Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13831-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2881-IND)
DECEMBER 27, 1994
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Banl; authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(as of June 1994)
US$1.00 =Rp2,020
Rp 1 million=US$495
(at time of appraisal)
US$1.00 =Rpl,650
Rp 1 million=US$606
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meters (m) =39.37inches
1 kilometer (kcm) =0.62miles
1 hectare (ha) =2.47acres
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ERR          -     Economic Rate of Return
GOI          -     Government of Indonesia
MPW          -     Ministry of Public Works
MHA          -     Ministry of Home Affairs
DGH          -     Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGRD         -     Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
DPUK         -     Kabupaten Ofrice of Public Works
DPUP         -     Provincial Office of Public Works
IRI          -     International Roughness Indicator for Roads
NPV          -     Net Present Value
PBPJK        -     Proyek Bantuan Peningkatan Jalan Kabupaten (special provincial
road units for assistance to local governments)
RR2          -     Second Rural Roads Development Project
VOC          -     Vehicle Operating Cost



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[LOAN 2881-IND]
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ............. i
Evaluation Summary .............  ii
Part I:          PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD PERSPECTIVE
Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives  .............................   I
Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................   2
Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................   7
Project Sustainability  ............................................   8
Bank Performance  ..............................................    8
Borrower Performance  ...........................................   9
Assessment of Outcome  ..........................................  10
Future Operation  ............           ...................................  11
Key Lessons Learned  ............................................  11
Part II:        SUPPORTING ANNEX & STATISTICAL TABLES  ......................  12
Annex 1:        Economic Re-evaluation of RR2  .......................    13
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments  .............................  15
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans/Credits  ...........................  16
Table 3:        Project Timetable  .........          .........................  16
Table 4:        Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated & Actual    .....  17
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation   .....       ............  17
Table 6:        Studies Included in Project ............................  17
Table 7A:       Project Costs  ...........          ..........................  18
Table 7B:       Project Financing   .........         .........................  18
Table 8:        Status of Legal Covenants  ............................  19
Table 9:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ..........................  20
Appendix A:    Borrower s Contribution to the ICR  ..........              ...............   21
Appendix B:    Map No. IBRDS 26492
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2881-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Rural Roads
Development Project (RR2) for which a loan of US$ 190 million equivalent to the Republic of
Indonesia was approved on December 3, 1987. The loan became effective in February 1988. The
loan was closed on June 30, 1994 after being extended from the original closing date of December
31, 199 1. Final disbursement took place in December 1994, with a balance of about US$ 14.6
million which remain to be canceled.
This ICR was prepared by Jacques Tollie and Aehyung Kim (EA3IN) and reviewed by
Anupam Khanna, Division Chief (EA3IN) and Richard Calkins, Operations Adviser (EA3DR).
Preparation of the ICR started during the Bank's final supervision mission in June 1994. This
ICR is based on information in the project file and data provided by the Government of Indonesia
(GOI). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of
the project which is included as Appendix A to the ICR.






ii
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.     The Bank's association with the transport sector in Indonesia has been quite extensive with
21 projects to date, of which 13 have been in roads and two each in support of rail, shipping, ports,
and fertilizer distribution. Five of the road projects have been in support of road network
improvement in kabupatens, or rural districts, and the project under review is the second in this
series. The PCR for the first Rural Roads Development Project (Loan 2083-IND) was issued in
November 1989. Three follow-up projects (Table 2) provided continued Bank support to the
kabupaten road subsector, a testimony to the importance attached by the Government to it for the
country's economic and social development.
Project Objectives
ii.    The objectives of the Second Rural Roads Development Project (RR2) as stated in the
October 1987 SAR were:
(a)    to improve management of district road programs in terms of (i) planning and
monitoring; (ii) design and construction standards; (iii) work supervision; and (iv)
maintenance, through institutional reform consisting of realignment of
responsibilities among the ministries and agencies concerned with district road
programs (including roads in transmigration areas);
(b)    to provide financial support for GOI's district road programs; and
(c)    to improve existing labor-based construction and maintenance techniques for such
roads and to introduce new and more appropriate techniques for this purpose.
iii.    To achieve these objectives, the project included the following components: (a) sector
policy improvement focussing on road planning and maintenance; (b) institutional reform and
strengthening through technical assistance, studies, training, and provision of specialized
equipment; and (c) a physical component consisting of a rehabilitation/improvement program and a
maintenance program for Kabupaten (district) roads (para 21 and Map in Appendix B).
iv.    The main loan covenants expected to promote achievement of these objectives required: (a)
carrying out institutional development in accordance with an Action Plan agreed with the Bank; (b)
issuing technical guidelines for planning, design, construction and supervision, as well as a detailed
maintenance strategy, at the start of the project; and (c) restructuring and strengthening the Project
Management Unit (PMU).
v.     These objectives were important for the country considering the rural sector's significant
economic contribution, as well as the balanced regional economic development pursued by the
Govenmment in order to promote the economic and social integration of the different regions. The
project's objectives were also in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy, concemed with
increasing efficiency in the use of resources. However the project was very complex and
demanding, and these objectives appear, in retrospect, to have been too ambitious (para 4).
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.    The project achieved its objectives to various degrees. One main achievement was to
improve sector policies (para 6) that would increase the efficiency of road management. Although



liii
this has not yet reached a fully satisfactory level, understanding of role and importance of sound
policies definitely increased in the sector. The improvements were mostly related to better planning
and, to a much lesser extent, maintenance. Another challenging objective aimed at addressing
several institutional deficiencies that were hampering the administration of the kabupaten road
programs. Progress under the Action Plan for institutional reform (para 10) was partial in view of
the somewhat optimistic timeframe for implementation. Institutional .strengthening (para 14) was
achieved, albeit with much delay, through technical assistance, studies, training, and provision of
specialized equipment. Achievement of physical objectives (para 21) was also mixed: substantial
for rehabilitation/improvement (about 7000 km as compared with an expected 6000 km), and
partial for maintenance (25%, 35%, and 60% of maintenance needs during the three-year program.
as compared with annual targets of 25%, 50%, and 100%).
vii.    An interesting featurc of RR2 was the benefit and road condition monitoring program
established at the start of the project. Data for calculating the ex post economic rate of return
(ERR) were extracted from this database, which showed that (i) construction quality as measured
by roughness was lower than expected; (ii) however subsequent maintenance did occur (this can be
ascribed to continuous Bank support under follow-up projects); and (iii) traffic growth was much
higher than expected. When re-evaluated, the overall ERR was estimated at 32% over a 10-13
year project life. This level slightly exceeds the ERR of 29% estimated at appraisal (para 25).
viii.   The project's sustainability is likely, taking account of the following factors: (a) renewed
borrower commitment and improved policy environment as regards dissemination of planning
methodologies, technical guidelines, and human resources development; and (b) economic viability,
as regards the rehabilitation/improvement component (para 32). The probability of achievements
being pursued is enhanced by the ongoing follow-up projects (Table 2).
ix.    Cost changes (para 30) affected individual components to various degrees, but globally
their impact was negligible: total project costs in US$ decreased by 4% (from 333 to 318.6 million)
and in rupiah increased by 9% (from 549.5 to 599 billion). Implementation delays (para 31) were
significant, requiring three extensions of the Loan closing date for a total of 2.5 years. This can be
explained by a combination of unrealistic implementation schedule and weak project management.
x.     The major factors that affected achievement of the project objectives were almost all
subject to government or agencies control (para 28). Factors subject to government control
included: (a) Government commitment, secured at appraisal with the issuance of MHA Instruction
of 1987 (para I 1), but not sustained enough to overcome the inertia of the sector (para 15); and (b)
streamlining of complex administrative procedures was insufficient, resulting in ambiguous and
sometimes conflicting instructions at the kabupaten level. The main factor subject to
implementing agencies 'control was management effectiveness, and weaknesses in this area
substantially limited achievements under the project.
xi.    Bank performance was satisfactory in the identification and preparation phases, leading
to a project design appropriate for achieving the objectives. However, during appraisal and
negotiations, more attention should have been paid to devising a careful phasing and staging of the
various actions in line with the absorptive capacity of the borrower and its agencies (para 35),
leading to a less than satisfactory rating for this phase. During implementation, problems were
adequately identified and assessed, culminating in 1990 in a thorough mid-term review. Progress
did improve during the second half of the project. Loan covenants were monitored and remedies
exercised. Bank performance during supervision was thus satisfactory.



iv
xii.    GOI's performance in proj ect preparation was satisfactory with respect to technical,
economic and institutional aspects. Stakeholder commitment was demonstrated in the MHA
Instruction of May 1987 (para 9). However implementation performance was deficient in several
areas: (a) insufficient numbers and quality of management and staff; (b) Government commitment
to operational decisions weakened in the course of implementation; (c) although the performance of
consultants was satisfactory, the effectiveness of TA was hampered by the inadequate
institutional/management setup; and (d) implementation monitoring suffered the same fate as the
other management activities, Nrith the further complication that the central system could not adapt
easily to the decentralization of payment. The latter was decided in the course of project
implementation, without ensuring first that appropriate communication and reporting procedures
were in place. This resulted not onlv in disbursement delays, but also in making it impossible to
reconcile all payment requests with required justification. Compliance with major loan covenants
and commitments was also less than satisfactory.
xiii.   The project was a demanding one (section A). It achieved most of its major objectives,
substantially or partially, and only a few had negligible achievements (section B). This was
achieved in spite of numerous factors negatively affecting the project (section C), which led to
mixed performance on the part of the Bank and the Borrower (sections E and F). The development
results were satisfactory (nationwide dissemination of planning procedures and technical
guidelines, satisfactory ERR), with a few shortcomings (low level of maintenance, incompleteness
of institutional reform). The latter are being addressed under follow-up projects, contributing to
the enhancement of the project's sustainability (section D). Overall the project's outcome is
considered satisfactory.
Summary of Findines, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
xiv.   The most important findings of the project implementation experience were that: (a)
upfront technical guidance to local governments was as important as their administrative
monitoring; (b) continuity of TA at the central level was essential to support effectively weak
project management and eventually led to a satisfactory project outcome; and (c) there is value in
balancing a lending program by following up an institutionally complex project with a series of
simpler projects to consolidate the achievements.
xv.    Appropriate arrangements were set up to ensure effective project operation (para 41) . In
addition a monitoring system was put in place, continuing the post-construction monitoring
established at the start of the project (para 25). These measures are supported under a series of
three follow-up projects (Table 2), each pursuing a limited number of objectives, but together
providing a wide geographical coverage and more leverage to achieve sector objectives and
sustainability.
xvi.   Experience under RR2 provided useful cautionary advice for future projects in the sector:
(a) project objectives should not be too ambitious: the goals should be realistic, specific and
achievable within a reasonable time; (b) in the medium term, project design should provide
intensive TA for monitoring at the central level and implementation at the regional level for this
type of operations: and (c) in the longer term, sustainability is determined not only by the quality of
the training and human resource development programs, but also by the adequacy of the incentives
that the central government uses in its budget systems to ensure that lower levels of government use
resources effectively.






I
Part 1. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD PERSPECTIVE
A. Statement/Evaluation of Project Obiectives
1.    The objectives of the Second Rural Roads Development Project (RR2) as stated in the
October 1987 SAR were:
(d)   to improve management of district road programs in terms of (i) planning and
monitoring; (ii) design and construction standards; (iii) work supervision; and (iv)
maintenance, through institutional reform consisting of realignment of
responsibilities among the ministries and agencies concerned with district road
programs (including roads in transmigration areas);
(e)   to provide financial support for GOI's district road programs; and
(f)   to improve existing labor-based construction and maintenance techniques for such
roads and to introduce new and more appropriate techniques for this purpose.
2.     These objectives were important for the country, considering that at the time of the
project design, the rural population comprised some 75% of Indonesia's total population, and
agriculture accounted for 25% of GDP and 50% of non-oil exports, as well as providing half of
total employment. In addition to the rural sector's significant economic contribution, Indonesia had
vigorously pursued "balanced regional economic development" in order to promote the economic
and social integration of the different regions. To reach this goal, the Govemment had emphasized
the adequate provision of transport in areas where roads were a major constraint on economic
development. The project's objectives were also in line with the Bank 's country assistance
strategy, concerned with increasing efficiency in the use of resources, and sector strategy, aimed at
maximizing the use of existing assets by ensuring adequate maintenance and quality of works on
the kabupaten road network (representing lengthwise about three quarter of the total indonesian
network). However these objectives may appear somewhat unrealistic, as can be seen from the
individual (para 3) as well as global (para 4) evaluation performed below.
3.     The three project objectives were indeed stated in order of priority. Thefirst objective
rightly emphazised institutional reform as the main venue for improving management of the
kabupaten road programs. This was one of the main lessons drawn from the experience under the
First Rural Roads Project (RR 1), which suffered from unclear alignment of responsibilities among
concemed agencies (para 9). However institutional reform alone could not be expected to bring
about the whole range of policy and institutional improvements that were looked for. It would have
been clearer, and less risky, to state institutional reform/strengthening as a main objective, not as a
means. The second objective was quite relevant to the needs as perceived during project
preparation: this was a time of strong budgetary constraints, and providing financial support to
GOI made sense. However the financial situation did improve in the second half of the project,
additional road programs were added outside the project, and the problem then became the
absorptive capacity of GOI to deal appropriately with large programs (para 38.b). To better
reflect the project's responsiveness to changes in borrower circumstances, the second objective,
dealing with the hardware part of the project, would have been better stated in terms of improving
accessibility to the main economic centers in the project kabupatens. The third objective, delicate
to implement, was rightly introduced as a pilot scheme.



2
4.     The project was undoubtedly complex, in terms of (i) the number of institutions involved
(Bappenas, the three ministries of Home Affairs, of Public Works, and of Finance, the local
Governments at provincial and district levels); (ii) the number of kabupatens (76) and their
geographic dispersion (see map attached); and (iii) the broad range of policy (economic and
technical) and institutional (through both reform and strengthening) improvements that were
expected. This complexity put heavy demands on the Borrower in terms of coordination as well as
on the agencies given their limited capabilities. In conclusion the project objectives appear to have
been too ambitious; although no formal modification was made during implementation, this was
aknowledged both after the mid-term review in 1990 (para 36) and during preparation of the
follow-up project in 1991.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives.
5.     An assessment of the achievement of project project objectives is provided below, based
on implementation experience, along three main headings: (i) sector policies, (ii) institutional
development, and (iii) physical objectives. Macroeconomic policies or financial objectives are not
applicable here. Only a few criteria for judging the project's output had been quantified in the
SAR: training under the institutional development objectives, and physical targets as well as
economic rate of return under the physical objectives. The other objectives relating to institutional
development or sector policies were certainly less amenable to quantification.
Bi.   Sector Policies.
6.     One of RR2's major achievements was to improve sector policies that would increase the
efficiency of road management. Although this did not reach yet a satisfactory level, understanding
of this issue increased in the sector, as compared with attitudes toward district roads management
prior to RR2. The improvements were mostly achieved through better planning and, to a lesser
extent, maintenance. RRl's Project Completion Report identified problems related with planning
and maintenance as one of its major shortcomings.
7.     Planning improvements were to be achieved through development of an appropriate
methodology and effective utilization of this methodology by kabupaten staff in selection of the
annual work program.. Prior to RR2, the methodology involved a ranking of projects by means of
two indices (a population index and a cultivated land index) within the zone affected by the road.
This approach was too sophisticated to be used by kabupaten staff, and programs were mostly
prepared by central consultants. Under RR2, a more transparent approach was adopted for
evaluating the economic feasibility of the annual work program, based on road user and time
savings. Surveys to collect basic data were instituted. If traffic levels were restricted by the
existing poor road conditions, the ERR calculation was supplemented by an estimate of the
population served by the road. The procedure, using centrally prepared "look-up" tables of benefit
per kilometer attributable to the road improvement, was simple enough to be used by kabupaten
staff, while retaining economic rigor and an acceptable level of accuracy. This approach was
adopted as a national one, and dissemination to all kabupatens was decided in the latter part of the
project. Thus achievement of the objective can be considered substantial.
8.     Maintenance.  Maintenance of kabupaten roads was diagnosed under RR1 as being
neglected due to the lack of awareness and technical knowledge at the local level. This in turn
could be traced to the inadequate institutional setup (para 9). To improve the level and quality of



3
maintenance, the project design included institutional reform and more specific measures such as:
(i) the preparation of a countrywide maintenance strategy for kabupaten roads to be ready at the
start of the project (February 1988), including technical and performance standards, intervention
levels, funding formulas based on needs and monitoring criteria; and (ii) for project kabupatens,
disbursement for rehabilitation/improvement would be contingent upon a satisfactory
implementation of the previous year's maintenance program. This design proved to be somewhat
unrealistic, in that there was no way that the maintenance strategy, a centerpiece for this
component, could be ready by the start of the project. Indeed a condition for preparation and
implementation of a satisfactory maintenance strategy was that enough progress be made under the
institutional component, which took a long time (para 11). Eventually it was not before 1991, i.e.
towards the end of the project, that a satisfactory maintenance strategy was established. In the
same vein, enforcement of the conditionality for disbursement could not be very strict because of
weaknesses in the institutional setup and the monitoring system. As a result, the quality of
maintenance programs did improve but only late in the project, and achievement of this objective
was only partial.
B2.   Institutional Development.
9.     This was one of the project's most challenging objectives, aimed at addressing several
institutional deficiencies that were hampering the administration of the kabupaten road programs.
At the central level, functions and responsibilities for kabupaten roads were not clearly defined
among concerned departments in MHA, MPW, MOF and Bappenas. At the provincial level, there
was little effective involvement in terms of guidance of the kabupaten road programs. In the
kabupatens, administrative and technical capabilities were weak in terms of numbers and
competence of staff and adequacy of procedures to execute the responsibilities assigned at this
level. To address these problems, the project design included (i) institutional reform in accordance
with an Action Plan (para 10) agreed at negotiations, and (ii) institutional strengthening through
technical assistance, training and studies (para 14). MHA had issued in May 1987 a Ministerial
Instruction for the realignment of roles and responsibilities, covering all aspects of the preparation,
execution and supervision of kabupaten roads in Indonesia, which was considered a satisfactory
basis for the expected improvements in the above areas. The project design was appropriate for
this component, although somewhat optimistic regarding the timeframe for implementation as
shown in various parts of the evaluation below.
10.   Institutional Reform.  The Action Plan for Institutional Reform dated September 1987
had a dual purpose: (i) in the short term, establish working relationships between Government
agencies to improve management of rural road programs in general and RR2 in particular; and (ii)
identify and implement further actions needed in areas of organization, staffing and training for
long term implementation of rural roads development.
11.    The short term focus on Central Level Management was based on the Project
Management Unit (PMU) set up to provide technically qualified staff to assist DGRD in managing
rural roads. However DGH and DGRD did not commit full-time staff to the PMU, and the latter's
role was limited to those activities not clearly within the scope of any structural agency. In the
course of the project, the Government abandoned the PMU concept in favor of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in each Ministry; however this did not solve the issue of coordination
between ministries, which persisted due to differing central perspectives on the agencies' roles.
For instance, what was a technical function to DGH was perceived as an administrative function



4
by DGRD and vice versa. Monitoring and control mechanisms also suffered from this confusion
(para 38). In the end, project management had to rely more intensively on the technical assistance
than was foreseen, and achievement of this objective was negligible.
12.    The short term focus on Regional Level Management was based on the expected
supportive role from the Provincial Works Agency (DPUP) to the Kabupaten Works Agency
(DPUK). The MHA Instruction of May 1987 proved to be too vague to really strengthen the
relationships between DPUP and DPUK: the Bupati (head of kabupaten), not the DPUP, had direct
control over DPUK. Efforts to achieve a balanced decentralization of tasks to the regional level
were also hampered by differing central perspectives: in general, DGRD strongly defended the
autonomy of the kabupatens, while DGH's attempts to increase quality control from outside the
kabupatens were seen as a reduction in autonomy. In any case the latter was a necessary evil
under the prevailing conditions, and indeed one important step leading to progress in this area was
the creation of the PBPJKs, special provincial units set up to provide assistance to DPUKs.
Another positive step was the assignment by DGH of about 400 newly graduated engineers to
DPUKs throughout Indonesia in an effort to provide concrete technical support to the kabupatens.
Although these initiatives hardly addressed the problem of manpower resource adequacy for the
sector (para 1 9),they were steps in the right direction. Achievement of this objective was thus
partial.
13.   Long term focus: Kabupaten Organization and Staffing. Work on organizational
structures focussed on DPUK units, since other projects like the Bank's Institutional Development
and Training Project were handling organizational aspects at the provincial level. Activities
included surveys of DPUK organizations, and analysis and evaluation of results. It appeared from
initial surveys that DPUK structures had evolved from the perceived needs and priorities in each
kabupaten, and had not been reconciled with any standard structure determined by the central
Government. More complete and extensive surveys and analyses were needed; however the Action
Plan, although requiring a very tight schedule, regarded this as a GOI responsibility and no funds
were provided in the Loan. Some progress could be made only after GOI made limited funds
available in October 1989, at mid-course of the project. A matrix of public works functions which
should be carried out by all kabupatens, regardless of organization structure, was developed and
became the basis of the Training Needs Surveys and Analysis (para 19). Some standardization and
rationalization of DPUK organizations (of course allowing flexibility within specified limits to
accommodate the unique requirements of individual kabupatens) were needed to overcome the
inertia of existing autonomous organizations, regulations, instructions and habits which were so
strong in this sector, with its history of almost twenty years of extreme decentralization. Under
RR2, the work was not completed, and the objective was only partially achieved.
14.   Institutional Strengthening.   Institutional strengthening aimed at improving efficiency
through improved planning, design and construction standards, work supervision, and maintenance.
This was supposed to be achieved through technical assistance, studies, training, and provision of
specialized equipment. Planning and maintenance aspects are dealt with in subsection B 1,
supervision in para 38. The following is concerned with the preparation of technical guidelines,
the labor-based pilot scheme, the two studies of local contractors and of roads built under
development schemes, training, and the equipping of laboratories and workshops.
15.    Preparation and dissemination of appropriate technical guidelines dealing with all aspects
of design and construction standards, were one of the main recommendations made under RRl to
address the problem of poor quality in kabupaten works. An extensive list of such guidelines



5
covering engineering surveys, general specifications, cost analysis, site supervision and quality
control, was provided in the SAR, and the Loan Agreement called for such guidelines to be issued
by February 1988, i.e. at the very start of the project. This was again unrealistic, since a
prerequisite was clarification and strengthening of project management arrangements, a protracted
process (para 11). Eleven technical guidelines of satisfactory quality were eventually produced
and issued during 1991 in the latter part of the project . The impact was of course limited as far as
civil works under the project are concerned, but otherwise, with a longer term perspective, the
impact could be considered essential since issuance of these guidelines was indeed a necessary
condition for improving quality in kabupaten works. Hence achievement of this objective was
substantial.
16.   Labor-based methods, at the lower end of the technology spectrum, presented a
considerable potential in quality and efficiency gains in a country like Indonesia. The project
aimed at introducing improved techniques, supervision methods, and organization for labor-based
construction and maintenance of district roads, through pilot schemes in four districts that might
later be replicated throughout Indonesia; with advisory services to be provided by the ILO.
Unfortunately negotiations of a contract agreement between GOI and the ILO proved to be a
complex and lengthy process, and the 27 month agreement was signed only in July 1992, with the
understanding that about half would be funded under RR2 and the remaining under a follow-up
project, the Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project. Other initiatives were taken by the field
consultants for implementation to improve existing labor-intensive methods, but globally
achievement of this objective was negligible under RR2 due to the late implementation of the ILO
contract (although a satisfactory outcome would be expected under the follow-up project).
17,   Two studies were included in the project to increase the technical capabilities of the
agencies involved. The first was to recommend measures to address the problems of the small
contractors used for work on kabupaten roads. This study was not conducted under RR2 because
(i) during the same period, GOI was involved in a similar study with assistance of the USAID, and
(ii) the Bank also was conducting in 1989/90 some sector work on the construction industry in
Indonesia. Both works provided useful recommendations which were used in follow-up projects,
but as far as RR2 is concerned achievement of this objective was negligible.
18.    The second study was concerned with establishing improved arrangements for handling
roads built under development schemes. The question was how to rationalize and improve the
incorporation of the growing network of roads serving transmigration and plantation schemes, into
the kabupaten roads system. The main findings of the study were (i) that institutional aspects were
far more important than the technical ones, and hence better coordination between MHA, MPW,
and the ministries of Transmigration and of Agriculture was warranted; and (ii) some
recommendations were made about the planning methodology to be used for evaluation of
feasibility of development roads, in particular through agricultural benefits studies. However a
formal action plan to deal with these issues, as required in the Loan Agreement, was not prepared
by GOI, and only part of those relating to MPW were implemented. Thus achievement of this
objective was only partial.
19.    Training was considered an important component under the project. The number of staff
trained were about 2,800 in-country, in upgraded training modules and with improved training
materials, and 100 in post graduate degree and specialist short courses overseas. This is to be
compared with targets of 2,000 and 100 respectively. It is also estimated that about 9,000 DPUK
staff received structured and ad hoc on-the-job training. About 400 staff were trained in



6
instructional methods. Qualitywise, implementation of this component suffered from (i) a lack of
systematic identification and analysis of training needs of kabupaten roads staff; (ii) little
relationship between trainee selection, training, assessment of outcome and performance and
personnel career management; and (iii) weak management, both centrally and at the local
Government level. Experience gained under this component led, towards the latter part of the
project, to the conduct of systematic Training Needs Surveys and Analyses which were a main
input in the preparation of the training component of the follow-up project. Achievement of this
objective was thus substantial.
20.    The equipment component had a dual purpose: (i) improving capacities of workshops in
the project kabupatens, including provision of fully equipped workshops and basic soils and
materials laboratories in districts where none existed, and additional facilities, tools and equipment
for existing workshops and laboratories; and (ii) strengthening these kabupatens 's rehabilitation
and maintenance capabilities by the provision of roadworks equipment. Quantitywise this
objective was met with the acquisition of equipment as initially agreed, as well as additional spare
parts as required during project implementation. However qualitywise the outcome was less
satisfactory: (i) provision was not done in a timely fashion because procurement was lengthy and
subsequent distribution from the central wharehouse in Jakarta to the kabupatens took an
inordinate amount of time; (ii) the specifications were not always met; and (iii) management of the
workshops themselves was inefficient, and guidelines issued for improving equipment and
workshops management were of little effect. This component suffered from the same weaknesses
in the institutional setup as the other institutional components, and achievement of this objective
was only partial.
B3.   Physical Objectives.
21.    The project included the following physical components: (a) financing of parts of the
annual roads rehabilitation/improvement programs for 1988/89-1990/91, totalling some 6,000 km
in the project kabupatens (see Map); and (b) financing of parts of the annual roads maintenance
programs for 1988/89-1990/91 in the same kabupatens, totalling approximately 4,500 km in the
first year, 10,000 km in the second year, and 19,000 km in the third year.
22.    Under the rehabilitation/improvement component, the annual target of the three-year
program was 2,000 km. Achievements were respectively 2,660 km, 1480 km, and 2,590 km, a
total of 6,730 km or 12% more than expected. However a technical audit conducted on the
occasion of the mid-term review revealed deficiencies in quality, quantity of materials, in
workmanship and shortcomings in detailed supervision. Partly as a result of that audit, the role of
the field consultants was clarified and strengthened, and quality of works improved slightly every
year during the course of the project.
23.    Under the maintenance component, the annual targets represented respectively about 25%,
50%. and 100% of the total maintenance needs of the project kabupatens during the three-year
program. Actual performance represented only 25%, 35%, and 60% in the respective years. The
reasons for this under-performance were (i) too sharp an increase in the annual targets (a doubling
of efforts every year!) in a situation where the understanding of maintenance was still poor, and (ii)
the lack of a clear maintenance strategy (para 8), which led to a confusion between routine and
periodic maintenance within the total maintenance effort.



7
24.   In early 1993, a fourth tranche of civil works was added upon GOI's request, to deal with
the 1993/94 programs in the 18 kabupatens of the provinces of Riau, South Kalimantan and East
Kalimantan (see Map), out of the balance of the RR2 Loan. This was seen as a bridging operation
to finance these works until a follow-up project, the Fifth Kabupaten Road Project, would start in
1994/95. The targets were set at 300 km of rehabilitation/improvement and 2,600 km of
maintenance (representing about 50% of the maintenance needs of these kabupatens).
Achievements were 307 km of rehabilitation/improvement and only 1280 km of maintenance. One
explanation for this low level of maintenance was that these kabupatens had never been assisted
before and needed to adapt to the new procedures put in place.
25.    The economic benefits of RR2 included savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger
joumey times following the road improvement. In calculating the ex post economic rate of return
(ERR), 38 sub-projects were selected from a pool of time-series data on traffic and road
conditions, stemming from a benefit and road condition monitoring program established at the start
of the project. The monitoring results showed that (i) construction quality as measured by
roughness was lower than expected (initial roughness of 8-9 instead of 6-7); (ii) however
subsequent maintenance did occur (this can be ascribed to continuous Bank support under follow-
up projects); and (iii) traffic growth was much higher than expected. The overall ERR of the
sample was reestimated at 32% over a 10-13 year project life. This slightly exceeds the ERR of
29% estimated at appraisal. Furthermore, the re-evaluated ERR far exceeds the ERR of 20% that
had been expected at the planning stage for the same 38 sub-projects. In terms of net present
value (NPV) per km, the re-evaluated NPV/km was estimated at Rp 117 million in 1994 prices
using a discount rate of 10%. In addition, a sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the impact
of different assumptions concerning the life of the project. Over a seven year project life, the ERR
was estimated at 25% (refer to Annex I for underlying assumptions and supporting analysis).
26.    Achievement of physical objectives was thus mixed: substantial for rehabilitation/
improvement and partial for maintenance.
27.    Environmental Concerns.    At the time of project appraisal, environmental
considerations were given relatively little attention, in part because the project emphasized
improvement of existing roads rather than new road construction, and in part reflecting limited
understanding of the issues. However, as the Borrower and the Bank leamed more about the
fragility of the natural habitat and environmental sustainability, informal procedures were adopted
to avoid unnecessary negative environmental effects. This improved understanding prepared the
ground for the formal environmental screening procedures of subsequent kabupaten road projects
(Table 2).
C.    Maior Factors Affectin2 the Proiect
28.    The major factors that affected achievement of the project objectives were almost all
subject to government or agencies control, and their impact was substantial, except for cost
changes. Factors subject to Government control included: (a) Government commitment; this
commitment was secured at appraisal with the issuance of MHA Instruction of 1987 (para 11), but
was not sustained enough to overcome the inertia of the sector (para 13); and (b) administrative
procedures; they were indeed complex, often unnecessarily so, resulting in ambiguous and
sometimes conflicting instructions at the kabupaten level.



8
29.    Factors subject to implementing agencies control included: (a) management effectiveness;
weaknesses in this area limited achievements under the Action Plan for Institutional Reform (para
10) and the maintenance strategy (para 8), two centerpieces for the project; (b) use of technical
assistance; this was not efficient (para 38), contributing to a lesser technical strengthening of the
kabupatens and to implementation delays; and (c) adequacy of monitoring and evaluation;
weaknesses in this area led to problems in financial auditing and disbursement (para 38).
30.    Two items were not totally subject to agencies control: cost changes and implementation
delays. Cost changes affected individual components to various degrees, but globally their impact
was negligible: total project costs in US$ decreased by 4% (from 333 to 318.6 million) and in
rupiah increased by 9% (from 549.5 to 599 billion). Changes in quantities were due to (i) actual
achievements under the physical objectives (paras 22-24), (ii) changes in project scale (increases
occurred for TA and decreases for training), and (iii) implementation delays (only a portion of the
ILO component was accounted for under RR2). Changes in financial terms were mostly due to
higher local inflation than forecast at appraisal (the rupiah depreciated by some 4% per year
during the period).
31.   Implementation delays were significant, requiring three extensions of the Loan closing
date for a total of 2.5 years. This can be explained by (i) incomplete project preparation (about 6
additional months would have been necessary for making more progress on the maintenance
strategy (para 8), the technical guidelines (para 15), and the definition of the Action Plan); (ii)
unrealistic implementation schedule (the initial closing date was set at 9 months after completion of
civil works, but another 6 months would have been needed for the other components); finally (iii)
weak project management was the reason for the remaining 1.5 year delay.
D.    Proiect Sustainability
32.    A few objectives were found to have been substantially achieved in section B above. For
these objectives, the likelihood of achievements being maintained is reasonable, taking account of
the following factors: (i) renewed borrower commitment and improved policy environment as
regards dissemination of planning methodologies, technical guidelines, and human resources
development; and (ii) economic viability, as regards the rehabilitation/improvement component.
These factors are less likely to come into play sufficiently for the other objectives whose
achievement was only partial or negligible (maintenance policy, institutional reform, equipment
management, labor-based methods). For those objectives, the probability of achievements being
pursued is enhanced by the ongoing follow-up projects (Table 2) that have the same purposes while
expanding the geographic coverage, thus increasing the leverage of project design and hence the
prospects for sustainability. Therefore, on balance the project's sustainability is likely.
E.    Bank Performance
33.   Identification. The project was identified in discussions between GOI and the Bank in
1985, at a time when implementation deficiencies under RRI became apparent. There was no
problem for the project to fit within the Government's development priorities and the Bank's
strategy for the country (para 2), the challenge was rather to incorporate the hard lessons of
experience. The Bank's performance in this area was satisfactory.
34.    Preparation.  The project was prepared by GOI with the support of consultants hired
under RRI . Bank's efforts were spent providing advice and recommendations on major aspects:



9
design (to achieve an appropriate balance between physical targets, long-term institutional
development and quality objectives); technical (stressing the need for a maintenance strategy and
technical guidelines); economic (to guide the shift from the zone-of-influence approach to traffic
based methods); and institutional (to ensure commitment for institutional reform). Bank's
assistance was satisfactory in terms of staff skill mix and continuity.
35.    Appraisal.           Appraisal took place in March 1987, with the assumption that
FY1987/88 would be the first year program to be financed by the project. Progress on the major
aspects mentioned above was uneven, and some were transformed into conditions of Board
presentation (technical guidelines) or effectiveness (PMU restructuring). The Bank rightly insisted
that Govemment commitment be formalized, with the result that the critical MHA Instruction (para
9) was eventually issued in May 1987. Experience under RRI was taken into account, but this led
to a complex design because all the objectives were maintained in the project. The financial
package proposed was appropriate, except for the lack of funding for long-term institutional action
plan (para 13). Also the problem of incentives to sustain the project was not looked at. During
negotiations in September 1987, it was agreed that (i) the project's first year would be 1988/89,
and (ii) the conditions for Board presentation or effectiveness would be transformed into Loan
covenants. However the implementation schedule for these as well as for the Action Plan remained
overly optimistic. The main deficiency was related to the assessment of risks, which failed to
recognize the difficulties faced by the agencies to overcome their serious managerial shortcomings
within the limited timeframe of the project, and failed to adopt a more cautious implementation
plan. On balance the Bank's performance in this area was less than satisfactory.
36.    Supervision.    The project was declared effective in February 1988, a perfect timing
for start-up in FY1988/89. However progress was very slow and delays appeared rapidly.
Implementation problems were adequately identified and assessed, culminating in 1990 in a
thorough mid-term review (two missions were needed, one routine and the second especially staffed
to deal with major issues previously identified). On this occasion the likely development impact
was discussed, and it was mentioned for the first time that the project's objectives might have been
too ambitious. Advice was given on remedial actions like updating of the Action Plan and follow-
up, conduct of technical audit and follow-up on recommendations, clarification of negotiation
issues between GOI and ILO, etc.. Progress did improve during the second half of the project.
Loan covenants were monitored and remedies exercised (for instance ineligible subprojects were
withdrawn from Loan financing). Staff showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed
modifications like extensions of TA contracts, adjustment of closing dates, agreement on a last
tranche of civil works (para 24). The latter was in accordance with Bank policies on the use of
savings for high priority activities consistent with the original objectives of the project. Over the
implementation period from February 1988 through June 30, 1994, the Bank's supervision effort
amounted to 97 staff weeks, including 17 supervision missions. The number of missions increased
substantially from RRI due to the larger scale in terms of project area and physical targets. Bank
performance in this area was satisfactory.
F.    Borrower Performance
37.    Preparation quality.  GOI performance in project preparation was satisfactory with
respect to the following aspects: technical (quality of the first year program was acceptable, but
there were delays in preparation of the technical guidelines), economic (the new planning
methodology was better adapted to the kabupaten context), and institutional (considerable effort
was spent to prepare the Action Plan). Stakeholder commitment was synthetized in the MHA



10
Instruction of May 1987 (para 9). In principle, the combination of the project as prepared, the
demonstrated commitment, and the agreed Action Plan, should have led to a highly satisfactory
outcome. But major factors impacting on the project (section C) prevented such outcome. This is
discussed below.
38.    Implementation performance.         GOI performance in implementation is closely
linked to the degree of achievement of project objectives as discussed in section B, since it has been
shown in section C that major factors affecting the project were mostly subject to Government
control. There are several reasons for deficient performance in this area:
(a)    Insufficient quantity/quality of management and staff: for instance there was no
full time PMU, no formal PIU, engineers were seconded to the DPUKs but they
lacked experience, and clarification on PBPJK role came late in the project;
(b)    Government commitment to operational decisions weakened in the course of
implementation, as witnessed by the little enforcement of the May 1987 MHA
Instruction, and delays in issuance of the maintenance strategy and the technical
guidelines. Also commitment to sound sector policies was weakened with the
decision to take advantage of new financing opportunities to double the 1990/91
betterment program (para 3), thereby stretching existing capabilities to their limit
at the expense of works quality;
(c)    Although the performance of consultants was satisfactory, the effectiveness of TA
was hampered by the inadequate institutional/management setup: (i) the PMU
Consultants did not work in a stable environment due to the confusion around the
PMU; and (ii) the three teams of Field Consultants could not fulfill all their tasks
until a late MHA instruction to Bupatis clarified their role, in November 1989.
(d)    Monitoring suffered the same fate as the other management activities, with the
further complication that the central system could not adapt easily to the
decentralization of payment. The latter was decided in the course of project
implementation, without ensuring first that appropriate communication and
reporting procedures were in place. This resulted not only in disbursement delays,
but also in the impossibility to reconcile all payment requests with required
justification (it is estimated that about US$10 million related to eligible
expenditures could not be disbursed under the Loan due to monitoring deficiencies
in the early years of the project).
39.    Compliance with major loan covenants and commitments was also less than satisfactory.
Out of 11 covenants, only one (on link eligibility) was in full compliance. Seven were complied
with after substantial delays (one on financial audit, five on implementation, one on training), and
three complied with only partially (one on PMU restructuring and two on the Action Plan).
Performance was mixed on procurement activities (acceptable for civil works and consultants
services but deficient for equipment as per para 20, and on studies (paras 17-18).
G.    Assessment of Outcome
40.    The project was a demanding one (section A). It achieved most of its major objectives,
substantially or partially, and only a few had negligible achievements (section B). This was



11
achieved in spite of numerous factors affecting negatively the project (section C), which led to
mixed performance on the part of the Bank and the Borrower (sections E and F). The project also
achieved satisfactory development results (nationwide dissemination of planning procedures and
technical guidelines, satisfactory ERR), with a few shortcomings (low level of maintenance,
incompleteness of institutional reform). The latter are addressed under follow-up projects,
contributing to the enhancement of the project's sustainability (section D). Overall the project's
outcome is considered satisfactory.
H.    Future Operation
41.    No formal plan of operation was established, however appropriate arrangements were put
in place to ensure effective project operation: (i) staffing and training of central and regional units
to enforce planning procedures and technical guidelines, and (ii) implementation of policies for
O&M of physical assets (roads as well as equipment).
42.    A monitoring system is in place, continuing the post-construction monitoring established at
the start of the project (para 25). Basic performance indicators like pavement condition and traffic
are monitored, with a dual purpose: (i) feedback on work quality and effectiveness of technical
guidelines, and (ii) regular assessment of development benefits.
43.    Measures under paras 41 and 42 above are supported under three follow-up projects
(Table 2), each focussing on a limited number of objectives, but together providing a wider
geographical coverage and more leverage to achieve the sector objectives. Considering this
innovative approach combining a complex project with a series of simpler follow-up projects, it is
recommended that an impact evaluation be performed by OED for the four projects as a whole,
after completion of the Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project expected in mid 1999.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
44.    Experience under RR2 provided useful cautionary advice for future projects in the sector:
(a)    project objectives should not be too ambitious: the goals should be realistic,
specific and achievable within a reasonable time;
(b)    it was recognised that technical guidance to local governments was as important as
their administrative monitoring; it is in this respect that the role of DGH was
upgraded in the follow-up projects;
(c)    for this type of operations in the medium term, project design should provide
intensive TA for monitoring at the central level and implementation at the regional
level; furthermore continuity of TA at the central level has been essential for the
project's satisfactory outcome; and
(d)    in the longer term, sustainability is affected by (i) the quality of the training
programs, and (ii) the adequacy of the incentives that the central Government uses
in its budget systems to ensure that lower levels of Government use resources
effectively.



12
Part II: Supporting Annex and Statistical Tables
Annex 1:      Economic Re-evaluation of RR2
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:     Project Costs
Table 7B:     Project Financing
Table 8:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs



13                                  Annex I
Economic re-evaluation of RR2
A simplified traffic-based methodology was used for estimating the main benefits of road
improvement: savings in vehicle operating operating cost (VOC) and passenger time cost of
normal and generated traffic including non-motorized traffic. Only the benefits related to the road
improvement component (which accounts for 57% of total project costs) were analyzed. The other
maintenance component (about 15% of total costs) was excluded when quantifying the project's
economic benefits. This is likely to lead to a conservative estimate of the ERR since with their
relatively small incremental cost, maintenance works have historically tended to generate higher
ERRs.
In assessing the net economic benefit in terms of ERR and NPV/km, a sample of 38 sub-
projects was selected from a pool of time series data on traffic and road conditions, collected for
benefit monitoring (BM)and post-construction monitoring (PCM). The BM was instituted in 1987
to annually monitor road conditions and traffic flows on a sample of 50 or so kabupatens covered
by the 1987 planning studies. The PCM was instituted in 1989 to bi-annually monitor the
pavement condition on a sample of 250 sub-projects. In order to create an overall representation of
RR2, the 38 sub-projects were selected based on the following criteria to include: (a) 1986 or 1987
study sub-projects covered by both a seven day traffic survey and PCM surveys, (b) other RR2
sub-projects with a seven day traffic count or 1993/94 monthly or automatic count data, but no
PCM data, and (c) other RR2 sub-projects with both PCM and BM (2 day) coverage. As a result,
the sampled sub-projects provided a reasonable range of traffic and surface condition in 38
kabupatens of Sumatra, Java, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara.
For the re-evaluation of economic benefits for RR2 betterment works, the following
assumptions were made by the project consultants (details are in Annex 4 to the Borrower's
contribution to the ICR, Appendix A): (a) the analysis period varied between 10 and 13 years after
initial betterment works, reflecting the variation in actual pavement performance up to 1993 or
1994; (b) the residual value of the project was estimated at 25% of initial works costs; (c) works
expenditures up to 1994 were based on actual contract or budget value and projections were made
thereafter, adjusting for periodic and routine maintenance intervention; (d) road roughness in the
international roughness indicator (IRI) scale is estimated "with" and "without" the project.
Actual survey data were used where available for the "with" case up to 1994 and projections were
made at a rate of deterioration of 10% a year in the "without" case. A maximum IRI of 30 was
adopted for gravel and earth and 35 of seal and stone/telford based on recent roughness surveys;
(e) base traffic levels and trends to 1993 were modeled from available survey data for four-wheel
vehicles, motorcycles and non-motorized traffic (mainly bicycles). Provision was made for
distinguishing between "normal" traffic growth and "generated" traffic. Up to 1994, "normal"
traffic growth was first limited to 7.5% growth (derived from current planning studies) and
estimates of "generated" traffic growth were based assuming a 1% increase in traffic for every
I % fall in transport costs. However, the share of normal and generated traffic was modified when
warranted by actual traffic data. Beyond 1994 a growth rate of 5% per annum was assumed for
"normal" traffic; (f) a simple VOC expression related to roughness was adopted from the HDM-
based assumptions recently developed for district roads as part of "macro-planning" work for the
follow-up district road projects; (g) traffic benefits were calculated from savings in VOC and
passenger time cost attributed bv the annual estimates of traffic and roughness "with" and
"without" the project. Generated VOC and time savings are valued at half the "normal" VOC
and time savings; and (h) the net cash flow stream of all costs and benefits was expressed in 1994
prices.



14                                    Annex I
From 1993 surveys, about 39% of the road sections have lcss than 100 vehicles per day
(vpd). 50% have between 100 and 500 vpd, and some 11% havc more than 500 vpd. Works on
85%No of the scctions comprised a 5cm penetration macadam overlay covering an aggregate base and
sub-base. The distribution of ex-post ERRs was as follows: 13%/o of the links have ERRs below
10%; 26%No of the links, ERRs between 10 and 20%; 30%/ of the links, ERRs between 20 and 40%;
and 31 % of the links have more than 40% ERR (refer to the below graph). The overall ERR is
32%. compared to the 20% ERR for the same sample of 38 sub-projects estimated at the planning
stage. This ex-post ERR slightly exceeds the expected ERR of 29% for 231 viable sub-projects
estimatcd at the time of appraisal. It should be noted that most of thesc 231 sub-projects were
implemented in 1987/88 with non-Bank funds due to a delay in the first year program of RR2 to
1988/89. Further planning studies were unidcrtaken in 1987 for the first vear program. Thus the
sample of 38 sub-projects was a mix of sub-projects studied in 1986 and 1987. In terms of net
present value (NPV) per km, the re-evaluated NPV/km was estimated at Rp. 117 million in 1994
prices assuming a 10% discount rate. The sample of 38 sub-projects cost approximately Rp. 28
billion for their initial works and yield a gross benefit of Rp. 69 billion in 1994 priccs, measured in
present value terms.
The increases in the re-evaluated estimatcs of the project's economic benefit stem from the
following reasons: (a) increases in the rate of traffic development from that predictcd at the
planning stage, (b) a few of the very high ERRs arise where the actual initial wiorks cost was
substantially lower than that assumed at planning, and (c) more realistic assumptions about the
development of roughness in the "without" case.
A sensitivity analysis was conducted to test the scnsitivity of the ERR to changes in the
project life. In some cases, roads may not last for the 10 years generally assumed due to poor
design and construction. Over only a seven year project life, the ERR was still estimated at 25%.
This scenario excludes much of the forecasting element of the re-cvaluation and is somewhat
unrealistic considering the current condition of RR2 roads, which continue to be supported under
two follow-up project: KR3 and KREI. The current road condition was evaluated as "fair" with
an average estimated IRI of 11 in 1993 based on the PCM: a considerable improvement over the
initial classification of road condition as "poor" with an estimated average IRI of 18.6 in 1987.
Thus, it is quite reasonable to expect that most RR2 roads will generate economic benefits over the
expected project life of 10- 13 years assumed in the re-evaluated estimates, a proof that follow-up
projects have had an impact on RR2s sustainability.
ERRs Distribution
0.35
0.3
0.25
0.2
0.15
&  0.1
0 05
0
'10        10 -20       20-40         >40
ERRs



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives                 Substantial           Partial            Neglittible         Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                                     -'4
Sector policies                                                                                           '4
Financial objectives                                             -4
Institutional development                    -                   '
Physical objectives                          4
Poverty reduction                                                -                                         4
Gender concerns                                                                                            '4
Other social objectives                                                                                    '4
Environmental objectives                                                                                  'A
Public sector management                                        '4
Private sector development                   -                   -                                         4
B. Proiect sustainability                      Likely                       Unlikely                        Uncertain
'4a/
C. Bank performance                            Highiy
satisfactory               Satisfactory                     Deficient
Identification                                                                 '4
Preparation assistance                                                          4
Appraisal                                                                                                        4 b/
Supervision                                                                    '4
Highly
D. Borrower performance                         satisfactory               Satisfactory                     Deficient
Preparation                                                                     '
Implementation                                                                                                  '4c/
Covenant compliance                                                                                             '4
Highly                                                        Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                       satisfactory     Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory        unsatisfactory
Notes:   a/ positive impacts of following projects.
b/ deficiencies in risk assessment.
c/ most factors affecting the project were subject to government control.



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loam'credit title                                             Purpose                   Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
Loan 2093-4ND                                 District Roads Improvement               1982                Completed
Rural Road Development P'roject               and Institutional Strenigthening
Following operations
Loan 3490-fND                                 Improve the Quality of' the District     1992                Active
Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project      Road Networks in Western Indonesia
an~ REnhance
an Lnh ance the Capabilities ofGOI
Agencies
Loan 3579-IND                                 Enhance the Capabilities of GOI          1993                Active
Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project     Agencies and Improve the Quality and
Capacity ot'District Road Network in
Eastern Indonesia
Loan 37320-IND                                                                          1994               Active
Filth Kabupaten Roads Development Project     Improve the Quality and Capacity ot'
the District Road Networks in Riau,
Maluku, and Central. East and South
Kalimantan Provinces
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                             Date planned                  Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                                                                   October 1985
Preparation                                                   January - October 1986        January - February 1987
Appraisal                                                        November 1986                   March 1987
Negotiations                                                        April 1987                  September 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
13oard presentation                                                 May 1987                   November 1987
Signing                                                             June 1987                   December 1987
Effectiveness                                                     August 1987                   February 1988
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if'applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release
(if applicable)
Project completion                                                 April 1991                     June 1994
Loan closing                                                     December 1991                    June 1994



17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88      FY89       FY90        FY91        FY92        FY93        FY94         FY95
Appraisal estimate                   2,000      75.000     130,000     170,000     190,000    0            0           0
Actual                               0          40,250    92,940       133,850     156,420     179.640     172,740      175.380
Actual as oof estimate              0          54         71          79          82          95          91          92
Date of final disbursement                                                                                             December
1994
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR
Estimated                              Actual
1. Institutional Development Objectives: Training      *   2,000 trainees in-countrv         *   2,800 in-country
(ICR para. 19)                                       *   100 in post-graduate degree and    .    100 overseas
short courses overseas           *   9,000 on-the-job training
2. Physical Objectives
a) road improvement targets (ICR para. 22                                                    7
6.000 km                              7,03  km
b) maintenance targets (ICR para. 23)                                                      25o, 35%6, 600o respectively
2504, 500o, 100%b of maintenance
needs during the 3-year program.
c) economic rate of return (ICR para. 25 and Annex 1)    29                               322%
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                       at appraisalbredefined              Status                 Impact of study
Study of Small Contractors     To improve the                         Completed, but      Not applicable
working on Kabupaten Roads    contribution'perlormance of             not under this
construction industry.,                project            (Refer to ICR para. 17)
Study of Roads Built under     To establish improved arrangement for    Completed         Recommendations were made, but
Development Schemes            handling roads serving transmigration                      only partially implemented.
and plantation schemes.
(Refer to ICR para. 1 8)



18
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)                  Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Local         Foreign                         Local         Foreign
Item                          costs          costs           Total          costs           costs         Total
Civil Works
Betterment'rehabilitation         107.7            55.2          162.9           113.1           66.4          179.5
Periodic Maintenance                17.8            9.2           27.0            11.6            6.8            18.4
Routine Maintenance                24.6            12.6           37.2            12.5            7.3            19.8
Workshop                            0.3             0.1            0.4             0.3            0.1             0.4
Subtotal                        150.4           77.1          227.5           137.5           80.6          218.1
Equipment                               7.1           51.7            588             5.9           43.5            49.4
Technical Assistance                   21.6           20 7            42.3           24.7            23.7           48.4
Trainint                                1.5            2.9             4.4            0.9             1.8            2.7
TOTAL            180.6           152.4          333.0          169.0           149.6          318.6
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)                Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Local        Foreign                         Local          Foreign
Source                   costs         costs         Total            costs           costs        Total
IB3RD                                     37.6         152.4         190.0               24.1         151.3        175.4
GOI contribution                         140.0             0         140.0              143.2             0        143.2
TOTAL                                   177.6         152.4          330               167.3         151.3        318.6



19
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Indonesia - Second Rural Road Development Project (Loarn 28810)
Ongi   Revis
Section        Co   Statu   nal       ed      Description of Covenant                             Comment
Ven   s       Fulfill  Fulfill
ant           ment   ment
typ           Date    Date
e
Art. 3.03      12   CP        03189           GOI to carry out instittutional development. In     Action plan was updated onlY once in May
accordance with action plan timetable satisfactory to  1990
Bank and to update timetable by March 31, 1989,
1990 and 1991
Art. 3.04 (A)    10   C                                                                           In compliance
Sub-projects shall be eligible for selection only if
located in a district which has implemented its road
maintenance and rehabilitation programs for the
preceding year in a satisfactory manner.
Art. 3.04 (A)    10   CD      02/88                                                               (i) Submitted on October 10, 1988
GOI to furnish by (i) February 29, 1933. (ii)      (ii) Submitted in March 1990
December 31, 1988. (iii) December 31, 1989 program  (iii) Submitted on Februarv 21, 1990.
of renl._yita.:,
improvement works for following FY prepared in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to Bank.
Art. 3.04 (B)    12   CP      02/88                                                               On-the-job training was carned out
CP                      GOI to furnish by (i) February 29, 1988. (ii) December   satisfactorily although action plan wvas not
CP                      31, 1988. (iii) December 31, 1989 action plan for on-    furnished.
the-job training of district staff in planning procedure.
Art. 3.05      12   CD        09/88           GOI to furnish satisfactory training programs for   Broad training program was prepared and
provincial and district staff by September 30, 1933.  partially updated several times A training
master plan was eventually is being
completed and implemented in follow-up
project.
Art. 3 06      10   CD       02/88            GOl to issue satisfactory technical guidelines for  Three guidelines submitted and approved
planning, design, construction and supervision of   by the Bank in October 1990  Eight more
works by February 29, 1988.                         guidelines were issued in December 1991.
Ail 3 07 (A)    10   CD       02/88   12/89   GOI to furnish a detailed maintenance strategy for  A detailed strategy and guidelines
district roads by February 29, 1988.               reflecting Bank comments to previous draft
documents was submitted in April 1991.
Revised in October 1991, and issued in
December 1991.
Art 3.07(B)    10    CD       02/88           GOI to submit by (i) February 29, 1988. (ii) December  (i) Submitted on October 10, 1988 but not
31, 1988. (iii) December 31, 1989 maintenance       satisfactory ex-post technical evaluation of
programs for following fiscal year based on agreed  maintenance programs showed most sub-
strategy.                                           projects to be of fair quality. (ui) Submitted
informally at end 1989. (iii) submitted in
June 1990.
\rt 3.08       5    CP                       GOI to restructure and strengthen PMU for district   Initial PMU was not operational. GO[ set
CP                      roads within MHA.                                    up alternative arrangements through PMU
CP                                                                           consultants. PMUC was largely involved in
CP                                                                           project monitoring and reporting.
.Art. 3 09     7    CP        3,89            GO to review problems of road components in        Review completed biii concrete proposals
CP                      development schemes and develop by March 31, 1989    not finalized  PartiN complied with.
proposals for addressing or avoiding such problems.
Art.           I    CD        12/89           G01 to submit reports of audits of records and      Complied on April 29, 1991 tor FY88-89
4 01(B)(I)                                    accounts for FY88-89. FY89-90 and FY90-91.          and FY89-90, and June 1992 for FY90-91
Status    C       - Complied with
CD       - Compliance after Delay
NC       - Not Complied with
SOON    - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP       - Complied with Partially
NYD      - Not Yet Due



20
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                              I'lanned                        Revised                         Actual
Project CN'cle                                       (Weeks)                         (Weeks)                        (Weeks)
Through Appraisal                                        60.0                            63.0                           64.3
AppraisaltBoard                                          10.0                            12.0                           15.6
Supervision                                             121.3                           159.0                          97.0
Completion                                                9.(                             9.0                            8.5
l oTrAl                                                200.3                           243.0                          195.4



21
Appendix A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Table of Contents
Part Al:    GOI EVALUATION REPORT
Loan Agreement
Overall Programme Implementation
Part A2:    SUPPORTING ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Physical Achievements
Annex 2:    Training and Development Plan, Final Report
(PMUC, June 1992)
Annex 3:    Engineering Guidelines
Annex 4:    Economic Re-evaluation of Sample Projects
(CTC, September 1994)
Annex 5:    Monitoring Data Sources
Nota Beiie:  The two volumes constituting Annexes 2 and 4 are available in the Asia
Information Center.






LOAN 2881 IND
SECOND  RURAL  ROAD  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT  (RR2)
GOI EVALUATION REPORT
LOAN AGREEMENT
1.   THE LOAN AGREEMENT required various actions and' improvements. Using
the tabulation in the Loan Agreement.
2.   PART A.  Improvement  and clarification  of  the  roles  and
responsibilities of the Borrower's agencies at National, Provincial
and District levels concerned with the Borrower's district roads
program. A new Provincial level project unit (PBPJK) was introduced
in 1989 to clarify Management. Payment administration was
decentralised from central to Provincial level in 1989. Otherwise
no changes were possible.
3.   PART B1 + B2. Improve and maintain approximately 6000 Km and 19000
Km of road respectively. This was achieved - see Annex 1.
4.   PART Cl + C2.  Improving capacities of workshops in about 78
districts, including provision of fully-equipped workshops and
basic soils and material testing laboratories where none existed,
and additional facilities, tools and equipment for existing
district workshops and laboratories. Improving capacities of about
78 districts to carry out efficiently routine works and maintenance
by providing equipment and spare parts. These were achieved.
5.   PART D. Introducing  improved techniques,  supervision and
organization for labor-based construction and maintenance of
district roads, by carrying out pilot schemes in four districts
with the intention of replicating such schemes throughout
Indonesia, and by providing equipment and tools for such pilot
schemes. The ILO pilot project suffered a late start due to delays
in achieving mutual understanding between GOI and ILO, so only the
ground work was laid during RR2.
6.   PART El and E2. Improving skills in planning, monitoring, design,
construction, supervision and maintenance of district roads and in
project management through: (a) in-country training (formal and on-
the-job) of about 2,000 provincial and district staff concerned
with district roads; and (b) advanced training of about 100 middle
and higher level provincial and district officials concerned with
dto-94/LOAtH2881                            1



district roads through the provision of overseas training.
Strengthening the Borrower's capabilities to carry out
institutional improvements and associated training programs, in
preparation of annual work programs and project administrative
staff to carry out such functions through the provision of
technical assistance. These two facets were achieved. The Final
Report on the Training and Development Plan which is at Annex 2
should be perused if further detail is required.
7.   PARr E3. Carr .nq cut a study to recommend measures to address the
prrohlemiis of smail contractors used for work on district roads, and
a study to improve arrangements for handling road components that
are part of development schemes through the provision of technical
assistance. The study of contractors was not included in any Terms
of Reference after the Bank decided it WdS not appropriate under
this Project. A Study of Roads in Development Schemes was done by
PMUC but Ministry of Transmigration was not involved, so only those
recommendations relating to MPW were implemented.
PARI F. Strengthening the Borrower's rehabilitation and maintenance
capabilities by the provision in a timely fashion, of items of
mechanical equipment. This was achieved.
OVERALL PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTATION
9.   A SIGNIFICANT BODY OF TECHNICAL GUIDELINES for kabupaten road and
bridge planning, design, construction and maintenance (as well as
those for equipment and workshop operations), was prepared by
BIPRAN, assisted by the PMUC Consultants from 1986 until 1992, and
in part implemented. The status of the engineering guidelines for
road and bridgeworks in January 1992 is summarised in Annex 3. New
General Conditions of Contract and Instructions to Bidders for road
betterment were also prepared by PMUC in early 1992.
10.  CONCLUSIONS ON TECHNICAL GUIDELINES are that their preparation by
discussion and debate with a floating team of BINA MARGA Engineers
seemed to be an inefficient means of proceeding. In the end,
perseverance by all participants has produced a mutually acceptable
result, although in places the guidelines show signs of the patchy
method of development. Attempts to speed up the process and
'settle" technical  guidelines by appointing a committee of BINA
MARGA staff to spend no more than 2 or 3 days on each, with
presentations by PMUC, did not produce the desired result except in
the case of bridge guidelines.
dto-94/LOAN2881                            2



11. AIM OF FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNICAL GUIDELINES AND
SPECIFICATIONS should be to improve the technical content and
coverage of the guidelines as an aid to improving the quality of
kabupaten roadworks by monitoring their introduction and reportly
on their effectiveness, refining their technical content based on
field experience, creating additional guidelines and
specifications, in particular to handle the challenge of regional
geophysical diversity within Indonesia, and by clearly separating
the technical guidelines for Kabupaten Roads from those for
National and Provincial Roads, due to the different physical nature
of the road networks, thus enabling less qualified kabupaten staff
to use the guidelines.
12.  THE TECHNICAL WRITING COMPONENT of PMUC services in 1991 identified
a comprehensive, integrated approach to the further development of
technical guidelines This component produced examples of existing
and rewritten guidelines and by means of a questionnaire identified
the likelihood of acceptance of the new and old models in a number
of areas. Because the present set of guidelines have developed in a
piecemeal way, it was necessary to establish a consistent layout
and structure of all guidelines based on the functions and
operations of the Rural Roads Programme, in order to lay the
foundations for- effective development of future guidelines.
1 .  FOR PLANNING METHlODOLOGY the PMUC used a conventional  economic
evaua or1,oneIW'1 based on road user savings; both the Indonesian
,ovet^-mert ai'  IP-D aoieed to this approach. This method was
practical givur the short amount of time available but was only
suitable for roads already carrying at least a moderate level of
traffic and could not be used as a general planning system.
Following this approach a set of planning procedures was developed
for general use and introduced at kabupaten level-during the early
part of the Rural Roads II Project. A basic requirement of the new
plannnirg process was to verify that an acceptable economic rate of
return ca;, be expected from each road project. Because kabupaten
roa3; vary widely in type and in tiraffic the planning process was
devised  to co)nsider links on an individual  basis with an
appropriate form of assessment used in each case. If traffic is
restricted by road condition, an estimate of the population served
by the road is used. The procedure for calculating benefits was
kept simple so that it could be applied by kabupaten level staff
but retained a direct connection with conventional economic
criteria and provided an acceptable level of accuracy. This was
done through the use of centrally prepared look-up tables of
dto-94/LOA112881                           3



benefit per kilometre attributable to road improvment to a pre-
determined standard. In the case of roads assessed on the basis of
existing traffic the main features of the appraisal methodology
implicit in the tables are :
-   Benefits are based on vehicle operating cost and passenger time
savings assuming a typical composition of vehicle types.
-   Benefits accrue to normal and generated traffic and from modal
diversion according to the present and proposed road condition
and traffic level.
-   Road maintenance savings are based on typical expenditure
patterns required for each road type.
-   Benefits accrue over 10 years, increasing at a constant growth
rate according to region.
-   Values are expressed in economic terms at constant base year
prices, discounted to present value.
In the case of roads where there is little or no traffic, benefits
are based on estimation of "suppressed" trips, the number of
expected trips that would be made if the road were in good
condition. Benefits are valued according to the difference in
costs, especially time costs, of making trips by motor vehicle
rather than by non-motorised transport. Parameters required from
surveys are :
- The population served by the road.
-  The average travel distance to a defined external activity
centre.
- The degree of access constraint of the existing road.
These two methods leave a residual number or projects which cannot
be accurately assessed using a generalised method, such as those
likely to have a major development impact or divert traffic from
other routes. For such projects non-standard or "special" studies
are carried out by a central team with a methodology appropriate to
each case. The methodologies of the standard traffic or population
based approaches were incorporated into a manual which was issued
to kabupatens under the title "Technical Guidelines - Planning and
Programming of Kabupaten Roads". It was realised that it was not
sufficient simply to issue a manual and a key feature of the
planning under Rural Roads II was sustained programme of training,
advice and support at kabupaten, and later at provincial, level.
Initally used in kabupatens receiving assistance from the IBRD the
maual was adopted by the Indonesian Government for general use and
in 1390 an Instru,^ion from Director General of Bina Marga (SK77)
vias '33'Jed  rec> ; -i     it to be used for the preparation of all
tabc.b- :fl :'ad   -ls5 ,rogrammes.
dtu-9    Lc.At:2   I                       4



14.  RE-EVALUATION OF THE COSTS AND BENEFITS WAS UNDERTAKEN. The report
in Annex 4 reviews and re-evaluates in economic terms a sample of
road sub-projects receiving betterment works under the Second IBRD
Rural Roads Project (RR2). It has been prepared from the evidence
of mon tcrring sur-vey data collected for 50 sub-projects since 1987.
The es 'sence s-uggests that almost ali the sub-projects now have a
significantly improved road state in spite of a more than doubling
of traffic. Wh,le there has been a very wide and unpredictable
range in outcome, the rate of return on the sample as a whole is
high and the RR2 works can be said to have met or exceeded
expectations formulated at planning stage. The detailed Report is
at Annex 4.
15.  POST-DESIGN REVIEW PROCEDURE. Following  the  experience with
ireligible projects in 1988/89, BINA MARGA asked PMUC in 1989 to
guarantee that after projects have been through  the planning
process, there should be no more doubts about their planning
eligibility for Bank assistance. PMUC replied that this could be
achieved by introducing a new 4 step process. In November 1989 PMUC
submitted a standard format (PEl) with examples and guidelines to
ensure that the steps were followed. They were applied in December
1989 - January  1990 and  in subsequent years by the Field
Consultants. They have become part of the  standard  project
preparation procedure which is proving satisfactory for planning
eligibility. Of course the normal engineering eligibility steps
take over when implementation commences.
16.  A MAINTENANCE STRATEGY was built upon that contained in the Staff
Appraisal Report of December 1987. This has culminated in
publication of technical guidelines for preparation and for
implementation of road maintenance works. Particular constraints
were faced due to GOI administrative procedures disallowing more
than one programme on one link in one year, and disallowing
maintenance before damage reached        certain levels. It should be
noted that significant confusion was caused by introduction of
ambiguous maintenance definitions on National and Provincial Roads.
The result of these ambiguous definitions in the National and
Provincial Road maintenance programmes was that unit costs could
not be used for budgeting or estimating, and could not be used for
kabupaten road maintenance estimates. Due to the mixing of routine
and periodic maintenance works (and major works) together, the
National and Provincial Road definitions could not be assimilated
with the Maintenance Strategy for kabupaten roads, where
definitions were clear.
17.  A STUDY ON MATERIALS AND METHODS FOR KABUPATEN ROADWORKS was
carried out by the PMUC under RR2 ("Technology Adaptation and
Dissemination") which identified increased efficiency, improved
quality and overall cost reduction of kabupaten roadworks which
dto-94/LOA112881                            5



should result from application of a number of existing technologies
not yet widely applied to kabupaten roads. The recommendations,
with details, are in the Staff Appraisal Report for KREI.
18.  TECHNICAL AUDIT AND POST-CONSTRUCTION MONITORING FOR RR2 was
carried out by the TAC early in the Second Rural Roads Project, on
major works projects selected from the 1988/89 programme in each of
51 kabupatens to become subject to Post-Construction Monitoring,
and follow-up surveys and photographs were made each at six monthly
intervals. Construction Projects from 1989/90 and 1990/91 were
added later. Some of those projects were subject to more detailed
investigation in late 1990 following an IBRD request for a
technical audit of completed and ongoing projects. Two reports were
prepared and the results summarized as follows. For pavements,
-    30% of pavement thicknesses were underdesigned
-    23% of base course failed the density test
-    23% of base courses failed the gradation test
-    47% of sub-bases failed the plasticity tests
and for penetration macadam,
-    average bitumen application rate was 50% of specified rates
-    application rates varied between 10% and 300% of specified
rates
Partly as a result of that audit, the role of the Field Consultants
has been upgraded from adviser under RR2 to supervisor under KR3,
and they will have facilities for conducting field tests to
oompleinsnt the vwr-k of kabupaten  laboratories.  Post-construction
mornto ir.-, iK >-uding technical audit,  is to provide feedback to
the c*-itra' Gluvernp.ent on quality of work and thereby on the
effectiveness of guidelines and guidance.  They were not intended
or used as a precondition for eligibility or payment for works.
Post-construction monitoring activities were also considered for
development for monitoring of environmental impact to fulfill GOI
regulations. Post-construction monitoring and technical audit
should continue to be part of a quality control process to provide
systematic evaluation of basic assumptions  underlying the civil
works programmes as a means of improving the quality and costs of
;Sabupaten roadworks.
19.  A LARGE NUMBER OF EQUIPMENT ITEMS is owned by the kabupatens (about
8,000 items in 76 RR2 kabupatens), many of which were procured
before the RR2 Project. Principal effort was therefore placed by
PMUC and the TAC on improving the management of the kabupatens'
existing fleets. This included implementation of procedures for
monitoring of inventory, condition, availability and utilization.
Procurement of new equipment under the RR2 Project was carried out
by the Equipment Directorate of BINA MARGA, who prepared
specifications and managed the procurement themselves.   In 1990
PMUC prepared a detailed report on the procurement based on reports
by TAC Mechanical Advisers, which detailed many instances of lack
dto-94/LoANl2881                            6



of compliance with specifications and poor workmanship.   Partly
because of the recommendations of that report, certification of new
equipment has been strengthened for the coming Bank-funded
Projects. Future IBRD equipment will be kept to a minimum. The
Government has approved the guidelines for kabupaten equipment and
workshop operations, which were developed by PMUC.
20. THE ILO PILOT SCHEME SERVICES CONTRACT was signed in late July 1992
between Bina Marga and ILO. This contract will run 27 months from
March 1994 to about May 1996. As this contract period extends past
the closing date for RR2,   the IBRD have agreed to fund the
remaining period of the project out of KREI funds.
Problems experienced with this project were
- Late Start. (March 1993)
-  Death of the Chief Technical Advisor in August 1993.
- The long period of time which elapsed before a new permanent
incumbent was mobilised.
- Difficulties in locating suitable links for studying because of
the prevalence of sealed roads in the 4 project kabupatens.
It would  be of assistance  if the ILO were allowed to operate on
village or Desa roads, not subject IBRD financing, where it should
be able to find gravel roads, earth roads and tracks.
22.  IN THE RR2 PROJECT, A CENTRAL MONITORING SYSTEM USING A COMPUTER
DATABASE was implemented which linked Planning, Projects,
Contracts, Progress, Payments and Disbursements, for the relevant
IBRD financed projects. The system and database were designed for
central operation since, at the start of the project, payments were
to be processed centrally. Central payment meant that accuracy of
information was most important if payments to contractors were to
be prompt and this was expected to be the incentive for accurate
and timely data. Over time, changes in GOI procedures and a general
lac' of consistency in data, caused the database system to be
stretched  in its ability to report accurately and to timetable.
Annexe 5 shows the scope cf the data originally indicated as
necessary for processing by the database system. Items marked "XX"
indicate data that was eventually processed. These were the least
difficult to obtain for processing and the maximum that could be
absorbed by the project's monitoring resources, given the quality
and consistency issues. During the RR2 project the following issues
became apparent
aLu-34, LOHii_ci5,                          7



- Authority for making payments for kabupaten road civil work was
delegated to the provinces and to banks other than the central
office of Bank Indonesia, without first ensuring adequate
reporting and inter-agency communication methods were in place.
Central agencies were consequently unable to adequately check
payments due to an inconsistent flow of information on contracts
and projects, especially in relation to amendments, addenda,
contractor changes etc.
- There has been a continual backlog of SPMs in Dit TUA during the
RR2 project resulting in disbursement delay. This agency has the
responsibility for checking items to be reimbursed from the
Special Account but has been unable to recognise the projects
covered by the SPM documents.
- Planning data (which is a major consideration in eligibility)
was in general of acceptable standard and consistency as it was
reported by centrally controlled Field Planning Advisers.
However deficiencies in planning data were caused by unreported
changes in planning priorities in the kabupatens which in turn
caused central data on planning priorities to become out of
date. The power exercised by the Bupatis was a significant
factor in the priority changes.
- Lack of rigorous procedures during RATEK allowed projects to
vary from planning studies. In the local environment these
changes were acceptable and from an administration viewpoint,
easily coped with. However, failure to recognise the importance
of upwards reporting of such changes caused a number of problems
for central agencies involved in monitoring, checking
eligibility and validating payments.
- Non standard and changing (from year to year) kabupaten roads
inventories together with inaccurate reporting by kabupaten
staff also led to problems for central agencies when reconciling
projects with planning eligibility data.
- The chain of communication in the RR2 project overall and the
still apparent lack of acceptance in many kabupatens of the
relative roles of the TAC and the Ministries of Home Affairs and
Public Works made monitoring potentially error prone. This
factor was not adequately compensated for within the RR2
monitoring processes but it has been recognised in the KR3 and
KREI Projects with the restating of FCI roles.
All the abov* points in the final analysis lead back to a
'communications- problem and the proposed approach for future
Monitoring seeks to avoid this major cause of problems by providing
a much higher level of two-way communication.
dto-94/LOA?288 1                           8



ANNEXE
RR2 PROJECT
Major Works and Betterment Lengths
1988/89 to 1990/91
1988/1989                            1989/1990                             1990/1991
PROVINCE      Major Work        Maintenance        Major Work        Maintenance         Ma jor Work       Maintenance
Kms   Av.Progr.   Kms   Av.Progr.   Kms   Av.Progr.   Kms   Av.Progr.   Kms   Av.Progr.    Kms   Av.Progr.
ACEH         331.5    98.86%   107.6       100%   234.3    98.51%   678.6   100.00%   305.6    92.69%    884.9   97.50%
SUMUJT       276.6   100.00%      926      100X   185.5   100.00%  1108.2   100.0Ox   445.8    96.05%   1804.9   99.28%
SUMBAR       361.3    99.94%   486.8       100%   106.3   100.00%  1087.6    92.50%   305.7    93.41%   1535.8   92.51%
JAMBI         89.2   100.00%   379.7       100%                      293.3    72.85%    70.8   100.00%        535  B8.79%
SUMSEL       221.6   100.00%   399.8       100%   181.1    97.68%      331   100.00%   134.9    78.00%    806.1   90.94%
BENGKULU                        407.1      100%                      101.1   100.00%    72.5   100.00%    287.9  100.00%
LAMPUNG         94   100.00%   150.9       100%    6a.7   100.00%   119.6   100.00%   112.1    88.40%    306.8  100.00%
1374.2    99.69%  2857.9       100X   775.9    99.01%  3719.4    96.57%  1447.4    92.69%   6161.4   95,42%
JABAR          464   100.00%  1555.8   100.00%   312.4   100.00%  1748.1   100.00%   622.1    97.77%   3554.3   9).42x
464   100.00%  1555.8   100.00%   312.4   100.00%   1748.1   100.00%    622.1    97.77%   3554.3   99.42%
NTT          250.4   100.00%                       132.1    87.63%     128   100.00%    187.3    53.97%
KALBAR       234.4   100.00%    86.8   100%   142.8   92.1B%   346.1   100.00%   145.1    86.8a%    523.9  100.00%
SULTE)33     337.2   100.00%   171.3   100.00%    114.8   100.00%   556.8   100.00%   189.5    99.53%    942.3   96.11%
822   100.00%   258.1   100.00%   389.1    93.04%  1030.9   100.00%   521.9    80.14%   1466.2   98.13%
_~~~~~~~~~0-% =  , -               ===       ---   c  ..  -                                                 I 
Total       2650.2    99.83%  4671.8   100.00%    1478    97.91%  649B.4    97.86%  2591.4    91.55%  11181.9   97.33X
G:\DTO-94\workprog



BRIDGING CIVIL WORKS FOR KR5
PHYSICAL PHYSICAL PROGRESS TO 31 MARCH 1994 (1993/94 PROGRAMME)
PROGRESS WORKS BY PROVINCE
BE-l ERMENT                      PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                 ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
PROVIrCE                        Actual                                Actual                               Actual
PROGRAMME    (iF-pGrted Projects)    PRCOGR'MF E    (Reported Projects)    PROGRAMME    (Reported Projects)
(Km)                 _                 -  _ (Km)                          (Km)
(Ksi)    % Complete            j    (Kin)| % Complete                     (Km)    % Complete
RIAU            81.40        81.40        98.00       54.00       54.00       100.00          .00         .00         .00
KALSEL         133.40       146.70        97.10      208.00       194.10       94.90      677.40      680.80       100.00
KALTIM          79.20        79.10        96.00      144.50      137.60       100.00      201.50       197.80      100.00
-- ~ ~~~~~~~~~ .                                                --     ________ _______   _____
TOTAL RR2      294.00       307.20         6.84      406.50      385.70        97.33      878.90      878.60       100.00
G: DTC-94/PHY
x



RURAL ROADS II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENGSNEERING GUIDELINES - STATUS REPORT JUNE  1992
DATE OF         REVIEW OF GUIDELINES                                TRANSLATION
LATEST                                          ENVIRONMENTAL
ITEII        NAME OF GUIDELINES             DRAFT          WORLD                              CONTROL          (BAHASA INDO-                   C 0 M M E N t S
(ENGLISH)         BANK             PIPRAN        REQUIREMENTS        NESIA)
GUIDELINES FOR THE PREPARAT-                    Recommended       Latest version Excluded by                              Refer to Foreword for changes made in
I    ION OF KABUPATEN ROAD MAINTE-   NOV.91    for issue and   Includes                  Government re-   January 1992    final draft. Forwarded to FCI and 1BRD
NANCE PROGRAMMES                                use in  6BRD      changes reqstd gulatlons                               Kabupatens March  1992.
Kabupatens.       by BAPPENAS
GUIDELINES FOR MAINTENANCE                      Draft sent        Special Group  Excluded by                              Generally accepted at Special Group
2    OF KABUPATEN BRIDGES                  DEC.91    24/9/9S            Meeting held   Government re-   December 1991   Meeting Oct.91
(Inspection and Maint.Works)                    Rev. July 91    10-li Oct.91    gulations
STANDARD DRAWINGS FCR DESIGN                    Draft sent        Special Group  Not necessary-                          Errors in cross reference and nomencla-
3    OF KABUPATEN ROADS                    DEC.91    24/9/90            Meeting held   refer to                March 1992      ture corrected. More dra1nage detail
Revised           10-11 Oct.91    Technical                              detail provided. Mitre drains revised.
July 91                            Guldelines (4)                  i    Design changes to retaining walls.
TECHNICAL GUIDCLINES FOR                        Previcus draft Special Grsup   Incorporated  in                          Guidelines extended ;o cover betterment
4     EIJG;NEERING SURVEY AND DESIGN   DEC.91   revised                 Meeting held   December 91                             and new construction.Acd;tional section.
OF KABUPATEN ROADS (with                        July 91           10-lI  Oct.91   draft                                   included for Traffic/Scil Surveys. All
separate Appendix-Uanual for                                                                             March 1992       tables checked against 3.M.and Internat-
GCP)                                                                                                                      ional Standards and drainage formula re-
vised. Also DCP manual redrafted to in-
clude two methods (P.tUC and Scala)
TE-hN!CAL GUIDELINES FOR                        Discusec          Special Group  In hand. To be                          Group Metting rec;;;r;ended that these
5     DESIGN OF KAOUPATEN BSIDGES                     JuI" ul           Meet:ing held    included  in         February 1992  Guidelines shculd be re-a;fted ny lid
(with separate Appe~dix for         Fec. 52   Nc :o~r7e5.nts  iC-11 Oct.91    draft for Jan.              . .            staff.  Redrating   re: e.
Standard Bridge Dravirgs)                                                           1992
G_EERAL SiEC!F!CAT!C!iS rFC                     C:'sL-_ ee        Spec.zl  Grcup  Inco.porated in                        Minor amenrder.ts madc, ard sec::ns fer
6                BARTAtEN BRIDGES          DEC.91      uy 91            Meeting held   December 91            December 1l991  concrete and reini*orcing steel  c-arage;
No comrments      10-I1  Oct.91    draft                                 to follow Road Specificatior.s
GENsERAL SPECIFICATICNS FOR                     To be reviewed Reviewed             Incorporated  in                      New specifications prepared fol owing
7     K;BUPATEN RGALS                      DEC.91    by W.5.            Jan.92 at        December 91           March 1992      standard format. Refere.nce made lC Bo,:K
5roup Meeting  draft                                   3-8ina Marga 89991 Works Sptc fications.
TECHNiCAL GUIDELINES FOR UNIT                   To be reviewed Committee con-                                            All main reccmnencat;ons  -r:Co.;rated ,n
9     RATE COST AIIALYSIS FCR KABU-    MAY 91   by W.B.                 vened for         Not required          May  19t2       the revised cos::ng sheetc  nocA  rep.,.'d
PATEN  RCAC WiORKS                                                rev;ew
20/22 Aug.91
CCS. AIIALYS;S FCP KABUPATEN                                                                                              Cost ana!ysis shects  in first or-:,ft n,:d
9     BRIDGE WOR(.S                        FEB.91      Pending           Pending          Not required           Pending        reviewing to match Bridge specifi:atc;rs
and to be comnparable aith cost in9 sneetts
prepared for Rcad works.
TECHNICAL GUIDELUNES FOR SITE                   Reviewed by WB Reviewed             Incorporated  In                     Guidel ines considered satisfactory  for
0   S5.."ERVISIJN AlD QUALITY CON-        DEC 91  WhB. Jul) 91    Jan.92 at             December 91          Februray  1992  general  reference - however there is a
TROL OF KABUPATEN RGAD ANO                      No comments       Group M.eeting  draft                                  need for more detailed field mar.als  to
BPlr-Gr CONSPIJCTIOII                                                                                                    be provided.                                            x
TEChNICAL GUIDELINES FOR                                                           Excluded by                           Final draft of these Guidelines  is comn-
11    IMPLEMENTATION OF KABUPATEN                     To be reviewed  Pending            Government            Aprii i992      patible w;th the revised GL. for Mar- 
ROAC MAIN EIIANCE.                  April 92  by 'World Bank                        regulations                           tenance Programmes (Item I above) xitih
aim of providing instruction t: A-cin/
Supervisory staff.
C:\DHT\ENGJUN92,FCD\as.01 11.94               NOTES (1) All guidelines except Cost Analysis for Kabupaten Brldgeworks  Issued to PBPJK In May 1992



Annex 5
IBRD Rural Roads 2 Project
Data Sources
Activity / Form                   GOI Level        Consultant       P.M.U.
Cen/Pro   Kab       PMUC    TAC   Mon.Sys.
1.  Planning Long Lists (PI. P2)                              x                 xx
2.  Planning Short List (P3)                                   x                 xx
3.  Kab. Select Projects (0.35)                       x
4.  Survey. Design and Costing                        x
S.  Certificate of Tender Documents                   x                 x        xx
6.  Kab. Prepare OURPs                                x
7.  Eligibility Review (PEI)                                   x        x        xx
B.  RAKORBANG & Pre-RATEK                    x        x
9.  RATEK                                    x
10.  SPABP and Attachments                   x
11.  Governor's Approval (KJ)                         x
12.  Tender Process                                    x
13.  Contract Documents                               x
14.  Contract Summary (CJI A & B)                      x                         xx
IS.  Physical Progress (El.E2.E3)                                       x        xx
16.  Physic & Finan Sunnary (DJI)                      x
17.  Berita Acara Documents                            x
18.  Berita Acara Sumnary                                                x
19.  Payment Applications (SPPP)                       x
20.  Payment Authorization (SPM)              x                 x                 xx
21.  Project Completion Certificates                                     x        xx
22.  Statement of Expenditure SCE             x                 x                 xx
23.  Special Account Statements               x
24.  Monthly Disbursement Record            IBRD                x                 xx



MAP SECTION






IBRDS 26492
'T--~.THAPLAND                                                                                                              12r 6l    i.  . /aJ  -
y                                                X  ? S                        9                 ", 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                        INDONESLA
SOUTH  C/NA  SEAO  PHI;IPPINES~ ~_SECOND RURAL ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_ zrUSOUTH  CHINA  SEA                 N                                                            7                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA   M                        7 >.                        BRUNEI 4,SS;                                                                                       NmaLPROJECaDWRICTS,.
_   * KUALA  LUWUJ   /./,                                   A' MALAYSIA  j        Cb                                        t            )                 g w   A CI      R Kh S    NCLUDED N 199292
I                                           r >                                                 2 _- ( < < C.I.b.s  Se. .
0 PEOYNaE CAPrrAL
i~~~~  2 ~  ~ ~~~~tTLPZT BaJLR4ARIES
SIN 'gr X                                                                                                                                         EGAPorE  PROV >   . Xa BOUNDAmEs
_                                       *.o,.od%'N    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  <52  - ~~~~~~~ INTERNATIC)Ai BCX*ARIES
:V ALMAH~ERA'                               PACIFIC
7 _C   t                              A                              _                                                       \       ;   D    v~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
4   t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~i~                                                                                                                        OCEAN
KEPULILAUNAN
JAWA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                             BURUC.,                                                IRN  A
fI    SULAEC RG     8   , 2
I               K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
:1 $UL.AWESJ YENGG*AEUTUN                                                                                                                      -                                                KNRNTEA
'3 KAUMANTAN lMUI
1t   r          15'                              1136                            lI~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  'r             12-413                                                            135.
"ItAT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~      ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 3 RIW



