Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L/Vl  S2 .f fS I  'N  12z
Report No. 6905-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 12, 1987
Country Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1987)
Currency Unit   = Rupjah (Rp)
US$1.00         = Rp 1,650
Rp 100          = US$0.06
Rp 1 million    = US$606
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UM?ITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             = 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)        = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)          = 2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB               -  Asian Development Bank
AADT              -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
BAPPEDA          -  District Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS         -  National Planning Agency
DGH              -  Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLT             -  Directorate General of Land Transport (MOC)
DGRD             -  Directorate General cf RegionaL Development (MHA)
DPUTK            -  Local government department of public works
DPUP             -  Provincial government department of public works
GOI              -  Government of Indonesia
ILO              -  International Labor Organization
INPRES           -  Central Government Grant to Local Governments
ITB              -  Institute of Technology, Bandung
P.T. Jasa Marga  -  Indonesian Toll Road Corporation
MHA              -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC              -  Ministry of Communications
MOF              -  Ministry of Finance
MPW              -  Ministry of Public Works
OECF              -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PMS              -  Pavement Management System
PMU              -  Project Management Unit
RBO              -  Regional Betterment Office (of DGH)
Repelita          -  Indonesian National Five Year Development Plan
SEKNEG           -  State Secretariat on Procurement Matters
SOE              -  Statement of Expenditures
UNDP             -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID            -  U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC              -  vehicle operating cost
Vpd              -  vehicles per day



1o0  OMCIL Use ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................   (i)
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Economic and Sector Setting.............,...................         1
B.  Government Sector and Subsector Objectives. ..................  l
C.  Government Sector Organization...............................        2
D.  Planning and Sector Expenditures............................         3
E.  Sector Performance.         ................... ,                    4
F.  Bank Goals and Strategy in the Sector.......................         4
G.  Experience Under Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects....         4
II.  THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.  Highway Network and Road Use..............................,          6
B. Road Transport Industry..................... ................         7
C.  Traffic and Transport Regulations.................,.e....            7
D.  Administration, Staff and Training, Accounts and Audits .....        8
E.  Planning, Design and Construction...........................    ll
F.  Road Maintenance.****,oe*ooos.oo..**#    14
.FnniG                              .... ,o.                            15
III. THE PMOJECT
A.  Project Origin ar.   Formulation..............................      17
B.  Objectives                        ......    17
C.  Project Scope ............... ..  ,  ...........................    18
D.  Rationale for Bank Involvemente............................         18
E.  Project Description...........       ..................... ....... ..    19
F. Cost Estimates                ............... .   .          ...    24
G.  Financing     .              ..........                             26
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia during February/March 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. Sigfus 0.
Sigfusson (Senior Engineer), Joris Van der Ven (Senior Economist) and Bertil
Nilsson (ILO, Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
H.  Implementation and Procurement ..............e............          27
I.*  Disbursements.. e0*....... ........e. .... . .. ... .. .. . .. ... . ..    28
J.  Accounts and Audis.                                                 29
K.  Project Monitoring and Progress Reportingorti.ng..... ......o    30
L.  Environmental A      s.e                     c      t      s        30
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries ........                                 31
B.  Annual Works Program Formulation..................... ......        32
C.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Calculationstoons,    32
D.  Special Evaluation Procedures.................. .........           33
E.  Overall Economic Rate of Returne....                                34
F.  Project Rissks.                                                     34
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION..........................         35
ANNEXES
1.   Project Districts and Their Road Networkst wo           r ks..*e...........  37
2.   Ministerial Instruction for Institutional Improvements and
Guidelines for Its Implementation ...................... *....        40
3.   Action Plan for Implementation of Institutional Reforms
for District Roads                                                    53
4.   Scope of Technical Guidelines....                                       54
5.   The Maintenance Program for Project Districts ance a Firit
Proposal for a Maintenance Strategy for District Roads ds.,..o.    57
6.  Labor-Intensive Pilot Scheme ...........                                 62
7.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Services       .>..........  71
8.   Project Management Unit .......     ...........    99
9.   Economic Evaluation ............. 990***99999999*999999*99**99* *.  106
10.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.......   118
TABLES
1.1  Transport Sector Allocations under National Development Plans...   119
2.1  Road Network Length by Island Group and by Functional and
Administrative Class, 1979/80 and 1984/85.*..******.***.. *.. .*   120
2.2  Summary of the Type and Condition of Pavements, 1984/85.....*.    121
2.3  Summary of the Type and Condition of Bridges, 1984******..****.*   122
2.4  Registered Motor Vehicles, 1974-84...........................          123
2.5  Growth in AADT in Indonesia, 1972-84 ....... *..0*0...........*.    124
2.6  Distribution of Traffic Count Results by Range of Motor Vehicle
Traffic in 40 Project Districts, 1986.*.......................   125
2.7  Average Traffic Composition by Modal Group in 40 Project
Districts, 1986.............                                       ................................ 126



- iii -
Pape No.
2.8 Average Traffic Composition by Modal Group and Road Condition
on District Roads in Java, Bali and NTB, 1986 .................   127
2.9  Expenditures in Highway Sector..................................   128
3.1  Design Standards for District Roads and Bridgeso................    132
3.2  Estimated Scope of Rehablitation/Improvement Works ..............   133
3.3  Equipment to be ................................................    134
3.4  Cost Etimates .............................. ...........................   135
3.5  Disbursement Schedule. .......... ....     ..................... ¢*.    136
CHARTS
2.1    Present Organization of Directorate General of Regional
Development (DORD)                            ............... .   137
2.1A   Future Organization of Directorate General of Regional
Development (DGRD) ...............                                 138
2.2    Organization of Directorate General of Highway.s (DGH)..H).....   139
2.3    Organization of Provincial Public Works Agency (DPUP)
in 13 Provinces...                                                 140
2.4    Organization of Provincial Public Works Agency (DPUP) in
5 Provinces  ........ Do#oo*ooo**ooooooooo    141
2.5    Organization of District Public Works Agencies..oci         es.........   142
MAP    IBRD 20238



- i -
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:        The 78 districts participating in the project
Amount:             US$190.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Purpose:            To reform and strengthen the institutions concerned with
district roads in Indonesia and to improve the condition
of these roads through rehabilitation and maintenance in
78 districts. The project will provide for: (a) insti-
tutional reform through realignment of responsibilities
for district roads programs among central, provincial and
district government agencies; (b) rehabilitation/
improvement of about 6,000 km of district roads;
(c) financing parts of a three-year program of maintenance
in the project districts; (d) a pilot scheme to improve
existing labor-based road construction and maintenance
methods and introduction of new techniques for this
purpose; (e) construction/rehabilitation of workshops and
laboratories; (f) equipment for construction and main-
tenance works, workshops and laboratories; (g) technical
assistance for project implementation, training and
studies of district roads contractors and road components
of development schemes; and (h) in-country and overseas
training.
Risks:              The main risks are slow implementation of the institu-
tional reform and of the improvements in program
formulation and implementation. The project includes
measures to minimize these risks.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                Local      Foreign        Total
-------- (US$ million) - --
Road rehabilitation/improvement             87.7        47.2         134.9
Road maintenance (routine and
periodic                                 35.2         17.3          52.5
Workshops                                    0.3         0.1           0.4
Equipment                                    6.7        47.7          54.4
Technical assistance                        17.9        17.1          35.0
Training                                     1.3         2.2           3.5
Base Cost                                 149.1        131.6         280.7
Physical contingencies                      14.3         8.4          22.7
Price contingencies                         17.2        12.4          29.6
Total Project Cost /a                180.6        152.4         333.0
Financing Plan:
Government                                143.0           -          143.0
IBRD                                       37.6        152.4         190.0
Total                                180.6        152.4         333.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY             1988      1989      1990         1991          1992
---…-…---- (US$ million)  …--------------
Annual              2           73        55           40            20
Cumulative          2           75       130          170           190
Economic Rate of Return:  29X (first year program)
Map: 20238
/a   Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$18.8 million equivalent.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic and Sector Setting
1.1       Indonesia, the world's largest archipelago nation, extends some
5,000 km across the equator and comprises several thousand islands; the more
important of these are Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi. The country is
endowed with considerable natural resources. Until the early 1970s agricul-
ture and forestry constituted the mainstay of the economy and were the main
source of foreign exchange. Oil assumed a more prominent position in the
economy when oil prices rose in 1974 and since then the economic situation has
been closely tied to developments in the oil mtLrket. In recent years the
Government has made efforts to broaden the manufacturing base and axport more
manufactured products. However, agriculture with a 25% share of the GDP,
remains the backbone of the economy. It provides employment to more than 50X
of the population and accounts fo= about 50% of non-oil exports.
1.2       The distribution of population and economic activities is very
uneven. High population densities, smallholder agriculture and a relatively
well-developed market economy are found on the islands of Js.val Bali and
Lombok and in some parts of Sumatra and Sulawesi. Estates and commercial
agriculture are prevalent in the relatively less populated areas of the larger
islands. Subsistence agriculture is still important in outlying areas of
Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. About 751 of the population lives in rural areas.
1.3       Transport flows consist mainly of exports of primary products,
imports of capital goods and consumer products and movement of intermediate
products and staple produce from surplus to consuming regions. In the rural
areas there are heavy farm-to-market flows. As the manufacturing base is
still relatively limited, there is as yet no large-scale exchange of manufac-
tured goods between regions. Some ten transport corridors, however, display
intense transport activity. These are mainly on Java and between Java and
selected points on the other main islands. Jakarta and Surabaya are the focal
points of transportation flows, Jakarta for the western part and Surabaya for
the eastern part of the nation. All transport modes--road, rail, shipping,
air and river--play a role in Indonesia's transport system, and they are more
often complementary to each other rather than competitive. With an estimated
share of 701 of cargo and 80% of passenger traffic, road transport, however,
is the dominant mode. In all parts of the courntry it plays a key role in
promoting ,he economic interchange between the rural and urban areas.  In view
of the archipelagic nature of the country, shipping and air transport are
critical for economic and political integration.
B. Government Sector and Subsector Objectives
1.4       The Government's objectives for transport emphasize:  developing
transport in line with the needs of the productive sectors; promoting the
economic and social integration of the different regions and fostering
national unity; opening up remote regions through the so-called pioneer
services; creating an integrated transport system; improving the reliability
and safety of transport services; and promoting efficiency in the various
modes and transport agencies.



- 2 -
1.5       In the early national development plans the focus was on upgrading
and developing the main road network and establishing pioneer services to
remote or poorly accessible areas. This was followed by greater emphasis on
expansion and modernization of facilities in the other subsectors, on district
road development and on rehabilitation of all road classes. Differences in
emphasis are to be noted between the Sumatra-Java-Bali-Lombok chain of
islands, which has a relatively complete network of land transport and ferry
links, and the other islands, which in general have lower population densities
and less complete transportation networks. Since the mid-1970s the Government
has also established many state enterprises in pursuit of social and/or equity
objectives; these have been given generous financial assistance. In recent
years, in line with increased emphasis on efficiency, the role of the private
sector and the need for introducing a commercial approach in state enterprises
have received more attention. Adequate maintenance of existing assets was not
accorded high priority in the past but is now being recognized as an important
objective and Bank finenced projects are assisting in introducing effective
maintenance programs.
1.6       The district (rural) roads improvement programs are seen as the main
instrument to draw rural and remote areas into the market economy, support
major transmigration schemes, and achieve equity and uecentralization objec-
tives by redistributing Central Government funds to the regions. The economic
and social importance of district roads is highlighted by the high percentage
of the population living in rural areas and by the relatively high traffic
volumes on district roads (mostly in the range of 50-200 vehicles/day). The
Government, recognizing the key role of district roads in the development of
the rural areas, initiated large-scale funding programs aimed at district road
improvement in the late 1970s. The first Rural Roads Development Project (Ln
2083-IND) provided funds to support this program.
C. Government Sector Organization
1.7       The organizational structure of the Government has both a functional
(line ministries) and a regional dimension. Government authority, however, is
essentially centralized: policy-making power is vested in the President and
his Cabinet. The main line ministries and agencies which have responsi-
bilities in transport--the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS),
the Ministry of Communications (MOC), the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) (for
the development and upkeep of national and provincial roads), and the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MHA) through the Directorate General of Regional Development
(DGRD) (for the development and upkeep of district roads)--are active both at
the national and regional government levels. The regional government has
three levels: the provinces; the districts and municipalities (Kabupaten and
Kotamadya); and the villages (Desa). The first two have some degree of
autonomy. Subject to the approval of the next higher level, they have some
regulatory powers. In addition, they can levy taxes and charges to supplement
the budgetary transfers from the Central Government, within the constraints
established by it. The province is headed by a governor, appointed by the
President and responsible to him, but he reports administratively to the
MHA. The governor coordinates the activities of the regional offices of all
Central Government line agencies represented at the provincial level. The
districts are headed by a bupati who is appointed by the Minister of the MHA,



- 3 -
on the advice of the provincial governor. The bupati is responsible for all
district government activities and is the only link between the district staff
and their counterparts in the provincial and Central Government organizations;
no formal organizational ties exist. The bupati reports directly to the
governor. In the highway sector, this institutional setup, which leaves the
district road officials largely on their own, has been detrimental to the
effectiveness of the district roads program (paras. 1.16, 2.14).
D. Planning and Sector Expenditures
1.8       Transport secLor planning responsibilities are shared by MOC, which
covers planning for air, land and sea transport and intermodal coordination;
MPW, which covers planning for highways; and BAPPE1NAS, which covers overall
coordination. MOC's central planning function is performed by the Bureau of
Planning (which is at echelon II level) under the Secretariat General. In
addition, there are planning divisions for air, land and sea transport (at
echelon III) in each of the modal directorates general of MOC. The planning
function for highways comes under the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of
HPW and is at directorate (echelon II) level and thus has been accorded a
higher status and role than is the case in the modal directorates of MOC. The
planning of district road investments is essentially the responsibility of the
districts themselves within the framework of overall guidelines and a funding
envelope for each district set by the Central Government. (Planning for
roads, district roads in particular, is discussed in Chapter II.)
1.9       Transport planning focusses on the five-year development plans and
the annual uudget cycle. The five-year plans were first introduced in 1969
and the current plan--thie fourth--covers the period FYs84-89. These plans
define broad development objectives and over time have become more explicit in
terms of physical targets for new investments. The plans, however, are
essentially static: while substantial resources are devoted to their initial
preparation there is only limited provision for mid-term or annual reviews/
updating or for rolling medium-term plans. Consequently, the annual tranches
of the plan tend to lose relevance during the middle and later years as
economic circumstances deviate from those underlying plan preparation.
Planning as part of the annual budget cycle focuses narrowly on individual
aevelopment projects and is weak in terms of priority ranking and overall
coordination of investments.
1.10      In absolute terms, allocations to transport under the successive
plans have continued to increase. The current plan allocated Rp 9,106 billion
to transport or 11.6X of total plan outlays. However, the share allocated to
transport has decreased gradually from an initial 17% in the first plan. In
the first two plans three-quarters of transport inves-.ments were allocated to
roads but in the last plan the share for roads was less than half
(Table 1.1). In parallel, within the road subsector the emphasis has shifted
from road construction to road betterment. In broad terms, these shifts
correspond to changing needs and intersectoral and intrasectoral priorities.



E. Sector Performance
1.11      Overall, the transport sector has been able to meet the rapidly
growing transport needs of the economy, but capacity bottlenecks exist on
particular links, and in certain parts of the country transport availability
remains poor. Efficiency in large segments of the sector--rail transport,
ports and shipping--is inadequate and costs are higher than they could be.
The causes of inefficient operations are numerous and partly relate to the
public enterprise status of many transport operators characterized by
ponderous bureaucratic procedures, Government interference in management and
poor accountability. Other causes can be found in excessive regulation, the
compartmentalization of markets, lack of effective competition and shortage of
managerial skills. The Government has recognized some of the main deficiences
and their causes and has initiated measures to remedy the most significant
problems, e.g., bold measures were taken in April 1985 to remove cumbersome
regulations in the maritime subsector. The ongoing ports and railway projects
support specific programs aimed at improving performance.
1.12      Even though the road transport industry is relatively efficient,
total road transport system costs are high due to three factors which have led
to rapidly deteriorating roads: (i) inadequate road design and construction
standards (for national and provincial roads this is now largely a problem of
the past); (ii) inadequate road maintenance; and (iii) vehicle overloading.
These problems are more pervasive and deepseated in the district roads
subsector than for national and provincial roads. However, the Government has
recognized the importance of both adequate initial standards and subsequent
maintenance and has made significant improvement in the composition of the
highway expenditure program. Continued improvements are necessary,
particularly for district roads, and will be supported under the proposed
project.
F. Bank Goals and Strategy in the Sector
1.13      The uncertain outlook for oil prices and the Government's weakened
budgetary situation underline the importance of measures to promote the
transition to a more diversified economy. Transport sector support for these
measures would principally aim at reducing transport costs and enhancing the
flexibility and responsiveness of transport services. The broad areas where
such improvements can and should be achieved are sufficiently clear, and
current projects focus on improving the efficiency in highway construction and
maintenance, in the ports sector and in railways. Bank sector work and
project supervision activities are directed at: (i) sharpening Bank knowledge
of sector performance as it is determined by Government policies and by
institutional or structural factors; (ii) identifying key needs and, in
collaboration with the Government, establishing programs of priority measures
which can be supported by Bank lending.
G. Experience under Previous Bank-Financed Highway Projects
1.14      The Bank has assisted Indonesia's transport sector through four
maritime projects (two shipping and two port projects), one railway project,
two fertilizer distribution projects and nine road projects. Beginning in



- 5 -
1969, the Bank has participated particularly in the road subsector: five
highway projects, a rural roads development project, a toll road project and
two highway maintenance/betterment projects. The nine highway loans and
credits total US$1,039.2 million (US$869.2 million for highways and US$85 mil-
lion each for rural roads and toll roads), an average of 10% of the annual
expenditures on roads. This average will increase in 1987 to about 15% and
then to about 20% when the Second Rural Roads Development Project becotmies
effective.
1.15      Of the nine road projects financed by the Bank, five have been
satisfactorily completed. Project Performance Audit reports have been
prepared for the first four, and a Project Completion Report is being prepared
for the fifth. The Project Performance Report for the Second and Third
Highway Projects (Sec. M81-4, dated January 6, 1981) found that the second
project had minor delays and cost overruns, while the third had significant
delays because of mobilization problems in a very remote area and unusually
wet weather and increased construction costs. The Project Completion Report,
dated June 15, 1984, for the fourth project found that: (i) construction
delays were significant (about two years), due mostly to the weak local
construction industry; (ii) cost overruns were minor; (iii) traffic increases
were much greater than expected at appraisal resulting in underdesigned works;
and (iv) maintenance was inadequate. The Highway Betterment Project
(Ln. 2404-IND) and the Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project (Ln. 2717-
IND) are progressing on schedule, and experience so far indicates that at the
central and provincial level, capacity for planning, designing and
implementing extensive highway programs has improved significantly in volume
and quality and further improvement is underway.
1.16      The experience with the ongoing Rural Roads Development Project (Ln
2083-IND; Closing Date December 31, 1987), on the other hand, has highlighted
several serious problems at district level, including weak planning and
monitoring, inadequate design and corqtruction standards, poor construction,
inefficient supervision, and lack of maintenance. All of these lead to very
short investment lives for the roads. Funding for maintenance was established
in 1984 (para. 2.31) and training of distriPt staff was carried out throughout
the project period (para. 2.17) but most of tale problems persisted until early
1986 when intensive discussions between the Bank and the GOI led to some
improvements through the setting up of a steering committee (para. 2.11);
these improvements were, however, limited to the 25 project districts. The
problems relate mostly to the complex and inadequate institutional setup:
neither the MHA as overall manager at the Central Government level nor the
district public works departments as implementing agencies at the lowest
echelon have the technical capabilities to plan and execute large district
road programs. The lessons learned from this project have been taken into
account in designing the proposed Second Rural Roads Development Project (see
Chapter III for details).



- 6 -
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. Highway Netwo.k and Road Use
2.1       Indonesia's road network has grown rapidly in recent years, from
126,100 km in 1979 to 205,000 km in 1985 (national roads: 12,400 kmi; provin-
cial roads:  39,000 km; district roads:  142,600 km; and municipal roads:
11,000 km; see Table 2.1). Although this growth occurred mainly in the
district roads (they increased from 78,500 km in 19{1 to 142,600 km in 1985),
it resulted more from absorption of existing roads -  into the category of
district roads than from new construction, which has been very limited
recently since the emphasis for all road classes has been on betterment and
rehabilitation. The road network will be reclassified and upgraded during the
next 2-3 years with assistance from ongoing Bank-financed projects. In 1985,
82,115 km of the total road network were reported paved; about half of them
were district roads. In general the condition of the network has improved
steadily since rehabilitation began in 1969, after 30 years of neglect.
However, many roads are still in poor condition. The information available on
district roads suggests that most are unmaintainable (Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
Furthermore, an estimated 70% of the national and provincial roads still need
rehabilitating.
2.2       In step with an annual average increase of about 14% in the motor
vehicle fleet (Table 2.4), road traffic has grown rapidly during the last 15
years especially during 1972-79 when the domestic price of fuel was low.
Growth rates vary considerably among provinces, but averaged about 13%
annually during 1972-84: 17% between 1972 and 1979 and a more modest rate of
3% from 1982 to 1984 (Table 2.5). The highest traffic flows are on approach
roads to the cities of Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung in Java, and Medan in
North Sumatra, where volumes range between 15,000 and 40,000 vehicles per day
(vpd). On Java major national roads typically carry 4,000-10,000 vpd and
provincial roads 1,000-4,000 vpd, on most of the other islands, typical
volumes are between 600 and 4,000 vpd.
2.3       Traffic on district roads is not counted systematically.  However,
counts available for a sizeable sample of roads from externally financed pre-
investment studies indicate wide variations in traffic levels between
provinces. Average annual daily traffio. (AADT) was estimated at about 160 vpd
on a sample of roads studied in early 1986 as part of the preparation for the
Second Rural Roads Development Project; the average for West Java was about
280 vpd as against 90 vpd for the outer islands (Table 2.6). In rural areas,
however, motor vehicles account for only a small fraction of total movements--
11% in the above sample period.  The remaining movements are non-motorized and
motorcycles--69% and 20% respectively in the sample.  Of the non-motorized
movements the largest part are pedestrians, with the balance being bicycles
and various forms of animal-drawn vehicles (Tables 2.7 and 2.8). These
figures underline the need to include in the economic evaluation of road
improvements their impact on non-motorized traffic.
1/   There are unknown lengths of village roads and other unclassified roads
in transmigration, estate and other development schemes.



2.4       Road traffic accidents are a serious socioeconomic problem in
Indonesia with about 11,000 fatalities reported annually. Studies financed
under previous highway projects have identified as causes: inadequacies in
the laws and regulations regarding vehicles and traffic and deficiencies in
their enforcement by the police. Measures to improve the situation are being
implemented under the Highway Betterment Project and the Highway Maintenance
and Betterment Project (see para. 2.9).
B. Road Transport Industry
2.5       An estimated 70% of all freight movements (ton/km) in Indonesia are
by roads. Surveys done in 1981 indicated that the share of the for-hire
trucking industry was 301 of the total; privately and publicly owned own
account operators had estimated shares of 45% and 25X, respectivelv. For-hire
operators outside the Jakarta region need a license issued by the level II
regional authorities; those within the region need one issued by the
Governor. The requirements for this license are minimal. In Java, but not in
the other islands, interprovincial road freight transport requires a route
license. In addition to licensing, trucking regulations cover restrictions on
operations in urban areas, weights and dimensions, vehicle inspections and
guideline tariffs for interprovincial transpurt. Many of these regulations
are not strictly enforced. Competition is intense in many submarkets, and
overall the industry is reasonably efficient. The supply and quality of
services are generally adequate; safety standards, however, are poor.
2.6       Buses are estimated to carry about 90% of passengers transported and
some 751 of the passenger-kms travelled. Intercity passenger transport is
provided primarily by private bus companies. PN DAMRI, the state-owned bus
company, provides most urban bus services outside of Jakarta, some interurban
services, and subsidired pioneer (perintis) services in remote areas where
operations are not commercially viable. Cooperatives, which are composed of
small operators who individually cannot meet minimum bus fleet size
requirements, provide short distance interurban, rural and urban services
using minibuses and microbuses. Bus transport is highly regulated; require-
ments and regulations cover availability of facilities, route licensing and
scheduling, fleet size and tariffs. Compliance with many of these regulations
and requirements is not well enforced. Tariffs generate adequate revenues for
interurban bus companies, while state-owned intraurban bus services are still
operated with substantial, but decreasing, subsidies since fares have been
gradually increased over the last few years.
C. Traffic and Transport Regulations
2.7       A new Road Traffic and Transport Law replacing the Highway Traffic
Law of 1933 was promulgated in 1965. It defines only the basic outlines of
the rules that govern the use of the road network. Since implementing
regulations were never issued, the regulations relating to the old law and
dating back to 1936 still apply. Moreover the provisions of these old
regulations have been subject to frequent amendments and refinement through
numerous decrees and regulations issued at various levels of government. This
has resulted in an ill defined and confusing body of regulations with
imprecise delineation of responsibilities which seriously hampers enforcement.



- 8 -
2.8       The above problems are particularly acute in the area of vehicle
axle weight controls. Full responsibility for on-the-road enforcement was
transferred recently from MOC's Directorate of Land Transport (DGLT) to the
police. Enforcement has been in a state of flux during the last few years
mostly because of the confusing status of the regulations, illegal fees, low
fines and the excessively restrictive and out-of-date legal axle load limits,
ranging from 1.5 tons to 8.0 tons. Random checking has been carried out at a
limited number of weighing stations, and DGLT's statistics show that overload-
ing has been significantly reduced. However, these findings conflict with
visual evidence and admissions from operators, so some verification of DGLT's
statistics is needed. It will be achieved during 1987 and 1988 by weigh-in-
motion measurements planned to supplement regular traffic counts for DGH's
pavement management system (para. 2.20). Furthermore, the Bank will review
with GOI its vehicle weight and axle load controls in connection with
revisions of the regulations for traffic and road transport (para. 2.9).
improvements in enforcement are expected to result from modernization of the
regulations.
2.9       Recommendations for modernizing and streamlining the legal framework
governing road traffic and transport have been prepared under various
studies.  GOI is presently developing comprehensive road transport legislation
consisting of four legal codes: the Highway Code, for the implementation of
the Road Law of 1980 which has been completed and was issued in 1985, and the
Traffic Code, Vehicle Code and Public and Commercial Road Transport Code.
Together these three would complete the legislation required to implement
adequately Road Traffic and Transport Law No. 3 of 1965. The Vehicle and
Traffic Codes have been drafted as part of the Highway Safety Program
(financed under the Fifth Highway Project) and are being reviewed by the
various ministries and agencies. MOC now intends to proceed with preparation
of the last component, the Public and Commercial Road Transport Code, and the
decrees and instructions required to implement the three other codes. The
Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project (Ln 2717-IND) is financing consult-
ants to assist the Government in drafting the remaining code and the decrees
and instructions required for implementation of all the codes. The Government
has committed itself under Ln 2717-IND to issue and implement the three
remaining codes no later than June 30, 1988.
D. Admii.istration, Staff and Training, Accounts and Audits
2.10      The highway network is administered by the public works agencies of
the various tiers of government in accordance with institutional and
functional responsibilities for the development and operation of highways.
These responsibilities were broadly defined in the Road Law of 1980 and its
implementation regulations of 1985. At the central level, the DGH has primary
responsibility for the road subsector (Chart 2.2). Road agencies at lower
levels are, respectively, the provincial public works departments (Dinas
Pekerjan Umum Propinsi-tMPUP) and the district/municipality public works
departments (Dinas Pekerjan Umum Kabupaten/Kotamadya-DPUK) (Charts 2.3, 2.4
and 2.5). An Indonesian Toll Roads Corporation, P.T. Jasa Marga, was
established in 1978 to develop and operate toll roads.



-9-
2.11      The DGH is responsible for the design and execution of most major
road works in Indonesia. It also coordinates the betterment, maintenance and
minor construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs and it operates
a national highway equipment pool.  In2the last few years, through the
Steering Committee for District Roads - and its Project Management Unit (PMU)
for externally assisted projects, DCH has become increasingly involved in
assisting with the management of the district road program funded through
Inpres Jalan (para. 2.35).
2.12      Provincial and district road agencies are part of a common system
under the DGRD in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) (Charts 2.1, 2.1A), which
is responsible, through the Governor, for regulating and monitoring the
governance of local authorities. It also controls appointments of their
senior officials, regulates staffing and salaries, reviews their development
plans, budgets and financial performance. For technical guidance, these road
agencies have access to DGH. However, in practice the application of this
system is ineffective because it gives rise to many subtle and complex
arrangements involving many interlocking relationships.
2.13      Theoretically, the various provincial p!lic works functions are
handled by separate departments within the DPUPs;-  for roads it is the Dinas
Bina Marga (DBM). These departments are being established in the large
provinces where administrative capabilities are well developed. In most other
provinces staff and equipment for the various DPUP functions will continue to
be shared until sufficient managerial skills are developed for effective
provincial highway management. In order to overcome the shortcomings in
highway management at the provincial level, DCH has established Regional
Betterment Offices (RBOs) which design and supervise highway betterment
schemes, Vt these will be phased out as provincial highway management
improves.,   Assistance in developing highway management skills at the provin-
cial level is being provided under the Highway Maintenance and Betterment
Project and further assistance, with specific focus on establishing permanent
technical liaison with the DPUKs, will be provided under the proposed project
(para. 3.17).
2.14      At the central level, functions and responsibilities for the
development and maintenance of district roads are not clearly defined among
2/   The committee consists of the Deputy Chairman for Economic Affairs,
BAPPENAS, as Chairman and the members: Deputy Chairman for Regional
Development, BAPPENAS; Directors General for Regional Development and for
Regional Autonomy, both in MHA; Director General of Highways in MPW; and
Director General for Budget in MOF.
3/   Reorganization is planned based on a Ministerial Instruction of October
1986. Some aspects are still unclear and the new structure will hardly
be in place until late 1988.
41   Some have been reorganized as semipermanent recently for they have been
given an echelon grading.



- 10 -
those departments in MHA, MPW and BAPPENAS which are concerned with these
roads. At the provincial and district levels, the principal organizations
associated with roads in conjunction with the DPUPs and DPUKs are the
Provincial Regional Planning Boards (BAPPEDA I), and the Development Bureaus
and the District Planning Boards (BAPPEDA II), of the Provincial and District
Secretariats, respectively. DPUPs report directly to the governor of the
province and DPUKs to the bupati of the district. The MPW provides the DPUPs
with technical direction and some administrative support and they act as the
implementing agencies for many of the Ministry's functions. Despite weak
capabilities, the districts have virtual control over their roads since there
is no direct line of communication between the DPUK and the DPUP and requests
for assistance from the DPUK must go through the bupati to the governor's
office and then to the DPUP. This complex and inadequate institutional setup
is the cause of most of the problems experienced in district roads development
and maintenance (para. 1.16). As a first step in resolving these problems,
GOI has issued a Ministerial Instruction for institutional reform for the
planning, programming, design, construction and maintenance of district roads
together with Guidelines for its implementation (para. 3.6). Furthermore, the
highest echelon officials in the district administration have recently heen
raised by one grade level, thus improving their career opportunities
significantly and removing a serious constraint in the development of the
capabilities of the districts.
2.15      At present, P.T. Jasa Marga's functions are effectively restricted
to the operation and maintenance of toll roads and bridges. Although its
charter provides for it to handle the development of the toll road network,
planning and design still remain in DCH.
2.16      In addition to the agencies mentioned above, other institutions are
involved in road development in the rural areas, particularly those concerned
with agricultural and transmigration schemes. The road components under these
schemes, however, are not adequately coordinated with the road authorities,
and their planning and implementation has suffered from many weaknesses. At
the planning stage, coordination between the Ministries of Agriculture and
Transmigration and the road authorities concerning network rationalization,
design and construction standards have been very poor or nonexistent; the
quality of the construction works has been deplorable and maintenance has also
been poor or nonexistent. As a result, these roads generally deteriorate to a
very critical state soon after completion. Moreover, Government policy is
that at the completion of these sphemes, the road infrastructure should, in
most cases, be handed over to the district authorities--only exceptionally, to
the provincial authorities. The district authorities are in most cases then
confronted with severe problems of reconstructing or rehabilitating these
roads, for which they are ill-prepared. The problem tends to be compounded by
the perception that these roads have lower priority than the existing district
roads. There is an urgent need, therefore, to institute improved arrangements
for handling the road components which are part of development schemes. For
this reason, the project includes a study to analyze and make recommendations
on: (a) design, construction, and maintenance standards for road components
of development schemes; (b) institutional responsibilities and processes for
programming, budgeting and implementing the road programs of development
schemes (including their maintenance); and (c) the process of transferring



- 11 -
these roads to district and provincial authorities, to ensure, inter alia,
that adequate funds would be budgetted for their maintenance and rehabilita-
tion, and the capabilities of local authorities would be upgraded as required
by their additional responsibilities. At negotiations, an agreement was
reached with GOI (a) on terms of reference for the study; and (b) that it
would be completed and submitted for the Bank's review no later than March 31,
1989. Its recommendations would be implemented, as appropriate, through
subsequent agricultuare or highway projects.
2.17      The steadily increasing volume of work and the quality of
engineering imposes strains on DGH as well as on the DPUPs and DPUKs.  The DCH
permanent staff has increased by some 10% annually over the last five years
while the number of nonpermanent employees has more than doubled over this
period. Total DGH staff now exceeds 8,000, 4,000 of whom are permanent.
About l1500 are professionals (about l,000 engineers). Despite substantial
efforts to expand and upgrade staff, the shortage of qualified personnel
remains an important problem for road authorities at all levels. Training
continues to be a major element in DCH manpower management through both MPW's
overall training activities and specific DCH programs, both of which have
trained several thousand DPUP and DPUK technical staff during the last five to
six years.  The MHA also has training programs for administrative functions,
and it occasionally conducts training in development planning for provincial
and district staff. The proposed project will provide for both classroom and
on-the-job training of DPUP and DPUK staff (paras. 3.17-3.20, 3.23).
2.18      The DGH's accounting procedures are adequate.  Accounts are audited
both internally and externally.  The MPW's Inspectorate General, which reports
directly to the Minister, does the internal auditing of DGH. The State
Auditors (BPKP) do the external auditing; these audits are satisfactory. The
Regional and Provincial Inspectorate of MHA audit the district and provincial
accounts internally; the BPKP does the external auditing.
E. Planning, Design and Construction
2.19      The DGH is directly responsible for the planning of national,
provincial, and toll roads, it plays an important role in urban road develop-
ment and it has a coordinating and advisory role for pl.nning the development
of district roads. The MPW's Directorate General of Human Settlement (Cipta
Karya) helps coordinate long-range planning of regional development, which is
carried out by MPW's various directorates.
2.20      The DGH's Directorate of Planning has improved its planning
capabilities through periodic data collection on traffic, including origin-
destination surveys and systematic annual road and bridge condition
inventories of all national and provincial roads. The planning methodologies
it applies for national and provincial roads are basically sound. Reliable
procedures have been developed for screening and ranking highway betterment
proposals. The Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project is assisting in the
establishment and operation of a pavement management system (PMS) for national
and provincial roads, its associated road inventory, and pavement condition
and traffic surveys, which will effectively integrate highway maintenance into
the planning process. This should provide DGH with the capability of



- 12 -
developing comprehensive strategies aimed at minimizing long-term transport
system costs and which are based on choices in respect of design standards for
improvement programs, of maintenance policies and of vehicle specifications
and axle load controls.
2.21      District officials have primary responsibility for planning of
district roadworks. Their approach is based on local knowledge and perceived
priorities, and does not involve extensive network surveys followed by
screening and ranking analyses. The advantages to this method are that the
time and resources required for planning are minimized and district autonomy
is fostered, However, there are clear disadvantages to this approach: a lack
of uniformity and rationality in planning; a much lower economic return of
investment funds than could otherwise be obtained; difficulty in central
monitoring and evaluation; and, slow development of district planning
capabilities.
2.22      Systematic planning for district roads began to receive attention
with the introSt-ion of the Inpres Jalan Program in 1979/80 (para. 2.35).
The external funding agencies (World Bank and ADB) supported early efforts to
initiate planning procedures based upon technical criteria. They required
that the road improvement programs they would finance be formulated using a
systematic planning procedure. In preparing these programs, several alterna-
tive forms of collaboration between Government staff (mainly from the
Subdirectorate of Rural Roads in DCH) and consultants were used. As part of
the first Rural Roads Development Project (RRI) a planning approach was
developed which attempted to reconcile the dual aims of ensuring that selected
road investments were economically justified without placing inordinate
demands on the planning resources required. The approach consisted of a
ranking procedure based on "zone of influence" criteria, namely a population
index (cost/head/km) and a land index (cost/hectare/km). An integral part of
the approach was a set of sample feasibility studies using conventional
economic analysis. These were designed to establish the cut-off values for
the indices which correspond to an ERR of 12X. A wanual outlining this
approach was prepared; it was intended to be used for the preparation of the
Second Rural Roads Development Project and eventually for the district roads
programs in general. Road planning studies for a Second Rural Roads
Development Project were undertaken in 1983-84 by the DGH planning staff and
district staff following the standard manual of procedures. The outcome of
these studies, however, did not provide a satisfactory basis for appraisal of
a project and in early 1986 the decision was made to start the project
preparation exercise over again using a modified approach that retained many
of the survey features from the manual of procedures but which complemented
these with systematic traffic counts which, once available, permit rapid
screening.
2.23      Thus, the first attempt at introducing systematic planning in
district road program formulation was not successful. Several factors
contributed to this. First, use of the manual posed difficulties not only
because the resources provided for training the district planning officials
had been inadequate but also because the approach required, inter alia,
considerable data to determine the zomnes of influence of the road links and
estimate population and cultivated land. Second, statistical analysis of the



- 13 -
results of the sample studies revealed that the relationship between the
population and cultivated land indices and the ERR was rather weak, thereby
casting doubt on the predictive value of the indices. Also, there has been
insufficient recognition, both at district and at Central Government level of
the benefits to be obtained from improved planning approaches. Finally, many
constraints have continued to hamper introduction of adequate planning, e.g.,
the budgeting system did not provide for timely availability of funds and
resources to carry out preliminary planning activities. These experiences in
district road planning have been taken into consideration in formulating the
planning approach to be used under the proposed project (paras. 4.5 and 4.6).
2.24      The DGH's design work is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning. With about 580 employees, including those of the nine RBOs, this
office has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a broad
range of highway and bridge construction and to supervise a large volume of
design work by consultants as well. Design work at the provincial and dis-
trict levels is the responsibility of the DBMs and DPUKs, respectively; these
departments have limited design capabilities, especially the DPUKs, so the
proposed project will provide assistance for improvements in the project
districts.
2.25      Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGH's three
Regional Operation Directorates for the national roads and some of the major
works on provincial highways; with DPUPs for the provincial roads and some of
the minor works on national roads; and with DPUKs for the district roads. The
works are executed under a variety of arrangements. Most typical for minor
construction is the use of small contractors who supply labor and local
materials but use equipment and manufactured materials supplied by the
respective road authority. Some ten years ago Indonesia had a relatively
small number of experienced contracting firms capable of executing major road
works, and therefore DGH used mainly foreign contractors for such jobs. Since
then local capability has developed so that there are now 250 "A" class (with
no upper limit of contract price) and several thousand "B" class (eligible to
bid on contracts up to Rp 500 million (US$300,000]) local contracting firms
registered in Indonesia. In addition, there are many thousands of small
contractors, registered as class "C" (eligibility ceiling of Rp 100 million
CUS$60,000]) mostly providing unskilled labor and production and transporta-
tion of materials for larger contractors and government agencies.
2.26      The GOI has long recognized the need to improve the capabilities of
local contractors and has provided assistance by arranging short-term lending
to small- and medium-sized firms at concessional rates and by training con-
tractors' personnel. Previous and ongoing highway projects have provided
limited technical assistance for contractors engaged on road works. The long-
range development of Indonesia's construction industry was the subject of a
study sponsored by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization
(UNIDO) in 1976-77. In addition, the Bank undertook a sector review in 1981
identifying problems in the construction, legal, and regulatory fields; this
review was updated in 1985. The Bank is discussing with GOI the further
development of the industry with the main focus on: (i) revision and easing
of GOI regulations regarding the industry; (ii) improving support institutions
such as MPW's Construction Industry Development Bureau and the business



- 14 -
associations; (iii) improved availability of credit and equipment to local
contractors; and (iv) better organization and management of enterprises.
F. Road Maintenance
2.27      The DBMs are responsible for maintenance of the national and
provincial roads. Recent studies have found that during the past several
years only a part of the national and provincial roads network has received
some maintenance, and most of that was inadequate. The DGH records indicate
that at the end of 1984 about two thirds of the network was still in unmain-
tainable condition. The studies also found that routine maintenance is
performed unevenly and inadequately and that periodic maintenance is
essentially not carried out, consequently accelerating the deterioration of
the roads and shortening their life. Furthermore, in spite of reduced
allocations during the last few years, physical construction targets have
remained virtually unchanged with the unfortunate consequence that DGH
designed some road betterment works for a life of only five years or less,
thus straining future maintenance efforts still further.
2.28      One of the main reasons for the lack of maintenance has been
inadequate funding. In addition, studies have identified many deficiencies in
the organization, administration and execution of road maintenance of all
classes: (i) through organizational changes during the last three years,
DGH's responsibilities for maintenance have been combined with those for other
functions thus diffusing the required attention (and diluting the efforts of
technical assistance) but also creating an overlap of duties; (ii) excessive
resources are inefficiently devoted to collecting and processing information
and to planning, programming and budgeting; (iii) excessively detailed and
rigid budget allocations; (iv) long delays (up to six months) in the release
of funds to the executing unit after the budget has been approved, which
results in most works being carried out during the wet season; (v) classroom
training of staff is ineffective (attendance is decided mostly by rank rather
than need) and very little on-the-job training takes place; (vi) shortage and
uneven distribution of strategic materials such as asphalt; (vii) extremely
cumbersome procurement procedures, even for very minor expenditures;
(viii) inadequate equipment with inadequate maintenance and lacking deployment
procedures; and (ix) inadequate supervision and monitoring of output but
excessive financial control. Improvement programs are being carried out under
ongoing highway projects to address these deficiencies with respect to
national and provincial roads.
2.29      To further improve and rationalize the planning and execution of
periodic maintenance/rehabilitation/betterment, DGH has employed consultants
under ongoing highway projects to prepare and establish a Pavement Management
System (PMS) for the national and provincial roads in all of the country's 27
provinces to analyze on a regular basis the status of the network and estimate
the costs involved in its maintenance and upgrading. Design of the basic
system is complete and its installation, including a new inventory system,
traffic counting and condition surveys and associated maintenance strategy and
standards, is expected to be completed in all provinces by the end of 1988.



- 15 -
2.30      In addition to the problems caused by the inadequate institutional
setup (para. 1.16), district roads maintenance, the responsibility of the
DPUKs, has been hampered by the same factors described above for national and
provincial roads, and by lack of information on the extent of the maintenance
problem with the result that it has been largely neglected, particularly
routine maintenance which is virtually nonexistent. A ministerial instruction
establishing maintenance funding as 25% of annual Inpres Kabupaten funds was
issued in 1984 but has had little effect. Ongoing efforts to improve main-
tenance of national and provincial roads will also benefit district roads
indirectly, but will not be sufficient to achieve rapid improvement. The pro-
posed project therefore includes specific measures to strengthen maintenance
of district roads (para. 3.10).
C. Financing
2.31      While funding for all road classes comes almost exclusively from the
Central Government, different funding channels are used. All roadworks on the
national road network are financed through the Central Government budget
allocation to DCH under the development (APBN) budget. For provincial roads
there are four funding channels or sources: (i) a part of the Central
Government budget allocation to DGH; (ii) a Central Government grant to the
provinces made specifically for provincial roads programs; (iii) part of a
general purpose Central Government grant to the provinces; and (iv) provincial
revenues. For district roads there are three funding channels/sources: (i) a
Central Government grant to the district made specifically for district roads
programs (Inpres Jalan); (ii) part of a general purpose Central Government
grant to the districts (Inpres Kabupaten); and (iii) the district's own
revenues. For toll roads there are three funding sources: (i) part of the
Central Government's allocation to DGH under the development budget to finance
land acquisition; (ii) bond issues; and (iii) toll revenue. The domestic
funds mentioned above are supplemented by external funds from lending
agencies, which over time have contributed an increasing share of the total
expenditures (from 19% in FY82/83 to 40% in FY86/87 (Table 2.9).
2.32      During the period FYs82/83-86/87, total expenditures have increased
in steps, first in FY84/85 and then in FY86/87. Even though in nominal terms
the total level of expenditures was considerably higher in FY86/87, in real
terms there has been no increase since FY82/83. Only expenditures on toll
roads registered an increase in real terms. In the process their share in
total expenditures increased from 7% to 16%. Expenditures on district roads
remained stationary for four years and increased very substantially in
FY86/87, but compared to FY82/83 their share in the total increased only
marginally from 31.7% to 33.5%. Expenditures on national and provincial roads
increased modestly in nominal terms but their share in the total declined from
65.7% to 54.5%. Provincial roads registered a decline even in nominal
terms.
2.33      An analysis by type of expenditure is somewhat complicated as Bina
Marga's work activity nomenclature is different from that generally used else-
where. However, focusing on the more clearly identifiable activities it is
apparent that since FY84/85 expenditures on new construction of national and
provincial roads are not increasing while expenditures on rehabilitation and



- 16 -
maintenance have increased substantially (albeit from a low start) and now
appear set to continue to increase. In the case of district roads,
maintenance expenditure also increased substantially in FY84/85.
2.34      The budget for FY87V88 would indicate that the shift in emphasis
from new construction to maintenance is firmly established. In the future,
increasing attention will have to be paid to the relative priority of the
various road classes and work activities and, toward this end, the programs to
be financed under the proposed project will be establistied in the context of a
balanced highway sector expenditure plan. In addition, the efforts to
strengthen the central planning capabilities at DGH should be vigorously
pursued. The Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project (Ln 2717-IND)
provides assistance to DGH's Planning Directorate for this purpose.
2.35      Funding for district roads was established on a systematic basis
with the introduction of tht Inpres (Presidential Instruction) grant programs
to district administrations in the early 1970s. The first program, the Inpres
Kabupaten, is a a general purpose program and is determined on a per capita
basis. The districts have traditionally allocated between 60% and 80% of
their total grant to roads and bridges. The second funding program, Inpres
Jalan, is earmarked solely for roadworks, mainly in districts outside Java and
Bali. The two Inpres funds together provided an annual budget of about Rp 250
billion in ?Y85/86 and FY86/87 (approximately US$155 million). By the year
1990, some 195 districts out of a national total of 246 districts are expected
to have received some form of assistance from four external funding sources
(para. 3.1). So far, external funds have been channelled through Inpres
Jalan. Foreign financing of district road works reached Rp 35.5 billion in
FY86-87, more than 20% of the total.
2.36      In FY80/81 road users contributed only some 43% of road-related
expenditures through various taxes and duties. The issue of inadequate cost
recovery in the road subsector has received considerable attention in the
context of the Bank's policy dialogue on the sector. Since then GOI has taken
several measures to increase road user taxation, including increases in fuel
and vehicle taxes, with the result that between FY80/81 and FY85/86 revenues
from road users increased five-fold. In FY85/86 road user revenues are
estimated to have covered 114% of road related expenditures. However, taxes
on the different categories of users are not in line with the cost they impose
on the road system. While the major proportion of revenues are generated by
gasoline-powered private vehicles, much of the expenditure is attributable to
the needs and damage caused by heavy vehicles. The GOI is committed to
monitor this question and to bring about further improvements in road user
charges (Ln. 2404-IND).



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.1       Improvements in the condition of district roads is essential in view
of their economic and social importance since 75Z of the population lives in
rural areas, and agriculture accounts for some 25% of GDP. The Government
recognizes the need for urgent improvement and is allocating considerable
resources for this purpose. This effort has received support in 25 districts
from the Bank financed first Rul Roads Development Project (RRI) and in som
65 districts from other donors.- The project continues the efforts for
district roads improvements initiated under RRI, which suffered serious
implementation difficulties, but was put back on course in early 1986
following decisive and concerted actions by the GOI and the Bank. Significant
progress has been made since then and this togettwr with the GOI's strong
commitment to the district roads programs, provide the basis for continued and
expanded Bank involvement in the subsector. The proposed project covers 78
districts in 11 provinces (Map IBRD 20238 and Annex 1), including the 25
districts previously assisted under RRI, with about 45,100 km of district
roads and 21,300 km of national and provincial roads (32% and 41% respectively
of the total lengths of these road classes). The selection of the districts
stems mostly from attempts to rationalize donor assistance to the district
roads programs which were started in 1980 when GOI asked the donors involved
in district roads development to provide funds for the designated parts of the
country. Thus 43 of the 53 additional districts in the proposed project were
selected in 1982 for preparation of a follow-up project to the RRI. Later
additions and changes to the list of districts were made mainly to consolidate
project areas among aid agencies and complete coverage of provinces to
economize and simplify logistics and to include neglected roads in former
transmigration areas.
B. Objectives
3.2       The aims of the project are:  (a) to bring about improvements in the
management of district roads programs in terms of: (i) planning and
monitoring; (ii) design and construction standards; (iii) work supervision;
and (iv) maintenance, through institutional reform consisting of realignment
of responsibilities among ministries and agencies concerned with district
roads programs, including roads in transmigration areas; (b) to provide
financial support for GOI's district roads programs; and (c) to improve
existing labor-based construction and maintenance techniques for such roads
and to introduce new appropriate techniques for this purpose.
51   The ADB has provided assistance to 44 districts, OECF to 21 and is
planning assistance for another 38 districts and USAID is planning
assistarce for 11 districts. In total, counting planned and proposed
projects, 192 districts out of the country's 246 districts will have
received some form of assistance for their road networks by 1990.



- 18 -
C. Project Scope
3.3       The project would consist of the following:
(a) realignment of the roles and responsibilities of the institutions
and agencies at the central, provincial and district levels
concerned with district roads programs;
(b) financing of parts of the annual district roads
rehabilitation/improvement programs for 1988/89-1990/91 in the
project districts totalling some 6,000 km or about 13% of the
network of these districts;
(c) financing of parts of the annual district roads maintenance programs
for 1988/89-1990/91 in the project districts;
(d) financing of fully equipped workshops and basic soils and materials
laboratories in project districts where none exist, and
tools/equipment for existing district workshops and laboratories;
(e) a pilot scheme to improve existing labor-based road construction and
maintenance methods, and to introduce appropriate new techniques for
this purpose;
(f) equipment and spare parts for road maintenance and improvement works
in the project districts;
(g) consultant services to assist in institutional reform and associated
training programs and in the preparation of annual work programs and
project implementation, to train district staff in those functions,
and to carry out studies of civil works contractors and roads built
under development schemes; and
(h) training for some 2,000 provincial and district staff concerned with
roadc and overseas training for some 100 middle and higher level
provincial and district road officials.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4       District roads are in urgent need of improvement and the GOI is
allocating considerable resources to the subsector. Yet, the effectiveness of
these funds is being hampered by an inadequate institutional setup. The
reform of a long established institutional setup involving various ministries
and agencies is, however, a major undertaking with many dimensions. The
Bank's involvement is intended to help overcome traditional resistance to
institutional changes in the district roads subsector, and ensure their satis-
factory implementation over a realistic time frame. Furthermore, in view of
the deterioration in GOI's budgetary situation, there is a a risk that cut-
backs in budgetary allocations for roads will undo the modest but important
improvement in the district road network achieved in recent years. Bank
involvement would contribute to the availability of adequate funds for
district roads, and also to better utilization of resources.



- 19 -
E. Project Description
Institutional Reform
3.5       Several institutional deficiencies have hampered the administration
of the district road programs at the central, provincial and district levels
(paras. 1.7, 1.16, 2.14-2.26). In the case of the central Government,
functions and responsibilities for district roads are not clearly defined
among concerned departments in the MHA, MPW, MOP and BAPPENAS. At the
provincial level, there is little effective involvement in the district roads
programs. In the districts, administrative and technical capabilities are
weak in terms of numbers and competence of staff and adequacy of procedures to
execute the responsibilities assigned at this level for the extensive road
networks and to properly exercise their authority over the district road
budgets.
3.6       The project will address these problems by realignment of the roles
and responsibilities of the various agencies involved in district roads
programs at the three levels of government as well as by strengthening of the
agencies at the district level through provision of technical assistance and
training. The aim of the institutional reforms is improved efficiency through
improved planning, programming, budgetting and supervision of works and the
establishing of appropriate maintenance of district roads. The GOI has issued
in May 1987 a Ministerial Instruction for the realignment of roles and
responsibilities together with Guidelines for its implementation and, in July
1987, an addendum to the Guidelines to firm up arrangements for tendering and
contract award (Annex 2). The Ministerial Instruction and the Guidelines are
a satisfactory basis for the short- to medium-term improvement of the planning
and execution of district roads programs provided the technical guidelines to
be issued by DGH are in accordance with earlier agreements with Bank staff.
At negotiations, an agreement was reached with GOI (a) on an Action Plan and
time frame for implementation of the institutional reforms (Annex 3) and on
the review of the Plan and its updating by March 31 in the years 1989, 1990
and 1991; (b) on the substance of the technical guidelines (Annex 4); (c) that
technical guidelines satisfactory to the Bank will be issued by February 29,
1988; and (d) that none of these documents will be changed without prior
consultation with the Bank.
3.7       The Ministerial Instruction (together with its implementing
Guidelines) covers all aspects of the preparation, execution and supervision
of all district roads in Indonesia regardless of the source of finance and
gives responsibility for technical matters to DGH and the relatively well
developed DPUPs. This new res-onsibility will first be applied in the project
districts mostly through project financed technical assistance and training,
followed soon in other districts currently receiving donor assistance. The
remaining about 85 districts (out a total of 243) would be receiving DGH and
DPUP assistance and training to gradually apply the technical guidelines. In
general, it should be expected that it will take a few years for the agreed
pl aing/selection/evaluation procedures to be fully applied, while purely
technical aspects should be relatively easily adopted.



- 20 -
Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
3.8       The 6,OOO km of rehabilitation/betterment works will involve several
hundred sections of seriously deteriorated district roads with lengths varying
between 0.5 km and 25.0 km. Traffic counts on roads studied in 1986 for
inclusion in the first year program found that more than two thirds of
recorded movements was non-motorized traffic. The AADT of motorized traffic
(excluding motorcycles which outnumber motor vehicles by almost two to one)
was just over 150 vpd; in West Java the average was about 300 vpd compared
with less than 100 vpd outside of Java. Traffic volumes of less than 90 vpd
were found on 9% of project sections in West Java and on 47% of sections
outside West Java while volumes of over 1,000 vpd were found respectively on
6% and less than 1% of sections. The roads will be brought up to minimum
standards based on projected traffic volumes and topography (Table 3.1);
existing alignment will be retained to the extent possible. Works will be
designed for a ten year lifetime and would include, as required, rehabilita-
tion of pavement layers, shoulders, side and cross drainage and bridges. The
traditional pavement surfacing on district roads is penetration macadam
carried out by labor-intensive methods. When adequately done this gives a
satisfactory surfacing but workmanship has deteriorated and specifications are
inadequate; improvements will be introduced under the project through new
specifications and technical assistance and subsequently through the results
of the labor-intensive pilot scheme (para. 3.12). Other surfacing methods will
be introduced under the project such as single and double bituminous surface
treatments, cold mix asphalts and hot-rolled sheets when works are close
enough to an operating asphalt mixing center for such overlays to be
economical.
3.9       The first year program of about 2,000 km is being selected on the
basis of an approach agreed with the Bank during project preparation. The
selection, design and detailed engineering for about 1,000 km have been com-
pleted in accordance with agreed standards and specifications. Implementation
is expected to start in June 1988. About 50% of works in the first year
program are expected to be rehabilitation of sealed roadst about 25% improve-
ment of gravel roads to sealed standard, about 15% rehabilitation of gravel
roads and about 10% improvement of earth roads to gravel standard. The selec-
tion and evaluation of subprojects for the second year program has already
started. The estimated scope of rehabilitation/improvement works by province
is shown in Table 3.2. During negotiations, an agreement was reached with GOI
that proposals for the three annual programs of rehabilitation/improvement
works selected in accordance with procedures for subproject identification and
evaluation (paras. 4.5, 4.6, 4.9), will be submitted to the Bank for review by
February 29, 1988, December 31, 1988, and December 31, 1989, respectively.
These programs will be established in the context of a balanced highway sector
expenditure plan and the programs for the second and third year will only
include subprojects located in districts which have satisfactorily implemented
both their rehabilitation/improveme.t programs and their maintenance programs
(para. 3.10) during the previous year.



- 21 -
Maintenance
3.10      This component comprises parts of the annual district roads mainte-
nance programs in the 78 districts over the years 1988/89-1990/91. The first
year program is expected to include some 4,500 km in districts where
maintenance equipment and a detailed work program are expected to be available
(Annex 5). In the second year somne 10,000 km should be maintained, while in
the third year all maintainable district roads in the 78 districts, some
19,000 km, should be included. At negotiations, GOI agreed: (a) that the
future countrywide maintenance strategy for district roads, including
technical and performance standards, intervention levels, funding formulas
based on needs and monitoring criteria, will be designed in detail and
submitted to the Bank for review and approval before February 29, 1988; (b) to
submit for Bank review and approva' before February 29, 1988, December 31,
1988 and December 31, 1989 maintenance programs for project districts for
respectively 1988/89, 1989/90 and 1990/91 based on the agreed strategy,
including both physical and budgetary aspects; and (c) that only the districts
which have implemented satisfactorily their 1988/89 and 1989/90
rehabilitation/improvement and maintenance programs would be eligible for the
project's 1989/90 and 1990/91 rehabilitation/improvement programs
respectively; implementation of the programs would be monitored through
periodic reports on the basis of payment certificates issued by the
supervising consultants supplemented by quarterly photographic surveys. A
first draft of a future strategy is presented in Annex 5.
Workshops
3.11      Major repair and overhaul of district equipment will be carried out
in the provincial workshops but proper workshop facilities need to be
established in all project districts in order to carry out the servicing and
preventive maintenance of road equipment. Under the project fully equipped
workshops and basic laboratories will be staffed and operated in all 78
districts. Well equipped workshops have been established in all of the 25
districts included in the RRI including laboratories for basic testing of
soils and materials. Workshops exist in 50 of the 53 additional districts but
seven of those will be rehabilitated and three new workshops will be built
under the project. Equipment, tools and instruments will be provided for six
workshops and laboratories as summarized in Table 3.3.
Labor-Intensive Pilot Scheme
3.12      Traditional labor-intensive methods are widely used in Indonesia for
construction and maintenance of rural roads and other small-scale public
works. Government policy aims at maintaining the use of labor-intensive
methods where they are suitable and limiting the use of capital-intensive
technology to activities for which no labor-intensive technology is available
or to areas where manpower is very scarce. The traditional methods have, how-
ever, remained basically the same for decades since no systematic efforts have
been made to improve them. As a result, the quality of construction and
maintenance is not satisfactory and the cost of labor-intensive construction
is not as competitive with equipment as expected considering the low cost of
manual labor.



- 22 -
3.13      Experience from rural roads projects receiving assistance from the
Bank and ILO in other developing countries suggests that considerable
potential exists for improvement in the quality and efficacy of the labor-
intensive methods employed in Indonesia. The pilot scheme included in the
project will develop and intr'duce improved techniques, supervision and
organization for labor-based construction and maintenance of district roads,
with the intention of gradually replicating the results of the pilot scheme in
other parts of the country. It will be carr-ad out in four districts, two in
West Java and two in West Kalimantan in connection with rehabilitation/
betterment of about 80 km of district roads and maintenance of about 180 km.
Annex 6 has further description of the pilot scheme.
Road Construction and Maintenance Equipment
3.14      Preparation studies for the project have shown that some of the
equipment procured under RRI was not fully suitable for the size and scope of
works it was intended for in the 25 districts. New analyses have been made to
design an equipment fleet more appropriate in terms of types, sizes and
numbers to carry out efficiently routine works and maintenance by force
account and partly to lease out to contractors who lack certain essential
equipment. Table 3.3 shows the equipment and spare parts required for the 78
districts that will be procured under the project.
Equipment and Tools for Labor-Intensive Pilot Scheme
3.15      The pilot scheme will test a wide variety of hand tools and various
degrees of labor-plant mix using intermediate size equipment such as agricul-
tural tractors with attachments and trailers, towed rollers, etc. A tentative
list of equipment is shown in Table 3.3. However, because of the trial/demon-
stration nature of the scheme some flexibility to change types, sizes and
numbers of equipment is allowed for.
Technical Assistance
3.16      General.  Four types of technical assistance will be provided to the
agencies concerned with district roads: (a) technical support to the DPUKs;
(b) technical support to the PMU; (c) training support to DPUKs, DPUPs and
ITB; and (d) technical assistance for the labor-intensive pilot scheme. The
project would also include two studies concerning: (a) contractors and
contracting for district roads; and (b) improved arrangements for handling
roads built under development schemes. Draft terms of reference for these
services, as shown in Annex 7, were reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations.
3.17      Technical Support for the DPUKs.  This support is required for the
planning, programming, implementation and supervision of the annual programs
for rehabilitation/improvement and maintenance of district roads and for on-
the-job training of DPUK staff in these fields. GOI will employ foreign and
local consultants for this purpose some of whom will be stationed in the pro-
vincial centers and others in the district centers to work with the DPUP and
DPUK staff on a daily basis. To facilitate administration and coordination,
the services will be divided into the three geographical areas used by DGH
(Western, Central and Eastern Regions). In addition, DCH will provide to the



- 23 -
DPUKs on a secondment basis experienced engineers for up to three years while
DPUK staff are being trained. The proposed project will provide technical
assistance to the DPUKs for about 5,466 man-months, of which 996 man-months
will be foreign and 4,470 mar.-months (1,830 man-months of professionals' and
2,640 man-months of sub-professionals' services) will be local consultants'
services. These consultants should mobilize by March 1988 when consultants'
contracts tinanced under RRI wiil expire.
3.18      Technical Support for the PMU.  Technical assistance to the PMU by
foreign and local consultants is required to support and train staff drawn
from the DGRD and DCH to ensure efficient project implementation and
institutional development (para. 3.27). The consultants will also assist in
the preparation of standard guidelines for the planning, programming, design
and supervision of construction and maintenance of district roads. The
services will be required until about mid-1991 and the project would provide
for about 1,230 man-months of technical assistance, including 378 man-months
of foreign and 912 man-months of local consultants' services. These
consultants should mobilize by March 1988 when consultants' contracts financed
under RRI will expire.
3.19      Technical Support for the Labor-Intensive Pilot Scheme.  The pilot
scheme will require substantial technical assistance for the planning,
execution and supervision of the trial and demonstration tasks and for
training of DPUK staff and interested local contractors and consultants. The
proposed project will provide for about 300 man-months of technical
assistance, including 160 man-months of foreign and 140 man-months of local
consultants' services. The foreign advisors should mobilize by November 1988
and the local consultants by early 1989.
3.20      Training.  Technical assistance is required for:  (a) review,
evaluation and improvements of existing MPW, DGH and MHA classroom and on-the-
job training programs for technical and administrative staff of the districts
and provinces concerned with district roads; (b) certificate programs for road
and bridge engineers (five 16-week programs); and (c) administration of
overseas training of provincial and district staff concerned with district
roads. For this purpose, the proposed project will provide for about 169 man-
months of technical assistance, including 48 man-months of foreign and 121
man-months of local consultants' services (see also para. 3.23). Training
programs will be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1988 and will be
implemented.
3.21      Study of Contractors and Contracting for District Roads.  The
capabilities and performance of the small contractors used for civil works on
district roads (class "C" contractors) have continued to present problems.
Among major concerns requiring attention are: the appropriate level of
sophistication of contract documents; types cf contracts, contract period,
system of supervision and certification of work for payment, minimum contrac-
tor capabilities for the standard of district roads, and the ways and means of
encouraging growth of small contractors including ownership of an appropriate
equipment fleet. Therefore, the proposed project will provide for about 36
man-months of technical assistance, including 12 man-months of foreign and 24
man-months of local consultants' services, to carry out a study that will



- 24 -
recommend measures to address the problems of the small contrActors used for
work on district roads. The terms of reference for the study are in
Annex 7. The study should be completed by March 31, 1989.
3.22      Study of Improved Arrangements for Handling Roads built under
Development Schemes. The rationale for this study is developed in para.
2.16. It would require about 60 man-months of technical assistance, including
24 man-months of foreign and 36 man-months of local consultants' services.
The study should be completed by March 31, 1989.
Training
3.23      While Indonesian universities, schools and vocational training
facilities are capable of providing basic training related to the planning,
design construction and maintenance of district roads, more specialized
training in these fields is not readily available and the most advanced
training in highway related fields and in project management can only be
obtained overseas. The project, therefore, includes: (a) in-country
training, formal and on-the-job, of some 2,000 district and provincial staff
concerned with district roads; and (b) advanced training overseas for some 100
middle and higher level district and provincial officials concerned with
district roads. During negotiations, an agreement was reached with GOI that
DGH and DGRD before September 30, 1988: (a) review, evaluate and make recom-
mendations for improvements in short-and long-term training for district and
provincial staff concerned with district roads and, in consultation with the
Bank and in accordance with an agreed action plan, introduce improvements in
the regular training programs of MPW, DGH and MHA for those staff; (b)
establish and make operational certificate course programs for road and bridge
engineers and (c) submit an overseas training program for the Bank's review
and approval. The project would finance, as appropriate, local and
international tra-vel, subsistence, course fees, training materials and aids
and consultants services (para. 3.20).
F. Cost Estimates
3.24      The total project cost is estimated at US$333.0 million
(Rp 51?.5 billion equivalent), including taxes and duties of US$18.8 mil-
lion.'  It includes:  (a) physical contingencies of 10% on the base cost of
civil works and technical assistance and 15% on training; and (b) price con-
tingencies of 3.0% during 1987, 1.0% during 1988-90, and 3.5% during 1991 on
the foreign component and of 10.0% during 1987, 5.0% during 1988 and 3.5%
during 1989-1991 on the local component. The direct and indirect foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$152.4 million or 46% of total cost.
Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 3.4 and summarized below:
7/   Includes US$11.4 million of identifiable taxes and duties on civil works,
US$5.9 million on procurement of equipment and US$1.5 million taxes on
the services of consultants.



- 25 -
Estimated Costs                Foreign
Component                          Local          Foreign        Total      as Z of
------  US$ million -----          …-   total
Civil Works
Road rehabilitation/improvement  87.7            47.2         134.9        35
Road maintenance (routine and
periodic)                       35.2           17.3          52.5        33
Workshops                           0.3           0.1           0.4        25
Subtotal                       123.2           64.6         187.8        34
Equipment                             6.7          47.7          54.4        88
Technical Assistance                 17.9          17.1          35.0        49
Training                              1.3           2.2           3.5        63
Total Base Cost                149.1          131.6         280.7        47
Contingencies
Physical                          14.3            8.4          22.7        37
Price                             17.2           12.4          29.6        42
Subtotal                        31.5           20.8          52.3        40
Total Project Cost             180.6          152.4         333.0        46
3.25      The base costs are estimated as of September 1987.  In the case of
civil works, estimates are based on updated and adjusted recent unit prices
for similar works under highway projects and force account works carried out
in 1986. Rehabilitation/improvement works are estimated to cost US$23,100 per
km for sealed roads and UTS$21,100 per km for gravel roads. Routine main-
tenance is estimated to cost about US$260 per km for sealed roads, about
US$1,470 when drainage improvements are included, and US$570 for gravel roads,
about US$1,830 when drainage improvements are included. Periodic maintenance
of sealed roads is estimated to cost US$6,500 per km and US$2,300 for gravel
roads; the cycle for periodic maintenance is assumed to be four years. A new
workshop is estimated at US$60,000 and rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing ones about US$25,000. The cost of equipment for construction and
maintenance operations, for workshops, and for laboratories is based on recent
bids updated to September 1987 price levels. A summary of the required
technical assistance consultant services and their estimated cost is tabulated
below:



I       - 26 -
Type of                     Foreign         Local                            Base
technical                consultants    consultants         Total            cost
assistance                ------------ man-months --------------         US$ million
For DPUKs                      996          4,578           5,574           23.2
For PMU                        378            912           1,290            8.4
For training                    48            121             169            1.1
For labor-intensive
pilot scheme                 160 /a         140             300            1.6
Studies of contractors and
development scheme roads      36             60              96            0.7
Total                    1,618          5,811           7,429           35.0
/a   Includes 96 man-months of UN-Volunteers' services.
The cost of training is based on the cost of ongoing similar programs both in-
country and overseas.
G. Financins
3.26      Financing of the proposed project will be as follows:
Source of Tinance                       Local         Foreign         Total
…(---------(US$ million)-----------
00I                                    143.0               -          143.0
Bank                                    37.6            152.4          190.0
Total                       180.6            152.4          333.0
The proposed Bank loan of US$190.0 million will finance about 57% of total
project cost or about 60% net of taxes and duties.  The project districts
would finance the remaining US$143.0 million equivalent, or about 43% of the
total estimated project cost through annual budgetary allocations from the
central government grant programs Inpres Jalan and Inpres Kabupaten. The
Bank's 601 share of project financing is similar to that of current operations
in Indonesia. The resulting local cost financing (211 of local costs) is
justified by Indonesia's very tight budget situation, which is expected to
continue in the near future, and the need to mair.tain an adequate roadworks
program funded from GOI's own resources in the districts which are not
supported by donor projects.



- 27 -
H. Implementation and Procurement
3.27      The project will be implemented over about three years by the DPUKs
in the 78 project districts, assisted by seconded DGH engineers, DPUP
technical staff and technical assistance consultants.  The PMU, on behalf of
DGRD under the overall guidance of the Steering Committee for District Roads,
will be responsible for ensuring effective implementation of the project on a
day-to-day basis, including the institutional improvements and overall project
coordination. The PMU will also be responsible for selective monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of investments in district roads. The structure and
staffing of the PMU was revised in early 1986, but in view of its expanded
responsibilities and increased workload, an ilreement was reached with GOI at
negotiations on restructuring and strengthening the PMU (Annex 8) and on
employing an additional number of qualified key staff in order to improve its
capacity to monitor the progress of the institutional reforms and of project
implementation, and to manage projects financed by other aid agencies. A
full-time unit chief has been appointed and is in post. The ILO, on behalf of
the GOI, will implement the labor-intensive pilot scheme. The project will be
completed by March 31, 1991.
3.28      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement method        Total
ICB      LCB      Other     cost
Project Element- US$ millior.---------
Road rehabilitation/improvement                -     146.6      16.3 a/ 162.9
-     (58.7)    (6.5)   (65.2)
Road maintenance, periodic                     -      18.0       9.0/a   27.0
-      (7.2)    (3.6T  (10.8)
Road maintenance, routine                      -       3.0      34.2 /a  37.2
-      (1.2)   (13.7)   (14.9)
Workshops                                      -       0.4        -       0.4
-      (0.2)       -      (0.2)
Equipment and spare parts for
construction and maintenance
workshops, laboratories, and              58.5       0.3        -      58.8
labor-intensive pilot scheme             (51.9)    (0.3)        -     (52.2)
_      (0.0)    (0.0)
Technical assistance
and training                                -         -      46.7      46.7
-        -      (46.7)   (46.7)
Total                                  58.5    168.0    106.5    333.0
(51.9)   (67.3)   (70.8)  (190.0)
/a   Force account (some of these works may be let to contractors through LCB
in the project's second and third years.
Note:  Figures include physical and price contingencies and those in
parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 28 -
3.29      The civil works are scattered over vast areas and although work will
be packaged to the extent possible, the size of contracts is expected to be
too small (about US$300,000 on average) to attract foreign contractors. Civil
works for road rehabilitation/improvement, periodic maintenance and workshops
will therefore be carried out by contracts awarded under local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable to the Bank and open for
participation by foreign contractors. In order to improve the quality of
construction, GOI assurances were obtained at negotiations that contractors
invited to bid on civil works will be those registered as class Bi contractors
or above. While force account works will in general be kept to a minimum, a
part of rehabilitation/improvement and periodic maintenance works would,
however, be carried out by force account, to facilitate on-the-job training of
the staff of the DPUKs and interested contractors. Implementation of these
components will start in about June 1988 and would extend through April
1991. Civil works for routine road maintenance would be carried out mostly by
force account by DPUK staff but contracting may be tried on a small scale
through LCB in the second and third years. Standard bidding documents for
civil works have been agreed with GOI, but as no contracts are expected to
exceed US$0.5 million, actual bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and
contracts will be kept by the DPUKs with copies at the PMU for subsequent Bank
review.
3.30      Apart from some equipment and tools for the labor-intensive pilot
scheme (up to a total amount of US$300,000) that may be procured through LCB,
all equipment, together with associated spare parts (US$58.5 million), will be
procured in accordance with ICB procedures and Bank guidelines for procurement
and all documents will be subject to the Bank's review and approval prior to
invitation to tender. In bid comparison and evaluation, domestic manufac-
turers will be granted a margin of preference of 15% or the prevailing import
duty, whichever is lower. Delivery of equipment is expected to be completed
in early 1989. Except for expatriate consultants' services for the labor-
intensive pilot scheme that will be selected by ILO in accordance with UN
rules, consultants will be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and GOI's assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations.
I. Disbursements
3.31      The loan funds would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) Civil Works:
ti)   40% of total expenditures of each of the three annual programs
for rehabilitation/improvement and periodic maintenance incurred
before April 1 1989, 1990 and 1991, respectively;
(ii)   75% of total expenditures of the 1988/89 program for routine
maintenance, 50% of the 1989/90 program and 25% of the 1990/91
program incurred before April 1, 1989, 1990 and 1991 respec-
tively; and
(iii)   40% of total expenditures on workshops;



- 29 -
(b)  Equipment and Spares for Construction, Maintenance, Workshops and
Laboratories and Labor-Intensive Pilot Scheme: 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported items; or 95% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory) of locally manufactured items, or 65% of expendi-
tures on locally procured items;
(c)  Consulting Services:  100% of expenditures; and
(d)  Training:  100% of expenditures.
Disbursements for items (b) and (c) will be made against full documentation of
expenditure while disbursements for all other items would be on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Withdrawal applications for items (b), (c)
and (d) would be aggregated to conform to the following minimum thresholds:
reimbursement--US$60,000 equivalent; direct payment--US$10,000 equivalent; and
special commitment--US$10,000 equivalent. The schedule of estimated disburse-
ments is shown in Table 3.5; it differs substantially from the disbursement
profile for standard highway projects (which require some six years for
completion), mainly because the project is limited to a time-slice (three
consecutive annual programs) of the road programs of 78 districts.
Disbursements are expected to be completed in about three and one-half years.
3.32      In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, GOI intends to
set up a Special Account in the Bank of Indonesia with an initial deposit from
the loan of US$8.0 million to serve as a revolong fund for covering local
currency payments of civil works expenditure.,   Only eligible project
expenditures, certified by PMU, would be made from the Special Account. The
PMU would manage all accounting records but preparation of supporting docu-
ments for SOEs. which will be retained by PMU for inspection by Bank staff
during supervision visits, will be the responsibility of the DPUKs and DGH.
The closing date of the loan will be December 31, 1991.
J. Accounts and Audits
3.33      The PMU will have overall responsibility for establishing and
monitoring the use of a uniform project accounting system. FinanLial records
and accounts by subprojects will be retained by the DPUK project units based
on copies of financial and supporting documents obtained from project managers
and relevant agencies concerned with project funding, payment and reimburse-
ment. The PMU will maintain accounts for equipment procured on behalf of the
project and for training and technical assistance. The DPUKs will transmit to
the PMU on at least a quarterly basis up-to-date project account records. The
PMU project comptroller will consolidate all accounts from the 78 districts
into a single project account on a quarterly basis for monitoring purposes and
1O/ At negotiations, GOI and the Bank agreed, on an exceptional basis, to
establish a Special Account for civil works expenditure considering that
the SKB 48 restricts the use of Special Accounts to local currency and
that all civil works expenditures are in local currency.



- 30 -
annually for audit purposes. The audit statements will deal with the Inpres
funds provided for the project as well as disbursements by the Bank, and will
include opinions on all expenditures including those made against SOEs.
Furthermore, during negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI that
(a) the consolidated project accounts, including documentation on SOEs, will
be audited annually in a timely fashion by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, and (b) the PMU will submit to the Bank certified copies of the
audited project accounts commencing December 31, 1989, and subsequently no
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal y ar.
K. Project Monitoring and Progress eporting
3.34      The PMU will monitor project expenditures and the physical progress
of the project from monthly reports provided by the DPUK project units. It
will send quarterly progress reports to the Bank not later than one month
after the end of each quarter. These reports will include both consolidated
monitoring information for the total project and individual reports for each
district.  The PMU will prepare a detailed project completion report and
submit it to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.
L. Environmental Aspects
3.35      The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
effects.  Works are mostly improvements of roads and bridges, including
improved side and cross drainage, widening and strengthening of shoulders and
pavements, overlays on old pavements, and bituminous surfacings on gravel
roads, all of which will improve conditions along the road through reducing
dust and noise and the possibility of flooding. As the works will be carried
out on existing alignments, requirements for additional land are minimal.



- 31 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.1       The Government's overall district roads programs reach the majority
of the population in the rural areas as they are based on the programs of the
individual districts which in turn are composed of road works scattered over
the district's entire road network. The principal aim of these programs is to
advance the development potential of the rural areas by improving access and
lowering road transport costs. In addition, Government is pursuing regional
equity and employment objectives through the programs. The main quantifiable
benefits being derived from these programs are savings in vehicle operating
costs (VOC) and in personal travel time. Other benefits of improved road
conditions which are less easily quantifiable are reductions in freight damage
and improved access to agricultural extension services and social and medical
services. Furthermore, improvements in road maintenance will provide better
access to some outlying areas where roads are at times impassable and will
save on costly reconstruction works in the future.
4.2       The direct beneficiaries of the VOC savings are the traders/truckers
and transporters using both motorized and non-motorized vehicles and the
private road users. Given that the level of road freight rates varies with
road conditions, savings in VOC of commercial vehicles normallv are passed on
to producers (in the form of higher farm-gate prices) and consun.rs (in the
form of lower prices for inputs and consumer goods) in the rural areas. The
savings in VOC of private vehicles and in passenger time costs accrue directly
to the vehicle owners and individuals concerned. The other, less quantifiable
benefits are also spread widely over the rural population.
4.3       The project will enhance the benefits normally derived from these
programs as it will not only provide financing for physical investments in the
78 project districts, but also includes important institutional reforms and
institution building measures aimed at improving the effectiveness of the
resources devoted to district roads. First, the project will introduce
improved selection/planning procedures at district level based on more
accurate information on the road network of the districts. This should result
in annual programs which correspond more closely to priority needs. Second,
the project includes measures to improve the quality of construction work;
this should result in longer lives of the road investments. Third, the
project will institute road maintenance on a more systematic basis, which will
extend the life of the investments and reduce vehicle operating costs.
Finally, at the level of the central government the institutional reforms
should bring about improved overall management of the program. These
measures, through their impact on the effectiveness of the resources allocated
to district roads, will extend the benefits beyond the direct economic gains
of the physical investments financed by the project. The economic evaluation
of the project, however, only considers the quantifiable benefits of the
physical investments in the project districts.
4.4       On the implementation side, the district road programs place heavy
emphasis on labor-intensive techniques and these will be improved under the
project. The labor-intensive approach has the merit of generating



- 32 -
considerable employment for the local population in the rural areas and the
income thus generated is locally spent. Also, the laborers employed under the
program are drawn from the poorer sections of the population. During the
three-year implementation period, project works would generate an estimated
80,000 man-years of employment. Moreover, the project would assist in
improving the skills and work methods of these laborers which is likely to
have spillover effects in other spheres of activity.
B. Annual Works Program Formulation
4.5       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the overall district roads
program depends critically on the composition of the annual programs in each
district and the project, therefore, gives great emphasis to annual program
formulation. The planning and programming approach being developed under the
project relies heavily on systematic methods of survey and analysis and
comprises a survey phase and an evaluation phase. The survey phase which each
year focuses on a subregion of the district is designed to identify the
initial list of candidate subprojects, while the evaluation phase is aimed at
formulation of the annual works program following screening of the individual
subprojects. At negotiation, agreement was reached that every year, candidate
subprojects will be identified on the basis of a survey in a subregion of each
district and that the annual work program will be formulated following a
screening process of those subprojects. The economic evaluation for screening
purposes uses a traffic related methodology (para. 4.6). The average planning
lead time is about 18 months (Annex 9). Under the project, district staff
will be trained in the various phases of the planning procedures. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that every year by December 31, together
with submission of the program of works for the following year, the PMU will
submit an action plan for on the job training of district staff in planning
procedures.
C. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Calculations
4.6       Under the project, annual programs are formulated by screening the
list of candidate subprojects following a standard economic evaluation based
on investment costs and road user savings accruing to all categories of road
traffic. The evaluation procedures adopted for the first year program are
appropriate and at negotiations agreement was reached that these procedures
will also be followed in subsequent years. The subprojects to be evaluated
are typically road links 5-10 km in length and the investment consists of
reconstruction or major rehabilitation. The elements entering into the
economic analysis include savings in motorized and non-motorized vehicle
operating costs and in passenger time costs; benefits in respect of generated
traffic; where applicable, benefits on account of diversion from non-motorized
modes to motorized vehicles; and savings in maintenance costs "with" and
'owithout" the project. The results of these evaluations provide the basis for
a ranking of subprojects by district, for final program formulation and the
calculation of the overall ERR. The minimum ERR for subprojects to be
included in the project is set at 10%. This was confirmed by GOI at
negotiations.



- 33 -
4.7       The average improvement cost of all viable subprojects evaluated for
a first-year program was US$22,500 equivalent per km. Technical options were
considered for each subproject. To estimate current traffic, classified
counts (6 and 12 hour counts) were conducted at a minimum of one station on
all project links and covering both motorized (fve vehicle categories) and
non-motorized (seven relevant types) movements. Traffic growth was projected
in the 3-6% range. Vehicle operating costs were derived by adjusting the VOC
model developed by DGH for national and provincial roads. Costs of non-
motorized traffic were developed separately. The value of "productive" time
was estimated on the basis of a representive economic wage while the value of
"private" time was based on half the estimated opportunity cost of unskilled
labor in rural areas.
4.8       Of the total of 420 subprojects studied for a first-year program,
231 or 55% have an ERR of 10% or greater. The remaining projects were either
found not viable, having an ERR below 10% or had not been fully evaluated on
the grounds that they were found not to meet the initial selection criteria or
because of inadequate survey data. Sensitivity calculations were performed on
a sample of 50 subprojects to test the sensitivity of the ERR to changes in
the basic assumptions, i.e. in respect of construction costs, base year
traffic and traffic growth, road condition assessment, generated traffic, non-
motorized traffic and modal diversion, time values, maintenance cost savings,
project life or implementation performance. The outcome of the ERR and
sensitivity analyses permitted the ranking of subprojects for each district
and then classification according to degree of risk. The overall ERR of the
subprojects screened for a first-year program and having an ERR of 10% or
greater was 29%.
D. Special Evaluation Procedures
4.9       Some subprojects, such as those involving significant development
benefits, substantial traffic diversion or forming part of former trans-
migration schemes, may not be suitable for the standard evaluation method.
For such subprojects there are essentially three broad options: (i) special
studies by the PMU; (ii) review and evaluation of the subproject by another
agency when the issues which have hampered traffic development are much more
complex than road access alone; and (iii) treatment of the subproject as a
special case. These options have not been worked out in detail but GOI has
prepared a broad outline of a satisfactory approach for dealing with such
cases. GOI intends to develop not later than March 31, 1988, for review and
approval by the Bank: (i) the criteria to determine whether a subproject
qualifies for special studies by the PMU, for reference to another agency, or
for treatment as special case; and (ii) the methodology to be employed in the
special studies. This was confirmed at negotiations. At negotiations
agreement was also reached that subprojects which fail to meet the standard
criteria will not be financed under the project unless they have been
evaluated and found viable, based on the special evaluation procedures to be
de7eloped and that subprojects evaluated on this basis shall not constitute
-more than 20% of the annual program in any district.



- 34 -
E. Overall Economic Rate of Return
4.10      The project covers both road rehabilitation/betterment works and
road maintenance. Overall, rehabilitation/betterment represents some 702 of
the project costs and the ERR of that part of the program already evaluatsd
indicates an ERR of 292 for these works. The ERR for subsequent years is
expected to be equal or higher and the overall ERR for the activities for
which costs and benefits have been calculated is therefore estimated to exceed
29%.
F. Project Risks
4.11      While the programs to be assisted in the project districts are
physically and economically feasible, there are a number of factors which
could frustrate achievement of the project's objectives. The main risk of the
project is that implementation of the institutional reform is slower than
anticipated and that the improvements in program formulation and program
implementation are delayed. This risk, however, has in part been averted by
et uring that the institutional reforms are agreed and that the corresponding
Ministerial Instruction and implementing guidelines are already issued. At
negotiations an agreement was reached with GOI on an adequate Action Plan for
implementation of the reforms; implementation of the plan will be carefuly
monitored (para. 3.6).



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOI:
(a) (i) on terms of reference for a study to prepare recommendations for
improved arrangements for handling roads built under agricultural
and other development schemes; and (ii) that the study would be
completed and submitted for the Bank's review no later than March
31, 1989 (paras. 2.16, 3.22);
(b)  on an Action Plan and timetable satisfactory to the Bank and on the
review and updating of the Plan in consultation with the Bank, by
March 31 of 1989, 1990 and 1991 (para. 3.6);
(c)  that the institutional arrangements for implementing district road
programs, as set in the May 18, 1987, Ministerial Instruction and
associated addendum and guidelines, not be changed without the
Bank's concurrence (para. 3.6);
(d)  on the detailed scope of the technical guidelines for the
implementation of the Ministerial Instruction of May 18, 1987, and
that the guidelines will be issued by February 29, 1988 (3.6);
(e)  on the selection procedures for works to be included in the annual
programs as follows:
(i)   proposed maintenance programs, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
submitted to the Bank by February 1988, December 31, 1988 and
December 31, 1989 respectively. These programs (including both
physical and budgetary aspects) will be based on the agreed
strategy (para. 3.9);
(ii)   every year candidate subprojects shall be identified on the
basis of a survey in a subregion of each district and the annual
work program shall be formulated following a screening process
of these subprojects (para. 4.5);
(iii)   PMU, by December 31 of every year will submit to the Bank an
action plan for on-the-job training of district staff in
planning procedures (para. 4.5);
(iv)   the economic evaluation procedure for screening purposes and the
minimum ERR of 10% used in the preparation of a first year
program will also be followed in subsequent years (para. 4,6);
(v)   PMU, by March 31, 1988, will submit to the Bank for review and
approval a proposal specifying the criteria governing the
special evaluation procedures and the methodology to be employed
(para. 4.9); and



- 36 -
(vi)   subprojects which fail to meet the standard criteria under (iii)
above, shall not be financed unless they have been evaluated and
found viable based on the special evaluation procedures and
subprojects on this basis shall not constitute more than 20X of
the annual program in any district (para. 4.9).
(f) (i) that the future countrywide maintenance strategy for district
roads, including technical and performance standards, intervention
levels and funding formulas based on needs, will be designed in
detail and submitted to the Bank for review before February 29,
1988; (ii) on submitting for Bank review and approval by February
29, 1988, December 31, 1988 and 1989, maintenance programs for
project districts for respectively 1988/89, 1989/90 and 1990/91
based on the agreed strategy, including physical and budgetary
aspects; and (iii) that only the districts which have implemented
satisfactorily their 1988/89 and 1989/90 rehabilitation/improvement
and maintenance programs would be eligible for the project's 1989/90
and 1990/91 rehabilitation/improvement programs respectively
(para. 3.10);
(g) that DGH and DGRD will before September 30, 1988: (i) review,
evaluate and make recommendations for improvements in short- and
long-term training for district and provincial staff concerned with
district roads and, in consultation with the Bank and in accordance
with an agreed action plan, introduce improvements in MPW, DGH and
MHA regular training programs for those staff; and (ii) establish
and make operational certificate course programs for road and bridge
engineers; and (iii) submit an overseas training program for Bank
review and approval (para. 3.23);
(h) on restructuring and strengthening the PMU, particularly through the
appointment of key staff, in order to improve its capacity to ensure
effective implementation of the project, including the institutional
reforms, and of projects financed by other aid agencies (para.
3.27);
5.2       Subject to the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$190.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



-37-                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Districts and Their Road Networks
(km)
Approx. length
Total                                    of arterial and
length of                                  collector roads
district     Sealed   Gravel       Earth     (national/
roads     surface   surface    roads       provincial)
Aceh
Aceh Selatan              407          19       235       153      430
Aceh Tenggara             479          25       200       254       200
Aceh Timur              1,350          62       857       431      230
Aceh Tengah               518          38        162      318       160
Aceh Barat                548           2       327       219       400
Aceh Besar                740          34       288       418       130
Pidie                     648         137       281       230       155
Aceh Utara              1,154          37       226       891       180
Subtotal             5,844         354     2,576    2,914    1 85  (1,983)
Suumatera Utara
Nias                      297          50         30      217       257
Tapanuli Selatan          547         129       326        92       516
Tapanuli Tengah           220         130        41        49       185
Tapanuli Utara          1,642         437        97    1,108       420
Labuhan Batu              793         136        115      542       270
Asahan                    384          41        48       Ž95      272
Simalungun                582         255       117       210      271
Dairi                     250          88        60       102       172
Karo                      907         215       312       380       245
Deli Serdang              558         284        90       184      354
Langkat                   406         139       202        65      210
Subtotal             6,586       1,904     1,438    3,244    3,172  (3,411)
Sumatera Barat
Pesisir Selatan           580          25       252       303      257
Solok                     695         140       192       363      264
Sawahlunto/Sijunjung      340          36       178       126      287
Tanah Datar               472         347        65        60       130
Padang Pariaman           399         203        90       106       114
Agam                      590         220       267       103       180
Limapuluh Kota            576         163       161       252      250
Pasaman                   603         J14       252       237      330
Subtotal             41255, 1248           1,457    1,550    1,812  (1,865)



-38-
Page i of 3
Approx. length
Total                                     of arterial and
length of                                   collector roads
district      Sealed   Gravel      Earth      (national/
roads     surface   surface    roads        provincial)
Jambi
Kerinci                    272         116         39      117       158
Sarko                      553           -       484        69       313
Batang Hari                398           -       211       187       434
Tanjung Jabung             397           -         12      385       330
Bungo Tebo                 274           -        80       194       288
Subtotal             1,894         116        826       952    1,523  (1,533)
Sumatera Selatan
Ogau Komering Ulu          375         106        174       95       472
Ogau Lomering Ilir         323           1         11      311       116
Muara Enim                 278           -        181       97       524
Lahat                      415          51        180      184       417
Subtotal             1,391         158        546       687    1,529  (1,588)
Bengkulu
BeUngkuilu Selatan         438           4       220       214       255
Rajang Lebong              306          24       179       103       203
Bengkulu Utara             530           9       261       260       453
Subtotal             1,274          37        660       577      911    (911)
Lampung
lampung Selatan            522         105       368        49       311
Lampung Tengah           1,231         183       600       448       611
Lampung Utara              717         109       251       357       517
Subtotal             2,470         397      1,219       854    1,439  (1,740)
Jawa Barat
Pandeglang                 354         137       123        94       110
Lebak                      311          49       173        89       125
Bogor                      794        460        262        72       160
Sukabumi                   568        324        213        31       275
Cianjur                   421          341        26        54       203
Bandung                    497         275       222         -       245
Garut                      511         376       119        16       190
Tasikmalaya                628         407       185        36       176
Ciamis                     528         259       211        58       145
Kuningan                   360          82        67        24        80
Cirebon                    206         157        39        10       140
Majalenka                  164         154          5        5        97
Sumedang                   406        269         84        53       108
Indramayu                 566         310        138       118       135
Subang                    887           78       359       450       100
Purwakarta                 164         118        35        11        61
Karawang                   625         168       194       263        68
Bekasi                     466         144       178       144        60
Tangerang                  868         403       316       149       100
Serang                     667        227        234       206       129
Subtotal             9,991       4,738      3,183    2,070    2,707  (2,741)



-39-                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Approx. length
Total                                    of arterial and
length of                                  collector roads
district     Sealed   Gravel       Earth     (national/
roads     surface   surface    roads       provincial)
Kalimantan Barat
Sambas                  1,089          79        12       998      235
Pontianak                 689           -        97       592       393
Sanggau                   588          17        62       509      310
Ketapang                  865          43         -       822       481
Sintang                   652           -         -       652       175
Kapuas Hulu               854           -          -      854         0
Subtotal             4,737         139       171    4,427    1,594  (1,703)
Sulawesi Tengah
Luwur/Banggai           1,077           -       377       700       380
Poso                      715         260       103       352       686
Donggala                  563          53       234       276      895
Buol Toli Toli            413          17        26       370       332
Subtotal             2,768         330       740    1,698    2,293  (2,664)
NTT
Alor                      667           -         -       667         0
Flores Timur              507           1         -       506        76
Sikka                     316          13        85       218      123
Ende                      242           3        42       197       192
Ngada                     937           2       178       757       212
Manggarai               1,205          11       396       798       291
Subtotal             3,874          30       701    3,143       894  (1,188)
GRAND TOTAL         45,084      9,451    13,517   22,116   19,759 (21,327)
Source:  AMPHI%O/Hoff and Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



-40-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 13
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministerial Instruction for Institutional
Reform and Guidelines for Its Implementation
Translation of Final Version
Jakarta, 18th May, 1987
No: 056.2/923/Bangda                To:  1. All Provincial Governors
2.  All Bupatis/Mayors
throughout Indonesia
Re: Mechanism for Providing Technical Guidance
and Administration for Kabupaten Roadworks
We wish to advise you that in order to improve management and quality of
Kabupaten roadworks, steps need to be taken to re-arrange duties and
responsibilities of all agencies involved at the Kabupaten/Kotamadya
(district), Provincial and National levels.
Duties and responsibilities referred to cover the fields of planning and
programme preparation, implementation, control and supervision together
with technical guidance in general.
The following guidelines shall be applied in respect of all Kabupaten/-
Kotamadya (district) roadworks whether funded under National Programmes,
Provincial Programmes or with District funds.
1.1. BAPPEDA IIs assisted by the Kabupaten Public Works Agencies (DPUKs)
and the District Secretariates/Development Sections and other
involved agencies shall prepare annual programmes for upgrading,
rehabilitation a&. maintenance and new construction of district
roads in accordance with general guidelines issued by the
Directorate General of Regional Development (DGRD) of the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MIA) and technical guidelines issued by the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW).
1.2. The Bupati/Mayor shall submit the roadwork programme proposals
prepared as under para. 1.1 above to the Governor for approval.
1.3. Programme proposals approved by the Governor shall be submitted to:
1.3.1.  The Chairman of BAPPENAS (Deputies I and V for Economic and
Regional Affairs, respectively), to the Director General of
Budgets of MOF, to the Director General of Highways of MPW
and to the Director Ger3ral of Regional Development of MHA,
for use in district road programme preparation at national
level and for programme monitoring.



-41-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 13
1.3.2.  After review at national level, the annual programme shall
be sent to the Bupati/Mayor for preparation of further
planning and design.
1.4.  The DPUKs on behalf of the Bupatis shall prepare necessary designs
of the respective projects as approved by the Governor, beginning
with surveys and field investigations through to the preparation of
designs ani preparation of budgets (DURP or DIPDA II) for the
respective programme.
In carrying out design work, the DPUKs shall stay within the budget
ceilings determined for the respective financial year, and shall
follow the technical guidelines issued by DGH.
1.5.  The budget documents prepared as under para. 1.4. together with
attachments ea.d supporting documents shall be resubmitted by the
Bupati/Mayor to the Governor for his approval, which shall be given
following review by BAPPEDA I, OPUP and the Development Bureau of
the Provincial Secretariate in line with their respective functions
and roles.
2. Implementation
2.1   The Bupati/Mayor shall be generally responsible for implementation
of programmes and projects, assisted by:
2.1.1   The DPUK, twho shall be responsible for construction and
supervision of the district road programme;
2.1.2.  The Development Section of the District Secretariate, who
shall be responsible for the operational control of
projects including the preparation of reports;
2.1.3.  BAPPEDA II, who shall be responsible for overall control of
planning.
2.2   The Bupati/Mayor as the responsible party for programme implemen-
tation shall appoint qualified DPUK technical staff, including
technical staff of the DPUP or DGH seconded to the DPUK's as
Project Managers. Project Managers shall be responsible for the
implementation of roadworks, whether carried out by force account
or contract.
2.3.  In carrying out his duties, the Project Manager shall be assisted
by a Supervision Team consisting of technical staff of the DPUK
strengthened if considered necessary by technical staff of the DPUP
or consultant supervisors appointed for this purpose.
The Project Manager assisted by the Supervision Team is responsible
for quality control and quantity measurements of works which, in
the case of contracted works, form the basis of progress payments
to co&tractors.



-42-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 13
2.4.  When works are to be carried out by contract, the Project Managers
shall be responsible for the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification of contractors and the tendering process, within
the limits of authority vested in them under prevailing
regulations.
2.5.  In the case of projects financed partly with foreign aid,
consultant supervisors appointed with the approval of the donor
shall ensure that the quality of work being certified for payment
is in accordance with the specifications and the quantities in
accordance with field measurements. To reflect this assurance, the
consultants shall countersign the certificate of works progress to
be used as the basis for payment.
2.6.  The DPUK shall be responsible for the daily operation and main-
tenance of equipment for force account works, and for allocating
funds for these purposes. The DPUP shall assist the DPUK to carry
out major repair and overhaul of DPUK equipment.
3. Technical Guidance
3.1.  The Directorate General of Highways shall exercise technical
guidance ove- the DPUP (Highways Division), and the DPUP on behalf
of the Central Government shall exercise technical guidance over
the DPUKs for planning, programming, design, implementation,
supervision and control of roadworks, including maintenance, of
district roads.
3.2.  The Directorate General of Highways shall upgrade the capabilities
of DPUK staff through technical advice on the physical
implementation of roadwork projects, and by carrying out
comprehensive training programmes.
3.3.  In order to meet the requirements for qualified personnel in the
DPUKs, staff of the Directorate General of Highways or of the DPUP
may be transferred or seconded to the DPUKs, in accordance with the
relevant regulations.
4. Programme Management at National Level
In Accordance with Presidential Instruction No. 6 of 1984 concerning "The
Provision of Development Assistance to Provinces, Districts and
Villages", in particular concerning the Inpres Jalan programme,
management duties for national level agencies have been outlined as
follows:
4.1. The Director General of Regional Development of MHA shall be
responsible for management of the administration of implementation.
4.2.  The Director General of Highways of MPW shall be responsible for
management of technical aspects of road and bridge works.



-43-.
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 13
4.3.  The Minister of State for Development Planning/Chairman of BAPPENAS
shall be responsible for general planning of development assistance
to ensure consistency with other development programmes.
4,4   The Director General of Budgets of the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
shall be responsible for supply and channelling of funds for the
programme.
For coordination and consistency of action in managing the programme at
Central level, a Steering Committee shall be formed, with the following
membership:
-  the Director General of Regional Development of MHA.
-  the Director General of Government and Regional Autonomy of MHA;
-  the Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS for Economic Affairs;
-  the Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS for Regional Affairs;
-  the Director General of Budgets of MOF;
-  the Director General of Highways of MPW.
Decisions taken at meetings of the Steering Committee shall become the
basis of guidance for the agencies involved in the district roads
programme, in line with the respective roles and authorities of each
agency.
5. Programme Management at Provincial Level
The Governor shall be responsible for management of programme
implementation in his Province, and shall be assisted by:
- BAPPEDA I;
- The Development Bureau in the Provincial Secretariate;
- The Provincial Public Works Agency; and other involved agencies.
6. Formation of Joint Secretariate (Project
Management Unit - PMU) at Central Level
To assist the Director General of Regional Development of MHA in handling
general administration of the programme and in particular the
administration of district roads funded in part by Lending Agencies
(IBRD, AND, OECF, etc), a joint secretariate or Project Management Unit
(PMU) may be established at Central Level as a temporary measure. It
shall consist of staff of the Agencies involved in the programme at
Central Level.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 13
We ask for your attention to these matters in order to improve the
management of district roadwork programmes, both from the Central Govern-
ment to the Provincial Governments, and thence from the Provincial
Covernments to the District Governments.
MINISTER OF HOME AFFAIRS,
(signed) SOEPARDJO
cc:  1.  Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS for Economic Affairs
2. Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS
3. Director General of Budgets, Ministry of Finance
4. Director General of Highways, Ministry of Public Works
5. Secretary General, Ministry of Home Affairs



-45-
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 13
Jakarta, 25th May, 1987
No. 620/958/Bangda                     To:  1.  All Provincial Governors
throughout Indonesia
2.  All Bupatis/Mayors
throughout Indonesia
Re: Guidelines for Implementation of Kabupaten Roadworks
Following the Minister of Home Affairs' Instruction No. 056.2/923/Bangda
dated 18th May, 1987, concerning the Mechanism for Providing Technical
Guidance and Administration for Kabupaten Roadworks, we request your
attention and assistance in preparing and carrying out the programme of
Kabupaten roadworks in your area.
1. Planning and Programme Preparation
1.1.  Technical Guidelines
Technical guidelines relating to planning, programming and
implementation of district roadworks shall be issued by the
Directorate General of Highways.
1.2.  Survey of Road Network
District Works Agencies (DPUKs) shall be responsible for carrying
out surveys on district roads, and shall be assisted by Bappeda II
in particular for socio-economic surveys. Provincial Works
Agencies (DPUPs) shall provide support and advice for such surveys.
1.3.  Link Selection and Evaluation
Folliwing procedures as outlined under para. 1.1, the DPUK shall
select links from the surveyed areas which satisfy the criteria for
upgrading and rehabilitation proposals. Evaluation of links for
upgrading shall follow procedures determined as under para. 1.1,
and shall be carried out with the assistance of the DPUP.
1.4.  Preparation of Draft Works Programme
Based on the evaluation as under para. 1.3, the DPUK shall assemble
a programme of district road upgrading/rehabilitation and a
programme of district road maintenance.
1.5.  Approval of Programme Proposals
1.5.1 The programme proposals prepared as under para. 1.4 shall be
reviewed at kabupaten level by:



-46-
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 13
The Chairman of BAPPEDA II shall review the programme
proposals in accordance with guidelines determined as under
para. 1.1.
The Head of the Development Section in the Kabupaten
Secretariat shall ensure the administracive completeness of
the programme proposals.
1.5.2. Programme proposals shall be sent by the Bupati to the Governor
for approval. Before approval by the Governor, proposals shall be
reviewed by:
- The DPUP, for conformity with technical standards as
determined under para. 1.1, and in relation to the overall
road programme within the province; and by
-  BAPPEDA I, for macro-planning and coordination with other
projects within the province.
1.5.3  Draft programme summaries from para. 1.5.2 shall be used by
Bappeda I in preparing information for the National Consultation
of Bappeda I officials.
1.6.   Approval of Final Proposal
After budget allocations for each District have been announced,
the Head of the Development Section in the Kabupaten Secretariate
shall assemble final programme details for their District with the
assistance of the DPUP.
1.7.   Engineering Design and Document Preparation
The DPUK shall carry out engineering surveys and design on links
as determined under para. 1.6. Data from the engineering analysis
shall be entered into the budget documents (DURP/DIPDA) which
shall be submitted by the Bupati/Mayor to the Governor for
approval. In giving his approval, the Governor shall be assisted
by the DPUP.
2. Tendering of Civil Works
2.1    Preparation of Tender Documents
Standard tender documents shall be drafted and issued by the
Directorate General of Highways, and shall be used by the DPUK as
the basis of preparation of final tender documents.
2.2.   Prequalification of Contractors



-47-
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 13
The DPUK assisted by the DPUP should examine carefully the general
list of prequalified contractors (DRM) so that only contractors
who have genuine financial strength and technical ability should
be invited to submit tendprs.
2.3.   Tender Process and Evaluation of Bids
A Tender Committee shall be established by the Bupati/Mayor
consisting of staff of the DPUK, staff of the Development Section
and Finance Section of the Kabupaten Secretariate and other
involved Technical Agencies, assisted by staff of the DPUP.
The Tender Committee shall invite contractors to submit tenders
for works using tender documents referred to under para. 2.1, in
line with tender procedures contained in Presidential Decree No.
29 of 1984.
After evaluating the bids, the Tender Committee shall make
recommendations to the Project Manager on proposed award of
contract, and the contract award procedure shall be in accordance
with Presidential Decree No. 29 of 1984 and the Minister of Home
Affairs' Instruction No. 36 of 1984.
2.4.   Award and Contract Signature
The award of contracts shall be in accordance with Presidential
Decree No. 29 of 1984. Contracts shall be signed by the Project
Manager and approved by the Bupati/Mayor. A report on contract
awards for all projects shall be prepared by the DPUK and sent by
the Bupati/Mayor to the Governor who should then report to the
Director General of Regional Development.
3. Implementation
3.1.   General
In order to upgrade the capabilities of DPUK, the DPUP should give
technical guidance in relation to implementation and supervision
of the kabupaten roadworks programme. Such technical guidance may
be in the form of written guidelines or provision of DPUP staff to
the DPUK. In providing guidance in the form of provision of
staff, the DPUPs shall always consult with the Bupati/Mayor and
report the results to the Governor.
3.2.   Implementation of Work
3.2.1  In line with the Minister of Home Affairs' Letter No. 056.2/923-
/Bangda of 18th May, 1987, the Bupati/Mayor shall appcint and
dismiss as Project Managers, technical staff of the DPUK,
including technical staff of DGH or the DPUP seconded to the DPUK;
for both contract and force account projects. The Project Manager
shall be responsible for physical implementation of the



-48-                            ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 13
projects. Appointment and dismissal of the Project Managers shall
be done after obtaining the advice or recommendation of the Head
of the DPUK as the Project Managers' direct superior.
3.2.2 For projects carried out on a contract basis, the Bupati/Mayor
shall appoint a Supervisory Team to assist the Project Manager.
The Supervisory Team shall consist of technical staff of the DPUK
and the DPUP, or consultant staff appointed for the purpose.
3.2.3 For projects carried out on a force account basis, the Project
Manager shall carry out his duties assisted by staff of the Roads
and Bridges Sections of the DPUK/DPUP.
3.3    Control of Supervision of Works
Control and supervision shall include the following duties:
3.3.1 Preparing a schedule for field supervision of all projects.
3.3.2 Implementation of supervision, paying particular attention to the
following matters:
-   Continuous checking and reporting of work quality (including
taking photos before, during and after completion of work).
The quality of works must be in accordance with specifications
contained in the contract or project documents.
-   Preparing recommer.dations and reports on action to be taken in
case of divergence from contract documents.
-   Carrying out complete checks of work quality and measurement
of volume before preparation of Work Certificates for each
installment of contract payment to the contractor/executor.
-   Preparation of progress reports on each project, preparation
of summary reports from the Bupati/Mayor to the Governor, and
documentation of completed works.
3.3.3 Supervision of day-to-day work should be noted in a daily diary,
including the volume of work completed, the number of workers
employed, the amount of equipment and its condition, the weather
and other events considered necessary to record.
3.4.   Certification of Works
Works Certificates shall be prepared by the Supervisory Team
referred to under para. 3.2. Only works carried out in accordance
with the technical specifications shall be certified for
payment. For projects funded in part with foreign aid, the DPUP,
or on the DPUP's behalf consultants acting by written authority of
the Governor, shall countersign Works Certificates to reflect
assurance of satisfactory quality.



-49-ANE2
AJIEK 2
Page 10 of 13
3.5.   Payment and Accounting
3.5.1. Progress payment documents for both contract and force account
works shall be prepared by the Project Manager, and shall be
submitted to the Development Section in the Kabupaten Secretariate
through the DPUK for review and approval.
3.5.2. Physical and financial progress reports shall be prepared by the
Project Manager and shall be forwarded to the Bupati/Mayor through
the DPUK for kabupaten level monitoring. The Bupati/Mayor shall
submit progress reports to the Governor for provincial level
monitoring. The Governor shall then send summary reports to the
Directorate General of Regional Development for national level
monitoring.
3.6    Equipment Allocation
3.6.1. The Directorate General of Highways assisted by the Directorate
General of Regional Development shall determine the quantity and
type of equipment to be allocated to each Province for use on
kabupaten roadworks.
3.6.2. The DPUP assisted by the Development Bureau in the Provincial
Secretariate shall determine the quantity and type of equipment to
be allocated to each kabupaten based on equipment utilization
plans which shall be prepared by the Project Manager and
authorized by the Head of the DPUK. The DPUP shall monitor the
utilization of all equipment. Periodic reports on such monitoring
shall be submitted to the Governor.
3.7.   Equipment Repair
3.7.1. The DPUK shall be responsible for the operation, servicing and
minor repair of all equipment, both that owned by the kabupaten
and that owned by the Directorate General of Highways and loaned
to the kabupaten. The DPUK shall be responsible for setting aside
funds for the utilization and maintenance of equipment during
project implementation.
3.7.2. The DPUP shall be responsible for major repair of all kabupaten
equipment. The local Regional Depots of the Directorate General
of Highways shall assist the workshop staff of the kabupaten and
the DPUP, and shall be responsible for monitoring of all equipment
repair.
3.8.   Procurement of Materials
The DPUK shall prepare materials needs lists based on the coming
year's works programmes. Such lists shall be submitted by the
Bupati/Mayor to the DPUP on behalf of the Governor for review and
recording as necessary.



-50-                            ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 13
4e Other Matters
4.1.   Training of Staff
4.1.1. The Ditectorate General of Highways has the duty of upgrading the
capability of DPUK staff by carrying out comprehensive training
programmes at the national, provincial and district levels.
4.1.2. The DPUK shall assemble lists of zandidates for all types of
training, with the assistance anw  advice of the DPUP and of the
Development Bureau in the Provincial Secretariate.
4.1.3. To fulfill the need for qualified personnel in the DPUKs, it is
possible that staff of the Directorate General of Highways or of
the DPUP may be transferred or seconded to the DPUKs.
5. Coordination at National and Provincial Levels
A Steering Committee has been formed to facilitate coordination and
programme control, and to give guidance and direction to each agency
involved in district road development, with membership consisting of the
Deputy Chairmen for Economic Affairs and Regional Affairs of BAPPENAS,
the Director General of Regional Development, the Director General of
Government and Regional Autonomy, the Director General of Budgets and the
Director General of Highways.
To assist the Director General of Regional Development particularly in
administering district road programmes funded in part with foreign aid, a
Project Management Unit (PMU) may be formed, consisting of staff of the
Directorate General of Regional Development, BAPPENAS and the Directorate
General of Highways, with duties as follows:
-   Preparing guidelines and procedures for use in the foreign-
assisted district road programme and handling their
administration;
-   Preparing materials for technical guidelines for implementation
and supervision;
-   Assisting in preparation of programmes for procurement of
equipment and materials, starting from planning, procurement,
distribution up to full functioning of equipment (including
workshop and laboratory equipment).-
-   Monitoring of the progress of programmes and monitoring of the
quality of upgrading and maintenance works.
-   Preparing programmes for training of project personnel.
-   Acting as counterpart for project consultants.



-51-                            ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 13
We ask for your attention to these matters so that the above guidelines
may be implemented as well as possible.
On behalf of the Minister of Home Affairs
DIRECTOR GENERAL OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Signed) Ir. PIEK MULYADI
1.   Minister of Home Affairs
2.   Secretary-General of Ministry of Home Affairs
3.   Director General of Government and Regional Autonomy, (PUOD),
Ministry of Home Affairs
4.   Director General of Highways, Ministry of Public Works
5.   Deputy Chairman of Bappenas for Economic Affairs
6.   Deputy Chairman of Bappenas for Regional Affairs
7.   Director General of Budgets, Ministry of Finance
8.   Heads of all Provincial Works Agencies (DPUP) in Indonesia
9.  Heads of all Kabupaten Works Agencies (DPUK) in Indonesia



-52-
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 13
Translation of Telex from Minister of Home Affairs to all Governors
27th July, 1987
AAA. Further to instruction of Minister of Home Affairs dated 25 May, 1987
No. 620/958/Bangda and with reference to guidelines for implementation of
arrangements for management of rural roads program, we herewith inform
you that for Inpres Jalan Works funded by the coming IBRD funded Second
Rural Roads Project, the Provincial Public Works agency (DPUP) must be
represented on the tender committee in the respective districts.
BBB. Please inform the respective Bupatis.
Minister of Home Affairs.



-53-
ANNEX 3
INDONESIA - SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for the Impltwntation of Institutional lnprovement for DOstriet Rodds
.....................................................................................................................
Actions to be taken                                                      I Reonyible 11987 1988 1989 1990 191
...........i.......................................................................................................
1.  INITIING ACTIONS
Oraft Ninisterial Instruction from NHA to all Governors and lupatis           DGRD       mm
Oraft Ilepmentation Guidelines from the Director General of DCRD              DCRO       NM
Prepare Draft Natrix of Present  Transition and Final Roles                   DGRD        N
lssue  of Ninisterial !nstruction on institutional inprovement after          DGRD        N
agreaemnt with SC.
2.  IDENTIFICAtION OF PRESNT ROLES
Identification of present roles & relationships at District lewl             CDM/PUOD       P  1N
Identification of present roles 8 relationships a  Provincial level         OGRD/PVOD       P N
Identification of present roles & relationships at Central level          DGRD/DGN/BAPP    N N
3.  IDENTIFICATION OF PRESENT STAFFING 
Inventory and database of present staff at District level                   DGRDJPUOD       P NON
Inventry and databse of present staff at Provincial level                   DGRD/PUOD       P No
Inventory and database of present staff at Central level                  DRD/DCJ/BPP         N
4. PREPARlATIOC  OF DETAILFO TRANSITION PLANS
Identify need and prepare plan for establishing new OPUKs                   OGRD/PUKO         PPMN N
Prepare plan for establishing Rurel Road Sections in DPUPs                DGRO/DGH/PUOD       NNNN'NN
Cost estimtes for project organizations and supervisory tean               DRD/DOGN            P jU
Identity need and prepare plan for establishing other new units           DGRD/PUOD/DGM       NNNN N
S. DEFINITION OF ROLES OF EACH AGENCY                                                        -     -   |-
Prepare job descriptions for all Provincial and District agencies           OGRD/PUOD       P PPWN N
SC's agreement on policy on al:ocation of tasks                               DCRO             PNN N
identify nmbers and types ot staff required over next five years          DGRD/PUOD/DGM       PpNN a
6.  IDENTIFICATION OF RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS                                                   _    _          - _
Match staff requirements with staff availability                          DGRD/PUOD/DGH        PNN N
Identify needs and possibilities for transfers                            DGRD/PUOD/DGH        PUN N
Identify recruitment needs for each organizational unit                     DGRD/OGH           PNN N
Estimate additional costs over and above present budgets                      DGRD               U N
7. STAFF REALLOCATtON AND RECRUITMENT                                                         -
Ninisters*/Director Generals' instructions on recruitment and budgets       DGRD/DGH           NNW N
Each agency inpleents transfers, recruitment, etc                         DMRD/Governor         UN NUWN N
lepletent new organizations at District level                               eu¶ati              Nm NUNN N
8.  TRAINING
Identify training requirements for all units                                OGRO/OGH      PP mN
Prepare curricula, training schedule and allocate training facflities       DGRD/DGH          NUNX UN
Training agencies implement formal training of staff and recruits           DGRO/OGH            UN UNU N UNN U
9. NONITORING OF INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENT
Set up maagement criteria for identifying progress                            PHU         UN UN
Set up regular reporting on staffing at each agency                           P1U               UN UN
Analyze and evaluate reports and advise SC                                    P1W              Km NNN  UNU NU
SC's agreement on action as required                                         DOGRD              MU NOUN UNN N
10. ACTION PLAN REVIEW                                                                               -II
Mnnitoring by PHU and reporting to SC                                         PNU             N"uN  mUNU  NNWN N
Review by DGRD and SC agreement on revision of Action Plan                    DGD             NNW" UNU NNNN N
Review by World Bank for monitoring of Institutional lerpovement           Wortd Bank          N    a u |    |N
Key: SC * Steering Committee;   P = Six Pilot Districts;   N a Nationwide



-54-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scope of Technical Guidelines
for
Planning and Executien of
Rehabilitation/Improvement and Maintenance Programs
1.   Planning and Program Preparation
1.1. Planning Surveys
1.1.1.  Determination of Planning Areas
1.1.2.  Link Identification and Mapping
1.1.3.  Road Condition and Photographic Surveys
1.1.4.  Traffic Counts and Speed Surveys
1.1.5.  Population and Other Surveys
1.1.6.  Specific Maintenance Planning Surveys
1.2. Analysis and Screening
1.2.1.  Network Mapping and Analysis
1.2.2.  Traffic Analysis
1.2.3.  Population Analysis
1.2.4.  Analysis of Unreliable Roads
1.2.5.  Generaliazed Cost Estimation
1.2.6.  Benefit Analysis
1.2.7.  Special Evaluation Procedures
1.2.8.  Screening, Ranking and Program Preparation
1.2.9.  Maintenance Program Preparation
2.   Design and Budget Estimates
2.1 Engineering Surveys
2.1.1.  Geometric Surveys
2.1.2.  Soil Investigations
2.1.3.  Materials Investigations
2.1.4.  Hydraulic Investigations
2.1.5.  Bridge Foundation Investigations
2.1.6.  Special Investigations (Soft Soils, etc.)
2.2  Design Standards
2.2.1.  Geometric Design
2.2.2.  Pavement Design
2.2.3.  Drainage Design
2.2.4.  Appurtenance Design
2.2.5.  Bridge Design



-55-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
2.2.6. Design Drawings
2.3. Specifications
2.3.1. Roadworks
2.3.2. Bridgeworks
2.3.3. Maintenance
2.4. Detailed Cost Estimation and Budgetting
2.4.1.  Surveys of Unit Prices of Labor and Materials
2.4.2.  Determination of Equipment Unit Prices
2.4.3.  Construction Work Method Assumptions
2.4.4.  Maintenance Work Method Assumptions
2.4.5.  Preparation of Budget Cost Estimates
3.   Preparations for Implementation by Contract
3.1. Prequalification of Contractors
3.2. Tender Activities
3.2.1. Tender Documents
3.2.2. Tender Procedures
3.2.3. Evaluation of Bids
3.2.4. Award of Contracts
4.   Implementation and Supervision
4.1. Force Account Procedures
4.1.1.  Establishment of Work Site and Facilities
4.1.2.  Employment of Labor
4.1.3.  Purchase of Materials
4.1.4.  Operation of Equipment
4.1.5.  Servicing and Repair of Equipment
4.1.6.  Workshop Operations and Management
4.1.7.  Stores and Stock Control
4.1.8.  Bookkeeping and Cost Accounting
4.2. Contract Procedures
4.2.1.  Possession of Site
4.2.2.  Traffic Control
4.2.3.  Quarries and Materials
4.2.4.  Lease of Equipment
4.2.5.  Facilities for Quality Control and Supervision
4.2.6.  Site Clearance on Completion
4.2.7.  Maintenance of Completed Works



-56-                             AEX 4
Pi %e 3 of 3
4.3 Supervision and Quality Control
4.3.1. Contracted Works
4.3.2. Force Account Construction Works
4.3.3.  Maintenance Works
4.3.4. Certification of Works for Payment
4.4. Documentation and Reporting
4.4.1. Contracted Works
4.4.2. Force Account Construction Works
4.4.3. Maintenance Works



-57-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SEC.OND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Maintenance Program for Project Districts and a First
Proposal for a Maintenance Strategy for District Roads
A. Sumar
1.        The main conclusions of the work on d.strict roads maintenance
through August 1987 can be summarized as follows:
(a)  The maintenance program should attempt to provide for 100% of the
needs for maintenance of roads in good and fair condition in the
project districts. In the first two years of the program, it is
assumed that echievement of this will be limited by district
capacity, due to the persistence of the concept of applying main-
tenance funds to low quality repair of roads in bad condition. The
program estimate presented in Section B assumes progressive intro-
duction of maintenance of all good and fair roads.
(b) Three types of maintenance work are proposed for district roads, as
follows:
gi)    initial improvement of drainage systems on roads in good and
fair surface condition, both sealed and gravel. This is
required since most existing roads have been built without
formal design, are poorly drained, and the impact of other
maintenance works (and the residual life) would increase signi-
ficantly by first improving the drainage systems;
(ii)    road maintenance of newly upgraded roads and, after drainage
i_provement, of other roads in good and fair condition; and
(iii)    periodic maintenance, including overlays of sealed roads and
regravelling of unsealed roads, carried out on roads in fair
condition where drainage improvement has been completed.
(c)  Routine maintenance is defined to consist of different activities
from periodic maintenance and from drainage improvement (Attachment
1), in order to keep the programs clear and consistent and to
emphasize that routine works are required on all good and fair
links. Links budgeted for drainage improvement should also be
budgeted for routine maintenance in the same year. Routine main-
tenance on links budgeted for periodic maintenance should begin in
the following year.
(d)  At least for the first year and probably for the 3 years of the
program, the present COI maintenance funding criterion (25% of the
population-based Inpres Kabupaten program) should be retained due to
its simplicity, the greater importance of achieving physical objec-
tives over budget refinement, and the reasonable proportion of over-
all needs for which it in theory provides at present.



-58-                          ANN-X 5
Page 2 of 3
(e)  The greatest disadvantage of the present criterion, namely its lack
of relation to the size of maintenance needs in some districts,
should be addressed directly by the project financing an agreed pro-
portion of overall needs, with individual funding per district to be
distributed according to individual needs.
(f)  Any revisions to the above proposed budgeting strategy should not be
allowed to divert attention from the main thrust of the strategy,
that is to allow most effort to be concentrated on implementation of
maintenance in the districts, and on training ot district work
forces in maintenance routines and work methods.
(g) To implement the proposed strategy, a commitment is required from
the Government to:
(i)    budget for the proposed project component of maintenance under
Inpres Kabupaten beginning in 1988/89 with the program outlined
in Section B;
(ii)    issue policy guidelines from Home Affairs Department supported
by technical guidelines from Public Works t'epartment regarding
allocation of the major part of maintenance funds to the works
outlined in para (b) above on roads in good and fair condition
only;
(iii)    immediately procurs appropriate maintenance equipment as
required for the 78 kabupatens; and
(iv)    establish gangs of routine and periodic maintenance workers in
each district.
2.        Other important aspects of the maintenance strategy are as follows:
(a)  All repair and rehabilitation works on poor and bad condition roads
(except for emergency works as described under para. 2 (b) below)
should be excluded from maintenance, as should any works costing
over as threshold amount per km (to be determined each year and
agreed with the Bank), which should be subject to evaluation as for
other improvement works. The purpose of this bias towards good and
fair roads is to overcome present widespread neglect of routine
maintenance of such roads and the consequent rapid deterioration of
assets.
(b)  There should be an emergency maintenance provision in each district
maintenance budget, based on an appropriate formula yet to be
developed, to be allocated for works such as clearing landslips,
repairing collapsed bridges and improvement of bad spots to keep
roads open to traffic, subject to the limit in 2 (a). A contingency
of 10% has been included in estimated routine and periodic main-
tenance and drainage improvement costs to allow for emergency works
until an appropriate formula is derived. (It is noted, however,
that such a formula should probably relate to the length of roads in
poor and bad condition.)



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
(c) Routine and periodic maintenance and drainage improvement works
should be planned and budgeted link-by-link, using a schedule of
quantities and rates, on which monitoring and loan reimbursement
should be based. However, emergency works saould be budgeted by
district, under the category of landslip removal, temporary bridge-
works and repair of flood damage. Terms such as "emergency works"
or "contingencies" should not be allowed in the district budgets, as
they would indicate excessive flexibility.
(d) In line with this, it is proposed that separate teams of workers
should carry out routine and periodic maintenance and drainage
improvements, with separate equipment units, separate reporting and
monitoring and separate budget categories (within the one program,
Inpres Kabupaten). As noted under section 1 (d) above, administra-
tive simplicity requires that as much uniformity as possible be pre-
served between procedures relating to these budget categories.
(e) Planning of periodic maintenance and drainage improvement works
should be closely coordinated with planning of rehabilitation/
improvement works for the following year, to avoid overlap.
(f) Maintenance planning surveys should be oriented to identifying road
deficiencies, for which special inventory forms should be used. For
monitoring purposes, maintenance planr.ing surveys should also
include adequate identification of link and location.
(g) Roads should enter the routine maintenance program in the year
following completion of construction, which would require a change
in current policy requiring a waiting period of two years.
(h) The maintenance guarantee period required under construction
contracts should be lengthened from one month to three months
following the inspection at which 100% completion is certified, and
should be subject to 10% retention rather than the 5% as at present.
(i) The above maintenance strategy should be reviewed annually before
preparation of the following year's maintenance works programs.
B. Proposed Maintenance Program
3.        Attachment 2 shows how the three year program has been estimated.
Unit costs of drainage improvement, periodic and routine maintenance have been
kept separate. Estimated unit costs of periodic maintenance overlays allow
for the alternatives of penetration macadam or cold mix asphalt surface
regulation. The estimated time cycle for periodic maintenance is 4 years.
4.        Attachment 2 also includes the estimated lengths of rehabilitation/
improvement works to be carried out on the various road condition cate-
gories.



ANNEX 5
-60-                          Attachment I
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maintenance Works
Maintenance Category
Drainage
Road element    Activity                  Routine  improv.   Periodic  Carried out by
Pavement of     Pothole repair                x                            Roadman/gang
unsealed        Depression repair                                  x            Gang
roads           Regrading                     x                             Gang/grader
Regraveling                                       x            Gang
Pavement of     Pothole repair                x                             Roadman/gang
sealed roads    Depression repair                                  x            Gang
Surface treatment                                 x            Gang
Resurfacing/leveling /a                           x            Gang
Drainage        Clean drains/culverts         x                             Roadman/gang
Culvert repair                         x                       Gang
Ditch repair                           x                       Gang
Roadside        Vegetation control            x                                 Gang
Grass cutting                x                             Roadman/gang
Grade shoulders                                   x            Gang
Remove debris                x                    x        Roadman/gang
Bridges         Clean channels                x                            Roadman/gang
Clean bridge deck            x                             Roadman/gang
Repair minor damage                               x            Gang
Paint steel bridges                               x            Gang
Miscellaneous   Traffic signs                 x                             Roadman/gang
Public installations         x                             Roadman/gang
Sundries        New ditches                            x                        Gang
New culverts                           x                       Gang
Bridge repairs                                    x            Gang
Repairs to miscellaneous                          x            Gang
structures
/a Resurfacing/leveling of sealed road surfaces to be carried out using coldmix
asphalt or penetration macadam.



ANNEX 5
Attachment 2
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline of Rehabilitation/Improvement and Maintenance Program
Road             1988/89 Works (km)                1989/90 Works (km)               1990/91 Works (km)
condition    Rehab/  Rout.  D'rain   Overlay  Rehab/ Rout.  Drain   Overlay  Rehab/  Rout.  Drain  Overlay
category     improv  maint  improv  regrav   improv  maint  improv  regrav   improv  maint  improv regrav
Good seal:
New                                                  1,500                             2,725
Existing            1,000     500                    1,400      500     s"0            1,760            500
fair seal:      500  1,000   1,000       500      300  1,400   1,400      500       300  1,500   1,500    500
Sad seal:       500                               700                              700  2,740   2,740
Total Seal  1.000  2,000   1.500      500    1,000  4,300   1.900   1,000   1,000  8.725   4,240  1,000
Good gravel:
New                                                    500                             1,175
Rxisting              500     500                      950        0     500    1,355             500
Fair gravel     500  1,000   1,000       500      300  1,500   1,500      500      200  1,500   1,500    500
Bad gravel      300                               400  1,000   1,000               300  4,214   4,214
Total gravel  800  1,500   1,500      500       700  3,950   2,500   1,000       500  3.244   5,714  1.000
Total earth   200                               300                              500
TOTAL      2,000  3.500   3,000   1.000    2,000  8.250   4,400   2.000    2,000 16,969   9.954  2,000
Maintenance Cost Estimates
Routine  Drain.   Overlay    Routine  Drain.    Overlay    Routine  Drain.    Overlay
Basic Costs       maint-   improve    &          maint-   improve      &        maint-   improve      &
(Rpm/km)         enance    ment    regrav.    enance       sent    regrav.    enance       cent    regrav.
(June        Sealed     0.435    2.00    10.755        0.435     2.00    10.755       0.435      2.00    10.755
1987)
Unsealed     0.945    2.00      3.860      0.945      1.50     3.860       0.945     1.50      3.860
Total Costs  (Rp m)      2.288   6,000      7,308      5,603    7,550    14,615       11.586   17,051    14.615
(usS m)      1.49    3.64       4.47       3.40      4.50      8.86        7.02    10.33       8.86
Grand Total (US$ m)             $9.45 m                       $16.83 m                        $26.21 m



-62-                           ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 9
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Labor-Intensive Pilot Scheme
Background
1.        Traditional labor-intensive methods are widely used in Indonesia for
construction and maintenance of rural roads and other small-scale public
works. Reas ns for this include the shortage of equipment and the difficulty
in keeping equipment in working condition in the rural areas as well as the
ready supply of inexpensive labor in most parts of Indonesia. Government
policy aims at maintaining the use of labor-intensive methods where such
methods are suitable and limiting the use of capital-intensive technology to
activities for which no labor-intensive technology is available or to areas
where manpower is very scarce.
2.        The traditional methods have, however, remained basically the same
for decades since no systematic efforts have been made to improve them. The
results are that the quality of construction and maintenance leaves much to be
desired and that labor-intensive construction is not as cost competitive with
equipment as it could and should be considering the low cost of manual labor.
3.        Based on experience from Bank and IIO assisted rural roads projects
in other developing countries there is considerable potential for improvement
in both the quality and efficacy of the labor-intensive methods employed in
Indonesia. A trial and demonstration pilot component has therefore been
included in the project to develop and introduce improved techniques, super-
vision and organization for labor-based construction/improvement and main-
tenance of kabupaten roads.
Objectives
4.        The objectives of the pilot component are:
(a) the adoption and replication of techniques, supervision and
organization of kabupaten road construction and improvement best
suited to the resource endowments of Indonesia; and
(b) the adoption and replication of techniques, management systems and
budgetary arrangements suitable for a sustained program of routine
maintenance of kabupaten roads.
5.        The pilot component will be carried out over a period of 27
months. (Start will depend on timing of loan effectiveness.)



-63-                          ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 9
Scope
6.        The main features of the pilot component are:
(a)  experimentation and trials with alternative labor-based construction
methods, improved hand tools, intermediate equipment and
organization/supervision in connection with the rehabilitation/
improvement of about 80 km of district roads; the work will be
implemented by force account in four districts; viz. Bogor and
Subang in West Java province and Pontianak and Sambas in West
Kalimantan province;
(b)  trials with labor-based techniques and corresponding management and
reporting systems for routine maintenance operations on about 100 km
of different types and standards of kabupaten roads in the same four
districts as mentioned above;
(c)  provision of handtools and equipment for the experimental
construction/ improvement and maintenance works; these tools and
equipment form an essential and integral part of the trials and the
development work and full flexibility is therefore required in
respect of design and specifications, before as well as during the
implementation. The International Labor Organization (ILO), who
would be executing agency for the technical assistance, would assist
the government in the procurement of tools and equipment for the
pilot component.
(d) a technical assistance team that would:
(i) plan, direct, monitor, evaluate and report on the experimental
construction and maintenance work;
ii)  prepare detailed tools and equipment specifications and revise
them as necessary in the course of the implementation;
(iii)  study the local manufacturing capability of tools and equipment
and make recommendations on how it can be increased and
improved to raise the share of locally manufactured hardware;
(iv) carry out a comprehensive study of cost, output and
productivity and quality data of different construction and
rmiaintenance techniques including those currently used and those
developed by the trial and demonstration program;
(v) provide on-the-job training to the concerned kabupaten staff in
the planning and implementation of labor-based work (this would
be in addition to the training provided under the main
component of the Project) and organize an overseas study tour
on this subject for senior staff;
(vi) prepare an action plan for the Government's consideration on
how and to what extent improved labor-based techniques and



-64-                           ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 9
related management systems could be suitably introduced on a
wider scale on force account work as well as by contractors.
Description
7.        Pilot Districts.  The selection of four districts for the pilot
component is a compromise between the desirability of having as large and
representative a base as possible for the trial and demonstration program and
the necessity of keeping the program small enough to be closely supervised by
a team of consultants that could not be made very large. The two provinces of
West Java and West Kalimantan were chosen because both are easily accessible
from Jakarta and they represent different levels of population density, road
network characteristics, DPUK staff and equipment availability and insti-
tutional capacity. Between them the four districts also represent different
types of terrain and, to some extent, soil conditions.
8.        Rehabilitation/Improvement Program.  The pilot component will
include earth, gravel and sealed roads. The emphasis will be on roads in the
lower range of existing or anticipated traffic volumes. Transmigration and
NES roads may be included if they are under district jurisdiction.
Construction of new roads may be included if the Bappeda/DPUK can demonstrate
their viability on economic or socio-economic grounds. The construction
standards will be the same as for the main component of the Rural Roads II
project although the design may be altered to better suit labor-based
techniques.
9.        Rehabilitation/improvement under the pilot component will start
during the 1989/90 fiscal year. A list of suitable roads will be prepared
between March and August 1988 by each of the four districts. Main
criteria/priorities would be:
(a) assured supply of labor (order of 150-400 workers depending on the
volume of work) preferably within daily commuting distance (labor
camps will be avoided);
(b) roads with easy access to the DPUK office will be given priority to
facilitate supervision;
(c) roads where road building materials are available within relatively
short hauling distance would be given priority;
(d) if roads are much longer than five km or otherwise contain too much
work to complete within one construction season it should be
acceptable to divide the road in segments which can be completed in
one season; this criteria serves to ensure that complete data from
the road will be timely available;
(e) for the same reason proposed roads should not involve large bridges
or other major work which would substantially delay the compilation
of complete data;



-65-                           AMU  6
Page 4 of 9
(f)  about two thirds of the proposed road should be earth or gravel
roads;
(g) a variety of different terrain conditions is desirable in kabupatens
which offer that possibility.
10.       The PMU or its consultants will appraise the roads proposed by the
districts by August/September 1988. By and large the roads should meet the
main criteria set for the Project. However, in view of the pilot nature of
the component, some flexibility, e.g., in the ERR requirements, will be
allowed. The technical assistance team for the pilot component would then
make the final recommendations for approval by the Government and the Bank
before the end of 1988.
11.       The approved roads would be included in the detailed engineering
design work to be arranged in early 1989. PMU or its consultants would
prepare the normally required tender documents while the technical assistance
team would prepare the special instructions/conditions required by the pilot
nature of the roads and monitor the design work.
12.       The above procedure would be repeated in 1989 and 1990 for the
1990/91 t ial and demonstration program. The total length of roads in the
four kabupatens would amount to about 80 km with about 40 km in each of the
1989/90 and 1990/91 programs.
13.       To ensure that full freedom is retained in respect of experimenta-
tion with different work methods, equipment and organization of the trial and
demonstration program will be implemented through force account. The
recommendations to be prepared by the technical assistance team will, however,
outline how contractors would be encouraged to use improved labor-based
methods in the future. Moreover, contractors will be invited to participate
in suitable training program in 1990/91.
14.       The experimental work will encompass major road construction
activities like earthworks, drainage, pavement and surfacing. Various sources
of power such as manual labor, agricultural tractors and small to intermediate
vehicles and self-propelled equipment will be tried. Different methods of
producing construction materials from different types and sources of raw
material will be tried.
15.       Maintenance Program.  The pilot component will include trials with
and demonstration of labor-based maintenance of gravel and sealed roads. The
technical assistance team will select a total of about 60 km of roads in the
four kabupatens in early 1989 for inclusion in the 1989/90 pilot maintenance
program. In addition to these roads the 1990/91 maintenance program will
include also the roads completed under the previous year's pilot construction
program.
16.       Various methods of organizing maintenance work will be tried.
Possible systems include lengthman system, roving maintenance crews, village-
based systems, contracted maintenance and possibly other. Different traffic
volumes and types of roads are likely to be best served by different systems



-v;6-                        ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 9
of maintenance organization. The trials aim at establishing the appropriate-
ness of different systems under different conditions, their effectiveness and
costs.
17.       The trial and demonstration program will be concerned with routine
maintenance only. The roads selected for the 1989/90 program (existing roads)
must therefore be in good condition at the start of the trials. The aim is to
show that they can be kept in basically the same condition through the
introduction of regular routine maintenance and that good trafficability can
be maintained throughout the period between scheduled periodic maintenance.
18.       Equipment for the Trial and Demonstration Program.  The tools and
equipment that are expected to be tried out are listed beluw. They include
equipment of an experimental nature which are not normally used on road
construction sites in Indonesia (although they are regularly used on
successful labor-based projects in other countries) and some vehicles which
are needed throughout the pilot component by the technical assistance team to
carry out the work. Despite the experimental nature of the pilot component
some standard types of equipment are likely to be used, e.g. trucks for
transport of material (gravel, etc.) over long haul distances. Because of the
uncertainty of the extent to which such equipment will £, needed they are not
included in the equipment procurement list. If the district concerned does
not have such equipment available they will be rented or the work (e.g.,
transport of gravel) will be contracted.
19.       It is in the nature of a trial and demonstration program that all
resource requirements cannot be determined in advance. Some flexibility to
change the specifications and types and numbers of equipment must be
allowed. For this reason the equipment list contains a lump sum for
miscellaneous equipment. That amount will be used also to buy survey and
testing equipment, training equipment, office equipment, etc. The require-
ments of these minor, not construction related, equipment will be estimated
after the arrival of the technical assistance team.
Tentative Equipment List
65-70 HP agricultural tractors
50-55 HP 4 x 4 tractors
Trailers, 2.5 tonne
Sheepsfoot rollers (towed) 2-3 t
Vibratory rollers (towed) 2.5 t
Water bowser (towed) 3,000 1 t
Scraper blade attachment
Hand tillers 10 hp
Light trailers 400 kg
Vibratory rollers (towed) 500 kg
Hand tools
4 x 4 vehicles
Utility pick-ups
Motorcycles



-67-                          ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 9
20.       Technical Assistance.  The planning and supervision of the trial and
demonstration programs and the related training activities require the
services of specially qualified senior experts with experience of efficient
and productive labor-based projects. Such expertise is not available locally
and provision is therefore made for about 63 man-months of senior expatriate
advisors. In addition about 96 man-months of UN Volunteers is provided for.
Two of the senior advisors will be civil engineers to be engaged for the whole
duration of the pilot component (27 months each). One will be stationed in
Jakarta and function as Chief Technical Adviser (Team Leader) and also super-
vise directly the activities in West Java province. The other will supervise
the activities in West Kalimantan province and be stationed in Pontianak.
Short-term senior expatriate advisors will be engaged for, inter alia, pre-
paration of tools and equipment specifications and local manufacturing study.
21.       Local consultants will be engaged for the day-to-day supervision of
the trial and demonstration programs, for data collection in relation to the
various studies of alternative techniques, etc., for compilation and analysis
of data and to serve as instructors in the training of district staff. Local
consultant services will comprise about 140 man-months of civil engineers and
about 140 man-months of clerical/research assistance.
22.       The major tasks of the technical assistance team are given in para.
6.d).
23.       The total base costs of the pilot component, excluding physical and
price contingencies, are tentatively estimated at about US$4.8 million. The
major items are:
US$
Civil works                               2.5 million
Equipment                                 0.6 million
Consulting services                       1.6 million
Training and miscellaneous                0.1 million
Total Project Cost                   4.8 million
Financing
24.       In view of the experimental and pilot nature of this component the
proposed Bank loan would be expected to cover the total cost of the pilot
component.
Implementation
25.       A long list of road links for possible inclusion in the 1989/90
pilot construction program will be prepared according to specified criteria
(para. 9) by the BAPPEDA and DPUK staff in the four pilot districts between
March and August 1988. The PMU or its consultants will appraise the rcads by
August/September 1988 and the technical assistance team will make final recom-
mendations on about 40 km of road links for Government and Bank approval
before the end of 1988 (para. 10). Arrangements for detailed engineering



-68-                           ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 9
design to be monitored by the technical assistance team will be made in earlX
1989 (para. 11). The second year's program (about 40 km) will be prepared by
a similar schedule in 1989 and 1990 (para. 12).
26.       The procurement list and specifications for the tools and equipment
expected to be used in the 1989/90 construction and maintenance pilot programs
will be prepared in October/November 1988 by an equipment specialist member of
the technical assistance team. Procurement will be done from November 1988 to
June 1989.
27.       The DPUKs in the four pilot kabupatens will carry out the
rehabilitation/improvement of the roads through the staff of the DPUK under
the supervision of the CTA or his designated representative.
28.       For the pilot routine maintenance program about 60 km of road links
will be selected in early 1989 by the technical assistance team for approval
by the Government and the Bank and inclusion in the 1989/90 maintenance
budget. In addition to those roads, the 1990/91 maintenance program will also
include the roads completed under the 1989/90 construction/ improvement
program, i.e., about 40 km for a total of about 100 km (para. 15-17). This
plan of action requires that the Government agrees to the allocation of
budgets for routine maintenance of all types of roads immediately after the
completion of construction/improvement.
29.       Taking into account the Government's budget release/funds disburse-
ment procedures, it is expected that experimental maintenance work will start
in May 1989 and experimental construction/improvement work will start in July
1989. Efforts will be made to speed up the procedures for the 1990/91
programs to enable an earlier start by a few months, thereby making better use
of the dry season for construction work.
30.       For each rehabilitation/improvement "project" (road link) the DPUK
need to allocate, on a full-time basis, the following staff:
1    engineer
3-4 foremen/technician
1    surveyor
1    soils/materials test technician
3    administrative/clerical staff
Each kabupaten will implement two or three such "projects" during the first
year and up to four during the second year.
31.       The district of Bogor has assured the appraisal mission that it will
have the required staff available on a full-time basis. The districts of
Subang and Pontianak may need to recruit some additional staff, particularly
engineers, and the district of Sambas will have to recruit about 10 to 15
additional staff members of all categories. The appraisal mission has been
assured that the recruitment of additional staff has been initiated by the
Ministry of Home Affairs and the required number of staff will be available at
the start of the 1989/90 fiscal year, at the latest. It should be noted that
the engineers and most of the foremen must have several years site experience.



-69-                           ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 9
32.       The concerned district staff would participate in the training
program that will be implemented under the main component of the Rural Roads
II project. In addition the technical assistance team will provide special
training in the organization and supervision of efficient labor-based
methods.   The special training will consist of several short class-room
sessions of a few days each interspersed with practical on-the-job training on
site.
33.       The ILO will be appointed as Executing Agency for the entire
technical assistance (T.A.) package. The ILO will provide the expatriate
advisors, subcontract the services of local consultants and assist the
government to procure local and foreign equipment.
34.       The ILO will appoint one of the senior expatriace advisors as its
Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) and team leader. The CTA will report to the PMU
and to ILO.
35.       The senior expatriate advisors including the short-term equipment
specialist will be mobilized in October/November 1988. The local consultants
and the UNVs will be engaged by late 1988 or early 1989 and mobilized in
accordance with the need for their services. This will be determined in
connection with the preparation of the detailed workplan which will be
established jointly by the CTA and the PMU within three months of the CTA's
arrival.
36.       Technical reports, briefly describing and summarizing in figures the
work done (construction, maintenance, experiments, studies, procurement,
training, etc.) will be prepared quarterly. Technical working papers will be
prepared after the completion of trials or studies on subjects which can be
treated as separate issues. Tentative or provisional recommendations to the
Government may be issued when the CTA deems that the results achieved warrant
them but not later than just after the completion of the first construction/
maintenance season. Final draft report and recommendations including an
action plan for future application of labor-based techniques will be prepared
by the CTA at least one month before the termination of his services.
Procurement
37.       Construction/improvement of roads under the pilot component will be
carried out by force account to allow the necessary freedom and flexibility
for experimentation and trials. Certain activities involving the use of
standard type equipment (e.g. the transport of gravel, etc., over long
distances where tractors and trailers would be uneconomical) might be done by
subcontracts at the discretion of the CTA, the PMU and the DPUK, if the
kabupaten does not posses or cannot rent the necessary standard equipment.
38.       Routine maintenance work under the pilot component may be carried
out under a variety of different force account and contract arrangements
(para. 16). A program for trials with different systems will be prepared by
the CTA for approval by the PMU and the DPUKs.



ANNEX 6
-70-                         Page 9 of 9
39.       Foreign consultants' services will be provided by the ILO in
accordance with terms of reference to be agreed by the GOI and the Bank.
Disbursement and Auditing
40.       For civil works of the pilot component the procedures would be the
same as for the main component of the Rural Roads II project.
Environmental Aspects
41       do adverse environmental effects are anticipated through the
execution of the pilot component since the use of labor based methods and
small equipment will reduce to a minimum the disturbance of property and the
noise and air pollution along the construction sites.



-71-                         ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 28
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Services
I. INTRODUCTION
The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible ;for provincial
and district administration in Indonesia, and is also responsible for
implementation of public works funded through the Inpres (Presidential
Instruction) programs. Two Inpres programs apply to district roadworks,
namely Inpres Kabupaten (a per capita grant which, because of Indonesia's
uneven population distribution, applies mostly to districts in Java) and
Inpres Jalan (specifically for roadworks, and oriented to districts outside
Java partly to redress the imbalance of Inpres Kabupaten). Within MHA, the
Directorate General of Regional Development (Bangda) is responsible for the
above Inpres programs, and the Directorate General of Regional Government
(PUOD) is responsible for provincial and district administrative and
organization.
The Ministry of Public Works is the central government agency
responsible for major public works, and within it, the Directorate General of
Highways (Bina Marga) is the highway authority. Bina Marga is responsible for
assisting MHA on technical aspects of district road development, and
participates on a Steering Committee for Rural Roads chaired by Bappenas, the
National Planning Authority.
Bina Marga and Bangda staff are seconded to a Project Management
Unit (PMU) which on behalf of the Director General of Bangda is responsible to
the implementation and monitoring of all aspects of foreign-funded rural Roads
programs including preparation of technical guidelines, and implementation of
institutional government.
With regard to the rural road sector, the major objectives of
Indonesia's Fourth Five Year Plan (1984/85 to 1988/89) are to: (a) enhance
economic development in rural areas; (b) provide better mobility to rural
communities; (c) increase accessibility in isolated areas by providing all
weather Roads; (d) strengthen the capability of district staff to plan,
construct and maintain the district road network; and (e) introduce suitable
techniques and works methods for road construction and maintenance.
In line with this, the long-term objective of the planning
arrangements is that the districts should be able to survey and evaluate
projects and plan their own works prog-ams following rational planning
procedures with only limited guidance and sample vetting from higher level
agencies. Likewise, the long-term objectives of field technical assistance is
that district staff should be able to carry out, monitor and control road



-72-                         ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 28
construction and maintenance work themselves, supported by consistent and
clear guidance from higher levels.
In 1986 the Government of Indonesia received a loan (No. 2083-IND)
from the World Bank for a Rural Roads Development Project (Rural Roads 1, RR
1) including provision for civil works such as road upgrading and support
works, equilment acquisition and technical assistance in various technical and
management areas. The scope of the Project included 25 districts spread over
the Provinces of North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Bengkulu, Jambi and West Java,
assistance beginning in 1982/83.
The Government is now discussing with the World Bank the possibility
of another loan for an additional 53 or so districts spread over 9
provinces. The proposed Rural Roads 2 project (RR 2) is plannned to begin in
1988/89, and continue during the following two years. The project would
include assistance for rehabilitation/improvement, routine and periodic
maintenance in the 53 districts. The 25 ex-RR 1 districts would also be
include in the scope of maintenance programs during the three year RR 2
Project period. All 78 districts are listed in Annex 1, while the estimated
scope of works is given in Table 3.2.
In the light of experience from the RR 1 Project, the Government and
the World Bank have reached agreement that during the RR 2 Project, more
rigorous standards will be applied to planning, design and construction
supervision of rural Roads, and that institutional strengthening and
structured training is required consistent with the Government's objectives
stated above.
It is expected that rehabilitation/improvement works will be
budgetted through Inpres Jalan, while road maintenance will be funded
primarily from the Inpres Kabupaten budget. It is the Government's intention
that planning and implementation of the rural Roads maintenance program should
be improved, and consultant technical assistance and training for the
districts on preparation of detailed maintenance works programs will be
required.
Because of the difficulty of obtaining good quality works from small
local contractors during RR rl, most of the proposed RR 2 works will be
grouped into packets for implementation by large contractors (those eligible
for works of Rp 200 million or over). In addition, part of the program will
be carried out by force account, including routine maintenance and some
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation/improvement works. These works will
be the medium for practical training of district staff, for which consultant
technical assistance and roadworks equipment is to be provided under the RR 2
project.
The Project Management Unit is responsible for coordination and
monitoring of all activities on foreign funded rural Roads projects, as well
as planning activities in preparation for the RR 2 Project. The PMU will also
be responsible for coordination and consistency of actions to be taken to
realign duties and responsibilities of all agencies involved in the rural
Roads program throughout Indonesia, following Instructions and Guidelines



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 28
issued by the Minister of Home Affairs and the Director General of Regional
Development in May 1987.
Coordination of such re-alignment will follow an action plan to be
prepared and agreed between the Government and the World Bank. The action
plan will cover identification of present roles and staffing at all levels,
preparation of modifications to roles of the various agencies, staff
reallocation, recruitment and training.
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
The Government proposes to engage the services of an international
consulting firm (the Consultant) to assist the Project Management Unit.
2.1 Objectives
The main objectives of the services are as follows:
Institutional Improvement and Project Monitoring
(a) Assist the Project Management Unit to coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the Instruction of the Minister of Home Affairs
and the Implementation Guidelines of the Director General of
Regional Development issued in May 1987 (refer Annex 2), in line
with the agreed Action Plan.
(b) Assist the Project Management Unit to coordinate and monitor all
aspects of the Rural Roads Project including administration of Loan
disbursements.
Technical Coordination
(c) Assist the Project Management Unit to coordinate consultants
employed on separate contracts to provide technical assistance to
DPUKs, for the training program, and for studies of local
contractors and aspects of Roads for development schemes.
(d) Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit assist Bina
Marga to further develop and implement technical guidelines for all
aspects of rural road and bridge rehabilitation, improvement and
maintenance, including pavement design, development of enhanced use
of locally available materials, and the utilization and maintenance
of equipment.
Transport Planning
(e) Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit assist the
Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in Bipran, Bina Marga to develop over
a period of two years a local capability in participating districts
to survey, analyze, screen and evaluate road projects and to prepare
their own works programs to a consistent and systematic standard.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 28
(f) Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit assist the
Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in Bipran, Bina Marga to review works
programs after completion of design and cost estimates, and to
evaluate the eligibility of projects for proposed World Bank
assistance.
2.2 Organization and Responsibilities
Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit, the
Consultant shall cooperate with the staff of the Directorate General of
Regional Development, the Directorate General of Highways, the Provincial
Works and Provincial Development Bureaux, with the districts and with other
agencies related to the project in carrying out the services.
The team shall be based in Jakarta, and shall be under the control
of a Project Manager appointed by the implementing agency for the services who
shall deal with financial, contractual, administrative, technical and staffing
matters. The Project Manager shall be under the control of the Head of the
PMU.
For certain tasks including where outlined in Section 2.3 below, the
Head of the PMU in consultation with the field consultant's Project Officers
may delegate technical coordination of the field consultants to the
Consultant. The project organization is shown in Annex 8.
The Consultant's role shall not include providing direct technical
guidance to the districts for design and implementation of district road and
bridge works programs, for which separate Technical Assistance Services to
DPUKs (field consultants) will be employed, who will be required to follow
guidelines established by the PMU.
Likewise, the field consultants' role does not include advising on
administrative, procedural or manpower policies, which should be referred to
the PMU, for which the Consultant's assistance may be requested. In relation
to planning matters, the field consultant's role shall be limited to providing
technical guidance on engineering aspects of route selection and design. They
are required to refer matters of economic feasibility or works programs to the
Sub-Directorates of Local Roads in the Planning Directorate (Bipran), Bina
Marga.
The Consultant's duties are expressed in outlined form in section
2.3 below to provide further guidance in respect to overall
responsibilities. Any conflict of opinion arising from the interpretation of
these duties or responsibilities shall be resolved by the Consultant in
consultation with the Project Manager and the PMU.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 28
2.3 Outline of Duties
2.3.1 Institutional Improvement and Project Monitoring
(a) The Consultant shall assist the Head of the PMU to coordinate land
monitor the implementation of the Action Plan for institutional
improvement, including the development and coordination of agency
roles and responsibilities.
(b) Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit the Consultant
shall assist the appointed training management agency to cooperate
with DGRD and DGH Training Divisions to plan and implement
institutional strengthening at central, provincial and district
levels.
(c) In relation to (c), the Consultant shall assist the DGRD and DGH
Training Divisions to carry out their respective roles in planning,
coordinating and monitoring of training for district staff involved
in the rural Roads program.
(d) The Consultant shall assist the Project Management Unit to establish
a system for monitoring and coordination of implementation of the
Action Plan for institutional improvement and shall then assist in
operating the system.
2.3.2 Technical Coordination
(a) The consultant shall assist the Project Management Unit to monitor
the progress of all aspects of the Project, and shall provide the
PMU with systematic routine information on key aspects of the
project, including loan administration. In carrying out this task,
the Consultant shall make best use of data processing facilities,
and shall train PMU staff in operation of the monitoring systems.
(b) Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit the Consultant
shall assist the Operations Directorates of Bina Marga to monitor
and coordinate the field consultant services, to provide them with
timely information on programs, schedules, procedures, guidelines
and key requirements related to their work.
(c) Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit the Consultant
shall assist the Planning and Equipment Directorates in Bina Marga
in technical aspects of rural road and bridge design, construction
and maintenance of Roads and bridges, and in equipment repair and
maintenance. This shall include the following areas:
(i) Development of maintenance standards and survey procedures for
the network of maintainable rural Roads in 78 districts,
collation and assessment of maintenance programs prepared by
the DPUK assisted by the field consultants, and monitoring of
implementation of surveys and maintenance programs.



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 28
(ii) Preparation of standards for planning, design, construction
and maintenance of bridges on district Roads, covering all
rural bridges in the project districts as well as coordination
of bridge surveys to be carried out by the field consultants
and screening of bridge proposals prepared by the field
consultants.
(iii) Further development of standards for planning, design and
construction of pavements on district Roads, including testing
of materials in particular problem areas.
(iv) Overall coordination of force account works and related on-job
training of DPUK staff in 78 districts, including deployment
and utilization of equipment for force account works; overall
coordination of the introduction of construction methods such
as Lasbutag, crushed stone aggregate and cold mix for rural
roadworks, and development of quarry sites and crushing plant
locations.
gv) Establishment of standards of equipment repair and maintenance
throughout the project kabupatens, and coordination of the
services of the field consultants in this area, together with
monitoring of the procurement and distribution of equipment
and spare parts, the provision of equipment and repair and
servicing through the DPUP and DPUK workshops, and monitoring
of the condition of equipment.
2.3.3 TransPort Plannina
Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit, the
Consultant shall assist the Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in Bipran, Bina
Narga to carry out the following tasks:
(a)  Review the results of preparation of the 1988/89 program and develop
and amend as necessary the approach for preparation of the 1989/90
program, bearing in mind that the method of survey and analysis
should be suitable for application by district staff.
(b)  Prepare and explain guidelines for survey, analysis and evaluation
procedures to district staff in a series of training sessions and
seminars.
(c)  Develop criteria for evaluating the capability of district staff to
survey, analyze, screen and evaluate road projects, and report
results to the PMU at least six months before the termination of
services.
(d)  Advise and assist designated staff of DPUK and BAPPEDA II in the
following tasks:
(i) selection of road network planning areas;



-77-                          ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 28
(ii) conduct of planning surveys including link identification and
mapping, road condition and photographic surveys;
(iii) analysis of survey data and screening of projects;
(iv)  evaluation of projects;
(v) preparation of provisional works programs and simple reports
including adequate maps
(vi)  conduct of follow-up and monitoring surveys and analysis.
(e)  Under the coordination of the Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in
Bipran, Bina Marga, Consultant staff based at central and provincial
level shall be responsible for the following tasks:
(i) coordination of planning work at district level and provision
of technical guidelines and advice as needed;
(ii)  conduct of special studies including evaluation of selected
projects not amenable to generalized evaluation.
(iii) sample checking and review of project analysis results and
reports completed by district staff and preparation of works
program summaries.
(iv)  documentation at central level of road network data collected
in the participating districts, in consultation with the PMU
monitoring section;
(v) identification and initiation of follow-up and monitoring
surveys to be carried out by district staff with advice and
guidance from local planning advisors;
(vi)  final review and screening of works programs in the light of
design cost estimates when available;
(vii) further development, updating and amendment, as necessary, of
the guidelines for survey, analysis and evaluation at district
level, including those for transmigration site Roads, in the
light of experience of works program preparation each year.
2.4 Staffing Requirements
The proposed services are to run from April 1, 1988 until 3eptember
30, 1991, by which time the Project Completion Report is expected to have been
completed.
2.4.1 Institutional Improvement and Project Monitoring
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following
professional staff based in Jakarta under the coordination of the Project



-78-                         ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 28
Management Unit to assist the concerned executing agencies in relation to
institutional improvement and project monitoring.
(a)  One Indonesian Project Coordinator responsible for management of all
Indonesian staff in order to foster technology transfer and close
working relationships with the respective expatriate staff.
(b)  One Indonesian Project Coordinator responsible for management of all
Indonesian staff in order to foster technology transfer and close
working relationships with the respective expatriate staff.
(c) One expatriate Training Coordinator to assist the Head of the PMU
coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Action Plan for
institutional improvement for a period of 36 months.
(d) One Indonesian Management Advisor to assist with preparation of job
description of computerized monitoring systems for key aspects of
the project, including loan administration.
(e) One expatriate Monitoring Systems Advisor responsible for further
development of computerized monitoring systems for key aspects of
the project, including loan administration.
(f) One Indonesian Data Processing Manager to be tesponsible for
providing the PMU with systematic routine information, assisting the
PMU prepare documentation for Loan disbursements and providing
..ining of PMU staff in all aspects of the monitoring systems.
(g) Two Tndonesian Computer Programmers to provide computer programming
services for monitoring and planning activities.
(h)  One expatriate Project Assessor responsible for evaluation of
project effectiveness and for preparation of the Project Completion
Report, for a period of six months.
2.4.2 Technical Coordination
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following
professional staff based in Jakarta under the coordination of the Project
Management Unit to assist the concerned Sub-Directorates of Bina Marga in road
and bridge design, construction and maintenance, and in equipment repair and
maintenance.
(a)  One expatriate Techn' al Coordinator responsible for coordination of
the field consultants, and for coordinating the preparation of
technical guidelines for a period of 36 months.
(b) Two Indonesian Highway Engineers to liaise with field services in
Western Region and in Central and Eastern Regions respectively,
under the direction of the Technical Coordinator, each for a period
of 36 months.



-79-.
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 28
(c) One expatriate Road Mainten&nce Advisor responsible for developing
maintenance standards and survey procedures for the network of
maintainable rural Roads in the project districts, and for guiding
the staff listed under (d) for a period of 24 months.
(d)  Three Indonesian Highway Engineers to assist the PMU to collate and
assess maintenance programs prepared by the field consultants and to
m monitor implementation of surveys and maintenance programs each
for a period of 24 months.
(e) One expatriate Bridge Advisor responsible for preparation of
standards for planning, design, construction and maintenance of
bridges on district Roads, and for guiding the staff listed in (f)
for a period of 24 months.
(f)  Two Indonesian Bridge Engineers to assist the PMU to coordinate
bridge surveys, screen bridge proposals and assist in preparing
bridge standards for rehabilitation/improvement and maintenance of
all rural bridges in the project districts, each for a period of 24
months.
(g) One expatriate Pavement Design Advisor responsible for further
development of standards for planning, design and construction and
for guiding listed under (h), for a period of 12 months.
(h) Two Indonesian Pavement Engineers to carry out pavement and
materials investigations and to assist in preparing standards for
rehabilitation/improvement of rural road pavements, each for a
period of 24 months.
'i) One expatriate Construction Advisor responsible for coordination of
force account works and related practical training of DPUK staff in
78 districts, including deployment of equipment for force account
works; responsible for coordinating the introduction of new
materials and methods such as Lasbutag, crushed stone aggregate and
cold mix for rural roadworks, and for guiding the staff listed under
(j), for a period of 18 months.
(j) Three Indonesian Highway Engineers to monitor implementation of
force account works and related practical training of DPUK staff,
and to liaise with the field consultants on introduction of new
materials, methods and equipment for rural roadworks, each for a
period of 24 months.
(k) One expatriate Mechanical Engineering Advisor responsible for
establishing standards of equipment repair and maintenance
throughout the project kabupatens, for coordinating the services of
the field consultants in this area, and for guiding the staff listed
under (1).
(1) Two Indonesian Mechanical Engineers to monitor the procurement and
distribution of equipment and spare parts, the provision of



-80-                         ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 28
equipment repair and servicing through the DPUK workshops in the
three Regions and to monitor the condition of equipment procured
under the project, each for a period of 18 months.
2.4.3 Transport Planning
The Consultant shall provide the following professional staff for 24
months based in Jakarta unless otherwise specified, and under the coordination
of the Project Management Unit to assist the Suo-Directorate of Local Roads in
Bipran, Bina Marga on transport planning activities.
(a) One expatriate Transport Planning Coordinator with overall
responsibility for.duties described in 2.3.2
(b) Three Indonesian Economist to carry out economic analysis and
eval4ation for the central PMU planning team.
(c) Two expatriate Regional Transport Planning Coordinators based in a
Provincial capital, one in Western and one in Central or Eastern
Region, to be responsible for coordination of field planning
advisor's work (2.3.2 (e)) and provision of technical guidelines and
advice, review of project analysis results and reports completed by
district staff and for preparation of works program summaries.
(d) Eight Indonesian Field Planning Advisors, four based in Western
Region, and two each in Central and Eastern Regions shall advise and
assist staff of DPUX and BAPPEDA II in the conduct of planning
surveys, analysis of survey data, screening and evaluation of
projects and preparation of works programs.
(e) One expatriate Transmigration Coordinator responsible for
coordination of field planning advisor's work (2.3.2 (e)) and
provision of technical guidelines and advice, for conduct of special
studies, and for sample checking and review of project analysis
results and preparation of works program summaries for Roads to
transmigration sites.
(f) Two Indonesian Transmigration Planning Advisors, one based in South
Sumatra and one in Lampung, to advise and assist staff of DPUKand
BAPPEDA II in the conduct of planning surveys, analysis of survey
data, screening and evaluation of projects and preparation of works
programs in relation to Roads for transmigration sites.
(g) One expatriate Planning Engineering Advisor responsible for
development and documentation of systematic costing methods for
rural roadworks and for guiding the local staff under (h).
(h) Three Indonesian Highway Engineers to coordinate and monitor the
implementation of costing systems for rural roadworks in Western,
Central and Eastern Regions respectively.



-81-                         ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 28
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DPUKS
The Government proposes to engage the services of three separate
international consulting firms to provide advisory services, technical
assistance and training to. 78 selected district works agencies (DPUKs) in
Western, Central and Eastern Regions of Indonesia.
Western Region includes 42 districts in 7 provinces in Sumatera,
including Aceh, North Sumatera, West Sumatera, Jambi and Bengkulu, South
Sumatera and Lampung.
Central Region includes 20 districts in West Java Province.
Eastern Region includes 16 districts in 3 provinces, namely Central
Sulawesi, West Kalimantan and N.T.T. (Nusa Tenggara Timur).
Districts involved are detailed in Annex 1, and the estimated scope
of works by Province is detailed in Table 3.2.
3.1 Objectives
The main objectives of the services are, in cooperation with the
Dinas Bina Marga (DBM) and the Provincial Public Works Agency (DPUP) to:
(a) Assist the DPUKs to implement road and bridge rehabilitation and
improvement works, from design to supervision, and assist the DPUKs
to program and implement road and bridge maintenance,
(b) Carry out practical training of district staff in all aspect of
rural road construction and maintenance.
(c) Monitor and certify designs and completed works, and provide
information as required by the Project Management Unit to facilitate
disbursement of Bank-funded works.
In general, the Consultant shall act in consistency with the
instruction of the Minister of Home Affairs and the Implementation Cuidelines
of the Director General of Regional Development issued in May 1987 (refer to
Annex 2).
3.2 Organization and Responsibilities
Under the overall coordination of the Project Management Unit, the
Consultant teams shall work under the administrative, financial, contractual
and technical control of the Heads of the Sub-Directorates of Local Roads in
the Western, Central or Eastern Regional Operations Directorates of Bina
Marga, who will appoint a Project Manager. The Project Manager shall be under
the control of the Head of the PMU in relation to the implementation of these
Services.



-82-                        ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 28
The Consultant shall cooperate with the staff of district agencies,
Provincial Public Works Departments and Provincial Development Bureaux, with
the central level Project Management Unit and with other agencies related to
the project. In providing technical guidance to the DPUKs, the Consultant
shall keep the respective DPUP fully informed.
The Consultant shall also cooperate with the consultants appointed
under separate contract for PMU advisory services. For certain tasks
including where outlined in Section 3.3 below, the Head of the PMU in
consultation with the Project Officer may delegate coordination of the
Consultant's work to the PMU consultants. The project organization is shown
in Annex 8.
The Consultant's team leader shall exercise overall control of the
consultant staff employed in the field, and provide them with the necessary
facilities and services as provided for under the contract.
The Consultant's primary role shall be to provide technical guidance
for design and implementation of district road and bridge works programs.
Where assistance is requested on administrative, procedural or manpower
policies, the Consultant shall refer to the PMU. The Consultant's role on
planning matters shall. be limited to providing technical guidance on
engineering aspects of route selection and design. They shall refer matters
of economic feasibility or works programs to the PMU.
The Consultant's duties are expressed in outlined form in section
3.3 below to further guide him in respect to his responsibilities. Any
conflict of opinion arising from the interpretation of these duties or
responsibilities shall be resolved by the Consultant in consultation with the
Project Officer and the PMU.
3.3 Outline of Duties
Under the coordination of the Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in the
Western, Central or Eastern Regional Operations Directorate of Bina Marga at
central level and DPUP at provincial level, the Consultant shall assist the
District Public Works Agencies (DPUKs) in the following tasks:
(a) After draft works programs have been prepared by the DPUKs and
BAPPEDA IIs and approved for design by the central government, the
Consultant shall assist and provide technical guidance to the DPUKs
included for rehabilitation/improvement programs (listed in Annex 1)
to carry out detailed engineering surveys and design for each year's
rehabilitation/improvement program based on procedures to be issued
by Bina Marga.
(b) The Consultant shall be responsible for certifying the design
drawings and quantity estimates to signify compliance with Bina
Marga's technical standards, however, the drawings and estimates
shall be finally authorized by district staff. Where parts of the
designs are not in compliance with the technical standards, the
Consultant shall inform the Head of the DPUK, as responsible officer
for the civil works.



-83-                          ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 28
(c)  The Consultant shall assist each of the DPUKs to prepare technical
specifications for the works to be constructed under the 1988/89 to
1990/91 programs in each district.  Draft specifications shall be
discussed first by the Consultant with the PMU, and in general
should be based on standard rural Roads specifications as approved
by Bina Marga. The estimated scope of rehabilitation/improvement
works is shown in Table 3.2.
(d)  The Consultant shall assist the Tender Committees in each of the
DPUKs to evaluate technical aspects and provide technical advice in
relation to tenders submitted for the 1988/89 to 1990/91 programs.
(e)  The Consultants shall review the procedural requirements of contract
documents in use in each district, and recommend to the Project
Management Unit what changes in documentation, procedures or
supervision may be required in future to encourage proper
implementation of district road and bridge works and carried out by
contract.
(f)  The Consultant shall assist each of the DPUKs to monitor progress of
civil works implemented under the Project in each district, and the
District Engineer (see para. 5.2 (b)) shall countersign the monthly
progress reports (Form DJ-1) prepared by the DPUK, and the Payment
Certificates (Berita Acara), to certify agreement with the progress
reported therein. Where parts of the works are not in the
compliance with the specifications, the Consultants shall inform the
Head of the DPUK, as responsible officer for the civil works.
(g)  In order to record quantity and quality of works as a basis for
certification, the Consultant shall provide daily full-time
inspection on each rehabilitation/improvement project.
(h)  The Consultant shall assist DPUK supervisory staff to employ the
correct standards and procedures for materials testing and works
quality control using laboratory equipment provided under the
Project to each district.
(i)  In accordance with guidelines prepared by the Project Management
Unit, the Consultant shall assist the DPUKs included for maintenance
programs (listed in Annex 1) to carry out surveys and prepare road
maintenance programs for each district, emphasizing routine and
periodic maintenance on Roads in good and fair condition, and shall
report to the Project Management Unit on current and proposed
maintenance programs.
(j) The Consultant shall concentrate particular effort on providing
technical advice and assistance to DPUK staff on force account
projects as a medium for practical training, and shall encourage
DPUK supervisory staff to keep daily diaries and measurement books
with records of (e.g.) materials delivered and work done, equipment
usage and availability, and problems met and solved, together with



-84-                          ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 28
weekly comparison with planned work schedule. The Consultant's
inspectors shall use similar diaries on contract inspection.
(k)  The Consultant shall conduct a mixture of formal (20%) and practical
(80%) training for about 20 technical staff from each DPUK including
supervisors, surveyors, laboratory technicians, tradesmen and
operators, using training opportunities on force account projects,
operator training grounds, DPUK workshops, laboratories and other
facilities. In carrying out this training, the Consultant shall be
coordinated by the Project Management Unit, shall use training
materials where provided by Bina Marga's Training Centre, and shall
cooperate with the Provincial level training officials who are
responsible for formal training.
(1)  The Consultant shall provide technical and management advice to the
DPUPs and DPUKs on distribution, deployment and utilization of any
available roadworks equipment for construction or maintenance and
shall assist in preparing and updating equipment schedules. The
Consultant shall also assist the DPUPs and DPUKs on operation,
management and maintenance of roadworks and workshop equipment.
(m)  The Consultant shall provide general technical guidance and advice
as requested by DPUKs or DPUPs concerning improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance of district Roads that are funded
from Inpres Jalan and Inpres Kabupaten but without Bank assistance.
(n)  The Consultant shall recommend to the Project Management Unit where
he considers it necessary for guidelines to be issued for
implementation of technical aspects of district road and bridge
works, or for design standards. All technical and administrative
guidelines and standards shall be issued by the Central Government.
(o)  The Consultant shall assist the DPUKs to update the district's base
road maps, based on guidelines to be issued by the PMU.
(p)  The Consultant shall, in carrying out the duties outlined and in
accord with the intent and objectives of the Government and the
World Bank expressed in para. 1., assist the PMU, the DPUPs and the
DPUKs in the implementation of the programs for institutional
strengthening and technology transfer through technical guidance and
formal, counterpart and practical training for which the PMU and
Diklat Bina Marga have line responsibility.
3.4 Staffing Requirements
The Consultant shall provide the services of:
(a) One expatriate Team Leader responsible for all consultancy services
under this Terms of Reference reside in Jakarta and travel regularly
within the project region.



-85-                         ANNEX 7
Page 15 of 28
(b)  Ten expatriate District Engineers, two each based in the Provincial
capitals of Aceh, North Sumatera and South Sumat.ra and one each
based in the Provincial capitals of West Sumatera, Jambi, Bengkulu
and Lampung, all travelling at least 15 days per month within the
districts.
(c)  Five expatriate Mechanical Advisors, one each based in the
Provincial capitals of Aceh, North Sumatera, West Sumatera, South
Sumateria and Lampung, each for a period of 24 months. The Advisors
based in Padang and Palembang shall oversee the services of the
Mechanical Engineers (see 3.4.1.f) based in Bengkulu and Jambi
respectively.
(d) One Indonesian highway engineer as Field Coordir.ator in Jakarta.
(e)  Fourteen Indonesian professional Field Engineers; 3 for Aceh, 2 for
North Sumatera, 2 for West Sumatera, 1 for Bengkulu, 2 for Jambi, 2
for South Sumatera, and 2 for Lampung, based in a district or
provincial capital and travelling at least 20 days per mosith in the
districts.
(f)  Ten Indonesian professional Mechanical Engineers; 2 for Aceh, 2 for
North Sumatera, 1 for West Sumatera, 1 for Bengkulu;, 1 for Jambi, 2
for South Sumatera, and 1 for Lampung, based in a district or
provincial capital and travelling at least 20 days per month in the
districts, each for a period of 30 months.
(g)  Ten qualified Indonesian master mechanics and ten master operators,
each for a period of 24 months.
(h)  Twenty nine qualified Indonesian technicians, including laboratory/
soils technicians and qualified surveyors, each for a period of 24
months.
(i)  One Indonesian inspector for each road or bridge project, for an
estimated period of 6 months per average 6.5 km project. Attachment
2 to Annex 5 shows the estimated length of the works program in each
year.
(j)  One Indonesian Training Officer to coordinate the implementation of
practical training carried out under the services.
3.4.2 Central Region
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following staff for
a period of 36 months unless otherwise stated:
(a)  One expatriate Team Leader responsible for all consultancy services
under this Terms of Reference.
(b) Two expatriate District Engineers, all travelling at least 15 days
per month within the districts.



-86-                         ANNEX 7
Page 16 of 28
(c)  Two expatriate Mechanical Advisors, both for a period of 24 months.
(d) One Indonesian highway engineer as Field Coordinator based in
Jakarta.
(e) Seven Indonesian professional Field Engineers, based in a district
or the provincial capital and travelling at least 20 days per month
in the districts.
(f) Three Indonesian professional Mechanical Engineers, based in a
district or the provincial capital and travelling at least 20 days
per month in the districts, each for a period of 30 months.
(g) Eight qualified Indonesian master mechanics and eight master
operators, each for a period of 24 months.
(h) Thirteen qualified Indonesian technicians, including laboratory
/soils technicians and qualified Indonesian surveyors, each for a
period of 24 months.
(G) One Indonesian inspector for each road or bridge project, for an
estimated period of 6 months per average 6.5 km project. the
estimated total length of the terks program in each year is shown in
Attachment 2 to Annex 5.
(j) One Indonesian Training Officer to coordinate the implementation of
practical training carried out under the services.
3.4.3 Eastern Region
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following staff for
a period of 36 months unless otherwise stated:
(a) One expatriate Team Leader responsible for all consultancy services
under this Terms of Reference.
(b) Six expatriate District Engineers, two each based in the Provincial
capitals of Central Sulawesi, NTT and West Kalimantan, all
travelling at least 15 days per month within the districts.
(c) Three expatriate Mechanical Advisors, one each based in the
Provincial capitals of Central Sulawesi, NTT and West Kalimantan,
each for a period of 24 months.
(d) One Indonesian highway engineer as Field Coordinator based in
Jakarta.
(e) Eleven Indonesian professional Field Engineers, based in a district
or provincial capital and travelling at least 20 days per month in
the districts.



-87-                          ANNEX 7
Page 17 of 28
(f) Six Indonesian professional Mechanical Engineers, based in a
district or provincial capital and travelling at least 20 days per
month in the districts, each for a period of 30 months.
(g) Seven qualified Indonesian master mechanics and seven master
operators, each for a period of 24 months.
(h) Eighteen qualified Indonesian technicians, including laboratory!
soils technicians and qualified Indonesian surveyors, each for a
period of 24 months.
(i) One Indonesian inspector for each road or bridge project, for an
estimated period of 6 months per average 6.5 km project. The
estimated total length of the works program in each year is shown in
Attachment 2 to Annex 5.
(j) One Indonesian Training Officer to coordinate the implementation of
practical training carried out under the services.
IV. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR TRAINING
4.1 Objectives
4.1.1  General Objectives
(a) The principle objective is that all training and manpower
development inputs for the rural Roads program shall be consistent
with accomplishing institutional improvement and the long-term
national objectives set out in the Ministerial Decree and Director-
General of Bangda's implementation Guidelines (refer to Annex 2)
aimed at achieving district self-sufficiency to manage, plan,
administer, design, construct and maintain the district's road
networks to acceptable standards.
(b) The second general objective is to establish a comprehensive
training and manpower development program which can be continued by
the districts on an ongoing and nationwide basis to maintain
district self-sufficiency in the road sector once self-sufficiency
is established.
(c) The third general objective is to develop and strengthen the
relevant training organizations at district, provincial and central
level to achieve a professional capacity and adequate resource
capability to manage training for a sustained long-term manpower
development program.
4.1.2 Specific Objectives
The Government proposes that the following training inputs and
development of training resources should be provided under the Second Rural
Roads Project;



-88-                          ANNEX 7
Page 18 of 28
Overseas Training
(a)  Short (3 month) overseas study programs for about 80 DPUK and DPUP
technical and management staff at suitable organizations with an
emphasis on study areas in the fields of Project Management and
Administration, Transport Planning, and Road Maintenance.
(b)  Academic upgrading for about 10 DCH or DPUP staff through Masters
level (2 year) courses in the fields of Transport Plar.r.ing and
Transport Economics at a suitable institute overseas.
In-Country Training
(c) Strengthening of the present DGRD and DGH Training Divisions at
Central and Provincial levels to provide a comprehensive approach to
meet the training needs of the rural sector, and to implement the
training program.
(d) Five certificate courses in Highway Engineering of 3 to 4 months
duration at the Institute of Technology, Bandung for about 25 DPUK
and DPUP engineers.
(e) Five certificate courses in Bridge Engineering of 3 to 4 months
duration at the Institute of Technology, Bandung for about 25 DPUK
and DPUP engineers.
(f) Formal courses of 4 week's duration for about 350 senior DPUK staff
at Bina Marga and Bangda training centers in Jakarta covering about
12 topics including Project Management, Transport Planning and
Methods of Instruction.
(g) Formal courses of 1 week's duration for about 1,330 DPUK staff at
Provincial Training Centers covering courses including Construction
Management, Road and Bridge Design, Workshop Management, and
Training Management.
(h) A mixture of formal (20%) and practical (805) training for about
1,600 DPUK technical staff including supervisors, surveyors,
laboratory technicians, tradesmen and operators, using training
opportunities on force account projects, operator training grounds,
DPUK workshops, laboratories and other facilities.
(i) Updating of present curricula for training courses listed under
4.1.2 (d) (e) and (f) and development of new courses where required.
(j) Upgrading of training center resources, training aids and library
facilities, at Central and Provincial levels. It is not anticipated
that new buildings will be required.



-89-
ANNEX 7
Page 19 of 28
4.2 Scope of Services
Training inputs for institutional improvement and strengthening of
central training facilities and organizations (4.1.2 (c) and (j) will be
provided under separate consultant services to the PMU, while practical
training in the district (4.1.2 (h)) will be assisted under separate
consultant services to the DPUKs.
To assist the Government to provide and coordinate the training
courses to to be conducted overseas and in-country, the Government proposes to
engage the services of an international consulting firm. The duties of the
Consultant would be as follows:
(a) Assist MPW, DGH and DGRD to arrange overseas training courses as
described under 4.1.2 (a) and (b) above.
(b) Assist MPW, DGH and DGRD to improve the existing MPW, DGH and MHA
formal training programs for technical and administrative staff of
districcs and provinces concerned with district Roads, and in
particular for the courses described under 4.1.2 (d) to (g) above.
Improvements should be based )n a pilot study to be completed by
January 1988.
4.3 Organization and Responsibilities
Under the overall coordination of the Project Management Unit, the
Consultant teams shall work under the administrative, technical, financial and
contractual control of the Head of the Training Center of Bina Marga who will
appoint a Project Officer.
The Consultant shall cooperate with the staff of district agencies,
Provincial Public Works Departments and Provincial Development Bureaux, with
the central level Project Management Unit and with other agencies related to
the project.
The Consultant shall also cooperate with the consultants appointed
under separate contract for PMU advisory services. For certain tasks
including where outlined in Section 4.4 below, the Head of the PHU in
consultation with the Project Officer may delegate coordination of the
Consultant's work to the PMU consultants. The project organization is shown
in Annex 8.
The Consultant's duties are expressed in outlined form in section
4.4 below to further guide him in respect to his responsibilities. Any
conflict of opinion arising from the interpretation of these duties or
responsibilities shall be resolved by the Consultant in consultation with the
Project Officer and the PMU.



-90-                          ANNEX 7
Page 20 of 28
4.4 Outline of Duties
4.4.1 Coordination of Overseas Training
(a)  The Consultant shall assist the Project Management Unit and the DGRD
and DGH Training Divisions to conduct an overseas training program
aimed at longer term upgrading of middle level staff in both DPUPs
and OPUKs. This will include preparation of course curricula,
arrangements for travel, accommodation and course fees for trainees,
orientation including technical English language preparation as
required, and procedures as well as systems for candidate selection
incentive, and placement.
4.4.2  Coordination of In-Country Training
(a) The Consultant shall assist the Project Management Unit and the DGRD
and DGH Training Divisions (Provincial and Central) to implement an
expanded and improved in-country training program for district and
other staff which will follow the guidelines set down in the
Training Development Plan and will in general terms:
(i) develop the technical skill and knowledge of the DPUPs and
DPUKs personnel in each work area to enable them to perform
the tasks identified in their respective job analyses under
normal supervision;
(ii) develop specialized and advanced technical skills and
knowledge of key personnel in each work area to enable them to
supervise and train personnel within their work areas; and
(iii) develop management and supervisory skills and knowledge of
supervisor and management groups to enable them to manage the
rural Roads development program, with the objective that in
the future the DPUKs will be able to be self-sustained in
properly handling planning, construction and maintenance works
on their own road networks.
(c)  The Consultant shall assist the Project Management Unit and the DGRD
and DCH Training Divisions (Provincial and Central) in the
enlargement of the scope and intensity of Provincial and District
Roads training to include certificate level programs for road
engineers and bridge engineers at ITB in Bandung. This will include
the introduction of improvements to procedures and training program
content as well as systems for candidate selection, incentives and
placement.
4.5 Staffing Requirements
The proposed services are to run from July 1, 1988 until the end of
June 1990, following completion of the two-year training program.
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following
professional staff based in Jakarta for 24 months to assist the PMU to review



-91-                           ANNEX 7
Page 21 of 28
and develop training curricula, arrargements for courses and procurement of
training aids:
(a) One expatriate Training Advisor responsible for training and
manpower aspects of the Consultant's tasks in relation to
institutional strengthening and training.
(b) Two Indonesian Training Advisors to assist with course and materials
development in relation to all training activities.
(c) Short term expatriate specialist services in coursa development,
training and curriculum for a total of 24 man-months.
(d) A total of about 73 man-months of Indonesian Course Instructors.
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR STUDIES
The Government proposes to engage the services of an international
consulting firm (the Consultants) to carry out a study of local contractors
and contracting in relation to the rural Roads program, and a study of
improved arrangements for handling Roads built under development schemes
(principally transmigration and plantation schemes).
5.1 Objectives
5.1.1 Study of Local Contractors and Contracting
The main objectives of the study would be to identify what action
should be taken by the Government to upgrade the quality of small-scale
contractors for district roadworks, including procedures used to administer
local contracts.
5.1.2 Study/Review of Roads in Development Schemes
The principal objectives of the study of Roads built under
development schemes would be to review present practices and to recommend
improved arrangements covering aspects of design, construction and maintenance
standards, institutional responsibilities and processes for programming,
budgeting and implementation, and the process of transfer to district or
provincial authorities.
5.2 Organization and Responsibilities
The Consultant teams shall work under the control of the Project
Management Unit. A Project Manager authorized to deal with administrative,
technical, financial and contractual matters shall be appointed by Bina
Marga.  The Project Manager shall be responsible to the Head of :he PMU in
relation to the implementation of these Services.



-92-                        ANNEX 7
Page 22 of 28
The Consultant shall cooperate with the staff of district agencies,
Provincial Public Works Departments and Provincial Development Bureaux, with
the central level Project Management Unit and with other agencies related to
the project.
The Consultant shall also cooperate with the staff of district
agencies, Provincial Public Works Departments and Provincial Development
Bureaux, with the central level Project Management Unit and with other
agencies related to the project.
The Consultant shall also cooperate with the consultants appointed
under separate contract for PMU advisory services. For certain task including
where outlined in Section 5.3 below, the Head of the PMU in consultation with
the Project Officer may delegate coordination of the Consultant's work to the
PHU consultants. The project organization is shown in Annex 8.
The Consultant's duties are expressed in outlined form in section
5.3 below to further guide him in respect to his responsibilities. Any
conflict of opinion arising from the interpretation of these duties or
responsibilities shall be resolved by the Consultant in consultation with the
Project Officer and the PMIU.
5.3 Outline of Duties
5.341 Study of Local Contractors and Contracting
The Consultant shall assist the Project Management Unit to:
(a)  Establish, in the light of contractor prequalification criteria and
the past history of rural road construction standards, the existing
skilled manpower resources and equipment available to representative
Class C and Class B contractors in a pilot group of districts in
selected provinces associated with the Rural Roads 2 Project.
(b)  Identify the manpower and regulatory constraints which prevent the
DPUKs from adequately supervising and instructing the contractors at
the job site.
(c)  Review previous studies and programs aimed at improving contractor
capability in all prequalification classes at national, provincial
and district levels, and assess the impact and effectiveness these
studies and programs have had to date.
(d)  Identify the effect, if any, that force account activities have on
contractor capability in all prequalification classes at national,
provincial and district levels, and assess the impact and
effectiveness these studies and programs have had to date.
(e)  Recommend on the basis of the above, the feasible and acceptable
institutional strengthening processes, organizational and/or
procedural improvements and training inputs which might be necessary
to accomplish a staged and ongoing upgrading of local contractor
skills at District level.



-93-
ANNEX 7
Page 23 of 28
5.3.2 Study/Review of Roads in Development Schemes
Under the coordination of the Project Management Unit, the
Consultant shall assist the Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in the Planning
Directorate of Bina Marga to:
(a) Identify current arrangements for planning and programming of Roads
to serve development schemes, in particular for agricultural and
transmigration schemes, and propose feasible and acceptable
institution strengthening processes, organizational and/or
procedural improvements and training inputs which might be necessary
to provide a consistent approach to that for other rural Roads.
(b) Identify present standards and procedures for design and
construction of Roads serving agricultural and transmigration
schemes, and recommend appropriate standards and improved
arrangements for implementing design and construction of such
roads/or procedural improvements and training inputs which might be
necessary.
(c) Propose appropriate maintenance standards and methods for
development scheme Roads, covering Roads which are still being
planned, Roads which are under construction or already completed,
and Roads already handed over to district or provincial authorities.
(d) Examine the process of transferring such Roads to district and
provincial authorities, and recommend improved procedures, including
adequate budgeting for maintenance and rehabilitation, and
instit'xtional strengthening, organizational and/or procedural
improvements and training inputs which might be necessary.
5.4 Staffing Requirements
5.4.1 Study/Review of Local Contractors and Contracting
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following
professional staff based in Jakarta for 12 months to assist the PMU to carry
out the study of local contractors:
(a) One expatriate Construction Management Advisor responsible for the
implementation of the study described in section 5.3.
(b)  Two Indonesian Highway Engineers, one having experience in
management of a roadworks contracting firm, the other experienced in
contract supervision and project management.
5.4.2 Study/Review of Roads in Development Schemes
The Consultant shall provide the services of the following
professional staff based in Jakarta for 12 months to assist the PMU to carry
out the study of development scheme Roads:



ANNEX 7
Page 24 of 28
(a)  One expatriate Agricultural Development Advisor experienced in the
transport sector and responsible for carrying out the study of
development scheme Roads.
(b)  Short-term expatriate specialist services in the fields of
engineering, transport planning and management.
(c) One Indonesian Management Specialist to assist with procedural
aspects of the study.
(d) One Indonesian Transport Planner to assist with planning aspects of
the study.
VII. SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES
7.1 Staffing and Man-Months
7.1.1     Technical Assistance for Project Management Unit
TOR          Field        Expatriate       Advisors Indonesian Professionals
of                            Man-                              Man-
Ref.       Activity        Position         Months   Position           No.  Months
2.4.1.   Institutional  Team Leader           42   Proj. Coordinator   1       36
Improvement    Training & Mgt             Management
& Monitoring    Coordinator          36    Specialist          1      36
Monit. Syst. Adv    36   Data Proc. Mgr        1      36
Proj. Assessor        6   Comp. Program.       2      72
2.4.2.   Technical       Tezh. Coord.         36   H'way Engineer        2     72
Coordination   Maint. Advisor        24   H'way Engineer       3      72
Bridge Advisor       24   Bridge Engin.        2      48
Pavem. Des. Adv.    12   Pavement Eng.         1      48
Construct. Adv.      18   H'way Engineer       3      72
Mechanical. Adv      24   Mechanical Eng        1     36
2.4.3.   Transport       Tr. Plan. Coord.    24   Economist              3     72
Planning       Reg. T.P. Coord.    48   Field Plan. Adv        8    192
Transmig. Coord.    24   Trans. Plan. Adv    2        48
Plan. Engin. Adv    24   H'way Engineer        3      72
Total Man-Months                         378                              912



-95-                         ANNEX 7
Page 25 of 28
7.1.2.    Technical Assistance for DPUK's
(a) Western Region (refer to TOR para. 3.4.1)
Expatriate                      Indonesian
Region                No. of        Professional    Professional         Sub-Profess'l
Districts
Province                       Hwy.    Mech.   Field    Mech       Master    Tech-
Const   Maint   Eng.    Adv.    Eng.       Eng.  Mech&Oper  nician
1 Team                   1 Field Coordinator
Leader
1. Aceh               8       8      2         1        3      2         4          6
2. North Sumatra      5      11      2         1        2       2        4          6
3. West Sumatra       4       8      1         1        2       1        2          4
4. Bengkulu           -       3      1                  1       1        2          2
5. Jambi              -       5      1                  2       1        2          3
6. South Sumatra      4       4      2         1        2       2        4          5
7. Lampung            3       3      1         1        2       1        2          3
1 Training Officer
Sub-Total        24      42    11         5        16     10        20         29
Length of Service:                  36       24        36      30       24         24
Total Man-Months:                  396       120      576    300       480        696
1 Includes laboratory technicians and surveyors.



-96- 
-96-                 ~~~~~ANNEX 7 
Page 26 of 28
(b) Central Region (refer to TOR para. 3.4.2.)
Expatriate                     Indonesian
Region                No. of        Professional    Professional        Sub-Profess'l
Districts
Province                       Hwy.    Mech.  Field    Mech       Master    Tech-
Const   Maint   Eng.    Adv.    Eng.       Eng.  Mech&Oper  nician
1 Team                  1 Field Coordinator
Leader
1. West Java         13      20      2        2         7      3        16        13
Sub-Total        13      20      3        2         7      3        16        13
Length of Service:                  36       24        36     30        24        24
Total Man-Months:                  108       48       324     90       384        312
# Includes laboratory technicians and surveyors.
(c) Eastern Region (refer to TOR para. 3.4.3.)
Expatriate                     Indonesian
Region                No. of        Professional    Professional        Sub-Profess'l
Districts
Province                       Hwy.    Mech.   Field    Mecn      Master    Tech-
Const   Maint   Eng.    Adv.    Eng.       Eng.  Mech&Oper  nician
1 Team                  1 Field Coordinator
Leader
1. Cent Sulawesi     4        4     2         1         4      2         4         6
2. N.T.T.             6       6      2        1         4      2         4         6
3. West Kalimant.    6        6      2        1         3      2         6         6
. Training Officer
Sub-Total        16      16      7        3        13      6        14        18
Length of Service:                  36       24        36     30        24         24
Total Man-Months:                  252       72       468    180       336       432
# Includes 'aboratory technicians and surveyors.



-97-                         ANgNE  7
Page 27 of 28
(d) Summary of Staffing & Man-Months for Assistance to DPUK's
Expatriate.                    Indonesian
Region                 No. of      Professional    Professional         Sub-Profess'l
Districts
11 Provinces                     Hwy.    Mech.  Field    Mech       Master    Tech-
Const   Maint  Eng.    Adv.    Eng.       Eng.  Mech&Oper  nician
No. of Staff         53      78    21        10        38     19        S0        60
Length of Service:                  36       24        36     30       24         24
Total Man-Months:                  756      240    1,368    570    1,200       1,440
7.1,3     Technical Assistance for Traiing
TOR          Field        Expatriate       Advisors Indonesian Professionals
of                            Man-                              Man-
Ref.       Activity        Position         Months   Position           No.  Months
4.4      In-Country &   Training                   Training
Overseas       Advisors             24    Advisors            2     48
Training      Short-Term
Specialists         24   Instructors          5     73
Totals                               48                        7    121



-98-                          ANNEX I
Page 28 of 28
7.1.4     Technical Assistance for Studies
TOR          Field        Expatriate       Advisors Indonesian Professionals
of                             Man-                              Man-
Ref.       Activity        Position         Months   Position            No.  Months
5.4.1    Study of Local Construction                H'way Engineer       2      24
Contractors      Managemt Adv.       12
5.4.2    Study of        Agric. Devl. Adv    12   Management Adv.        1      12
Development    Short-Term
Scheme Roads    Specialists          12   Transport Plan.       1     12
Highway Eng.         1     12
Totals                                         36                        5      60
7.2 Cost of Services
Technical            Expatriate              Local                Total
Assistance        Man-M        Cost     Man-M      Cost            Cost
for                        US$ m.             US$ m.          US$ m
1. PMU                  378          4.7      912       3.7             8.4
2. DPUK's               996         12.5    4,578      10.7            23.2
3. Training              48          0.6       121      0.5             1.1
4. Studies               36          0.5        60      0.2             0.7
Total                 1,458         18.3    5,671      15.1            33.4



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Unit (PMU)
I.   Scope of Duties
The PMU's scope of duties are as follows:
1.   Coordination of Program Preparation
Assist in program preparation and annual budgetting for Inpres Jalan and
Inpres Kabupaten for kabupatens which obtain assistance from foreign aid
agencies, in cooperation with Dit. Jen Bina Marga (Dit. Bipran), BAPPENAS
(Transport and Communications Bureau), and the Directorate General of
Budgets in Finance Department.
Assist the kabupatens and provinces in preparation of budget
applications.
Work together with the Sub-Directorate of Local Roads in Bipran in
ensuring that planning makes best use of present road networks and
follows planning guidelines established by Bina Marga.
2.   Control of Program Implementation
Monitor and evaluate program implementation, including technical aspects
of implem2ntation, and ensure that technical guidance and support is
provided to the DPUKs for all aspects, from design to supervision of
works.
3.   Equipment and Materials
Assist in procurement of equipment and materials, from the planning,
purchase , distribution up to the installation and operation of equipment
(including workshop and laboratory equipment).
4.   Training and Institutional Improvement
Monitor the implementation of the Action Plan for institutional
improvement prepare manpower development plans, and manage and implement
recruitment and training carried out for the rural roads program, in
cooperation with the Bina Marga and Department of Home Affairs training
centers.
5.   Loan Administration
Manage the administration pf foreign aid.



ANNEX a
-100-                          Page 2 of 7
6.   Consultants
Act as counterparts for project consultants, and coordinator their work
in achieving overall project objectives.
7.   Policy
Carry out the policy of the Directorate General of Regional Development
(DGRD) and the Steering Committee for Rural Roads.
The PMU is responsible to the Director General of Regional Development.
II. Organization Structure for PMU
1.   The relationship of the PMU to the Government organization structure is
shown on page 6.
2.   The internal organization structure of the Project Management Unit is
shown on page 7.
III. Outline of Duties
1.   Steering Committee
The Steering Committee consists of:
-    Deputy Chairman of Bappenas and staff
-    Director General of Regional Development and staff
-    Director General of Bina Marga and staff
-    Representatives of the Ministry of Finance.
The Steering Committee's duties are to give direction and policy on the
implementation of the Rural Roads Project.
2.   Project Management Unit Team
(a)  The Head of the PMU is to:
Set in motion and provide overall coordination of all activities of
the PMU.
Carry out policy on implementation as outlined by DGRD and the
Steering Committee.
Be responsible to the Director General of Regional Development
(b)  Loan Project Coordinators have the duties of:
Coordinating all activities relating to the implementation of
foreign assistance for rural roads provided to IBRD, ADB, USAID and
OECF.



-101-                         ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
Providing administrative services for loan administration and
monitoring including provision of information to all key staff of
the PMU and to the projects in the field.
To carry out the above duties, the Loan Project Coordinators are to be
assisted by staff dealing with:
Providing information services (monitoring and evaluation) to
support the control of program execution.
Preparing reports on program execution for the Steering Committee
and for foreign aid agencies.
Preparation of disbursement applications, and monitoring of
disbursement progress.
Loan Project Coordinators will be responsible to the Head of the PMU.
(c) Assistant for Engineering
Providing technical services to the Project Management Unit in
relation to project implementation.
To carry out his duties, the Assistant for Engineering will be assisted
by staff dealing with:
Preparation of annual programs including provision of counterpart
funds.
Reviewing and publishing technical guidelines for all aspects of the
rural roads program.
The Assistant for Engineering will be responsible to the Head of the PMU
but should refer matters first to the Loan Project Coordinator for the
respective Project.
(d) Assistant for Equipment and Materials has the duties of:
Preparing programs and schedules for the procurement of equipment
and materials in relation to the foreign assisted rural roads
programs
Monitoring and controlling the procurement and distribution of
equipment and materials for the foreign assisted rural roads
programs.
Assisting in giving training and guidance so that all equipment
(including workshop and laboratory equipment) and materials both
from foreign aid and locaLly procured may operate efficiently to
support the rural roads program.



-102-                 ~~~~~ANNEX 8
-102-                          Page 4 of 7
Reviewing in giving training and guidance so that all equipment
(including workshop and laboratory equipment) and materials both
from foreign aid and locally procured may operate efficiently to
support the rural roads program.
Reviewing and publishing technical guidelines relating to the
management of workshops, equipment and materials.
Monitoring and evaluating the management of workshops and the use of
equipment and materials.
The Assistant for Equipment and Materials will be responsible to the Head
of PMU but should refer matters first to the Loan Project Coordinator for
the respective Project.
(e)  Assistant for Manpower Development and Trainin& has the duty of:
Monitoring the implementation of the Action Plan for institutional
improvement.
Preparing manpower development plans and related training systems
for district, provincial and central level staff in relation to
requirements of the rural roads program.
Managing and implementing the recruitment and training of project
staff at district, provincial and central level. In carrying out
this duty the Assistant for Training will cooperate with DGRD and
the Training Divisions of Bina Marga and Ministry of Home Affairs.
The Assistant for Manpower Development and Training will be responsible
to the Head of the PMU but should refer matters first to the Loan Project
Coordinator for the respective Project.
(f) Regional Coordinators have the duties of:
Coordinating and monitoring the activities of the Provincial
Coordinators.
Facilitating the relationships between the Provincial Coordinators
and DGRD, the provincial and district agencies.
Cooperating with the Assistant for Engineering in preparing
planning, programs and budgets.
Monitoring and evaluating work quality and district performance in
implementing the annual programs.
The Regional Coordinators will be responsible to the Head of the PMU but
should refer matters first to the Loan Project Coordinator for the
respective Project.
(g) Provincial Coordinators have the duties of:



-103-                          ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
.ssisting the DPUKs in planning and programming up to the
preparatIon of project budgets.
Collecting data for preparation of disbursement applications and
other data required for monitoring purposes.
Giving technical advice in the field, especially concerning work
quality, by communicating directly with Project Managers, Heads of
DPUKs and field consultants.
Monitoring and evaluating the implementation of work in the field.
Taking the initiative in holding coordinating meetings at provincial
level to soive problems that may arise in implementation of the
foreign-assisted rural z^r..s programs.
Provincial Coordinators will be responsible to their respective Regional
Coordinator.



-104-                                        ANNEX8
Page 6 of 7
INDOQNESIA - SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROQJEC
RELATIONSHIP OF PM IJO GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION STRUCTUBE
BAP_   I                         BAGD  I_
,...................,......... ......... ...............
. ~PROJIECT MANAGEMENT UNIT 
GOVERNOR            is
BUPATII
It            SAA  BIN
EAPPEDA 11           ~~BANGDA U 1DU
O8) * Technical Guidelines on Planning, Programming, Design, Tendering, Construction/Maintenance, Supervision
* Training and Technical Support
Oi) * Technical Support(AssistancelAdvisory Services on all Road Development aspects as required



ANNEX 8
-105-                                Page 7 of 7
INDONESIA - SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGaANIZATION SIRUCTURE QF PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
HEAD OF PMU
I 
PROJECT COORDINATION,
LOAN ADMINISTRATION, MONr. ORING
IBRD    ADB    USAID   OECF
PLANNING           EQUIPMENT                         MANPOWER
PROGRAMMING          SUPPLY &                         DEVELOPMENT
& DESIGN          OPERATIONS                         &TRAINING
WESTERN             CENTRAL            EASTERN
REGIONAL            REGIONAL           REGIONAL
COORDINATOR         COORDINATOR        COORDINATOR
PROVINCIAL          PROVINCIAL         PROVINCIAL
COORDINATORS        COORDINATORS       COORDINATORS



-106-                           ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Annual Works Program Formulation
1.        Experience with planning exercises carried out in the context of
programs supported by external funding sources has shown that programs are
best formulated on an annual basis given that road conditions and other
factors evolve over time, thereby altering relative priorities and rendering
out of date rigid multi-year programs. Moreover, it has also become clear
that for road planning at district level to become firmly established and
soundly based, the quality of planning data has to be much improved and that
such improvement will require a sustained and long term effort. Since the
economic rate of return (ERR) of the overall district roads program depends
critically on the composition of the annual programs in the individual
districts, the project gives great emphasis to systematic annual program
formulation.
2.        District roads in Indonesia carry significant traffic volumes--typi-
cally in the order of 50-200 vpd. Furthermore, because of the inter-relation-
ship between these roads and the national and provincial roads and the village
roads, the overall road network in the district constitutes a key planning
factor. The planning and programming approach being developed under the
project is, therefore, based on the following elements: (i) the introduction
of systematic methods of survey and analysis which will improve the quality
and consistency of the data base for district road planning and project
evaluation; (ii) the adoption of road network planning areas whereby surveying
is concentrated each year on geographically contiguous areas, which constitute
up to a quarter of the road network of a distr.ct so that over a period of
four to five years the whole district is covered; and (iii) the maximum use of
a traffic related evaluation method, i.e., for reliable roads and for roads
with low to moderate access constraint.
3.        Furthermore, the planning approach and its implementation arrange-
ments emphasize: (i) simplicity of the procedures to be followed at district
level and institution building to ensure that district staff in due course
will be able to survey and evaluate projects and formulate their annual works
program with only limited guidance and sample vetting at the higher level;
(ii) consistent planning procedures covering all parts of the district road
network as the basis of the district's entire annual works program.
4.        Annual works program formulation under the project essentially
comprises a survey phase and an evaluation phase. The survey phase is
designed to identify the initial list of candidate subprojects. Each year,
the main survey components in each district's road network planning area will
cover the following:



-107-                          ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
(a) road link and network identification and mapping using topographic
maps;
(b) road condition surveys sufficient to allow generalized costing of
improvements for screening purposes;
(c) two-day traffic counts on most links;
(d) location and distribution of population;
(e)  sample speed surveys;
(f) supporting surveys of unreliable roads with access constraints, and
of major bridge sites and key economic activities.
5.        The evaluation (screening) phase, designed to result in formulation
of the annual works program, is conducted in two stges: preliminary
screening of the candidate subprojects based on preliminary cost estimates
followed by final screening. Subproject evaluation for screening purposes is
based on traffic thus allowing rapid processing of a number of technical
options. Additional engineering will be carried out for the subprojects
screened in the first stage, followed by detailed costing and final evaluation
and formulation of the annual works program. Chart 1 shows in outline the
procedure to be adopted. The average planning lead time (from start of
planning till start of implementation) is about 18 months. The planning phase
for the 1988/89 project year is employed to test certain survey and analytical
procedures and to train local consultants and district staff in the traffic
survey procedures which have already been adequately tested in the past.
During the planning phase for the 1989/90 project year the district staff will
be trained to carry out most of the other types of planning surveys.
Thereafter, the emphasis will shift to the transfer of skills in analytical
and evaluation procedures. Every year, by December 31, together with
submission of the program of works for the following year, an action plan will
be submitted for training of district staff in planning procedures.
6.        For most of the first annual slice of the project, because of the
time constraint an ad hoc approach (as opposed to the network planning area
approach) was adopted for the initial identification of candidate
subprojects. It consisted of the selection of a long list of subprojects--
420 road links covering some 2,900 km--by the districts according to specified
criteria, the most important being that the roads should be motorable vir-
tually year-round and should already carry at least a moderate level of traf-
fic. Thus subprojects were limited to those most amenable to standard
evaluation based on brief traffic and engineering surveys to be carried out by
local consultants. For this long list of-candidate subprojects field work was
undertaken covering traffic counts and engineering surveys. A works program
by disirict was subsequently formulated by screening the subprojects.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Calculations
7.        For screening of the long list a standard economic evaluation was
followed based on investment costs and road user savings accruing to all



-108-                            ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
categories of road users.  The evaluation method used is serving as a model
for the formulation of subsequent annual programs.  The calculation procedures
were suitably streamlined to permit rapid processing of the large number of
subprojects. The results of these calculations provided the basis for a
ranking of subprojects by district, for formulation of a program of works and
an overall ERR calculation.
8.        The subprojects to be evaluated are typically 5-10 km road links.
Improvement works to be undertaken usually consist of reconstruction or major
rehabilitation with penetration macadam surfacing for sealed roads or crushed
gravel for unsealed roads. Two or more improvement options defined in terms
of pavement width and surface type were usually tested for each subproject.
Minor improvement works were not evaluated as an alternative option. Design
standards are related to projected vehicle traffic five years after road
improvement. Design life is ten years with appropriate provision for periodic
resealing or regravelling. The average improvement cost of all viable
subprojects was US$22,500 equivalent per km. Benefit calculations included
the following: savings in motorized and non-motorized vehicle operating costs
and in passenger time costs; benefits in respect of generated traffic; for
roads with low traffic levels, benefits on account of diversion from non-
motorized modes to motorized vehicles; and savings in maintenance costs "with"
and "without" the project.
9.        Traffic counts (6 and 12 hour counts) were conducted at a minimum of
one station on all project links. Wherever possible counts were carried out
at the same station on two separate days to cover both a market day and a non-
market day. Adjustments were made to estimate 24 hours traffic and allow for
daily and seasonal variations in traffic. Since these were the first systema-
tic counts in the project districts, there are no historical records of
traffic trends on which to base projections of future traffic. Using availa-
ble data on traffic growth on main roads in combination with income elasticity
of demand for transport, traffic growth was projected to be in the 3-6Z
range. Traffic generation was estimeted using an assumed price elasticity for
transport demand of approximately -1.0. On low-trafficked roads, where
traffic levels or vehicle types are constrained by road condition, a transfer
from pedestrian and non-motorized freight modes to motorized vehicles has been
estimated using assumptions of the divertable proportion of existing traffic.
10.       For motorized traffic, vehicle operating costs (voc) were derived by
adjusting the voc model developed by DGH for national and provincial roads as
the voc available directly from that model are not appropriate for district
roads owing to differences in traffic composition and in road condition.
Seven road categories were specified on the basis of level of roughness and
average travel speed (Table 1). Five vehicle categories were adopted: light
vehicle (pick-up and minibus), light truck, light bus, car and motorcycle.
For non-motorized traffic, seven relevant types were identified: passenger
bicycke, freight bicycle, tricycle, ox-cart, horse-cart, packhorse and
pikulan. For the evaluation of personal time savings a distinction is drawn
between productive time and private time. Productive time has been calculated
on the basis of an economic wage rate of Rp 290/hour (US$0.18) in Java and
Rp 460/hour (US$0.28) in the Outer Islands. The value of private time is
based on half the estimated opportunity cost of unskilled labor in rural areas



-109-                           ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
i.e. Rp 75/hour (US$0.05) in West Java and Rp 120/hour (US$0.07) in the Outer
Islands. Combined vehicle operating and passenger time costs are shown in
Tables 2-5.
11.       Of the total of 420 subprojects studied, 231 or 55% have an ERR of
10% or greater. The remaining projects were either found not viable, having
an ERR below 10% or had not been fully evaluated on the grounds that they were
found not to meet the initial selection criteria or because of inadequate
survey data.
12.       Sensitivity calculations were performed on a sampls of 50 subproj-
ects to test the sensitivity of the ERR to changes in the basic assumptions,
i.e., in respect of construction costs, base year traffic and traffic growth,
road condition assessment, generated traffic, non-motorized traffic and modal
diversion, times values, maintenance cost savings, project life or
implementation performance. The outcome of the ERR and sensitivity analyses
permitted the ranking of subprojects for each district and classifying them
according to degree of risk. The cut-off ERR was set at 10% and the overall
ERR of all subprojects with an ERR of 10% or greater is 29%.
Special Evaluation Procedures
13.       Some subprojects, such as those involving significant development
benefits, substantial traffic diversion or forming part of former transmigra-
tion schemes, may noc be suitable for the standard evaluation method outlined
above. These subprojects will normally be identified in the annual survey
phase given that once the network planning areas have been determined, all
road links are to be surveyed according to consistent and similar procedures.
14.       Subprojects which present traffic diversion issues will require a
special survey and evaluation approach focussing on network effects. Other
subprojects may fail to meet the staindard viability criteria based on traffic
and road user savings because population or economic activity in the area of
influence of the road (or in the transmigration scheme as the case may be) are
at too low a level. It will therefore be necessary to deLermine whether this
is the result of constraints to development, and if so, to what extent these
constraints are related to poor road access or to other problems. The road
links which present problems of viability based on standard criteria and for
which road access has been ideatified as the prime constraint to development
would be the subject of special studies by a centrally based team.
15.       Special studies, however, cannot be expected to address satisfac-
torily complex issues of transmigration (or other) scheme development other
than those related to road access. For situations where the district
authorities attach high priority to projects which fail to meet standard
criter'a and cannot be covered adequately by special studies (or fail to pass
the teJt of special studies), two options remain: (i) to treat the areas/
transmigration sites as special cases under which basic all-weather access is
provided to population centers of pre-determined minimum size based on least-
cost solutions for designs appropriate to the function of the road; and (ii)
treat the road in the context of wider integrated studies of all aspects of
development in the area/transmigration site in question, to be handled by



-110-                              ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
other agencies (Chart 2). Specific criteria to determine whether a subproject
qualifies for special studies, for least-cost treatment or for reference to
another agency still need to be developed. The methodologies to be employed
for the special studies and the parameters for the least cost approach, also
need to be elaborated. Government intends to work out these criteria and
methodologies for submission and approval by the Bank not later than
December 31, 1987. No subproject which fails to meet the standard criteria
will be financed under the project unless it has been evaluated and found
viable, based on the broad approach outlined above and the criteria and
methodologies still to be developed.



ANNEX 9
-11l-                               Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Costs - Motorized Vehicles, 1986
Light        Light      Light                   Motor-
Roughness      Speed        vehicle       truck        bus         Car        cycle
(mm/km)       (km/h)       --…--- (Rp/km) - ------------------…
15,000          7.5         266.8        409.2      484.5       257.6        39.6
13,000         15.0         206.3        317.9       365.1      229.2         33.7
11,000         20.0         176.0        266.8      300.0        192.3       28.4
9,000         30.0         125.7        194.5       220.2       142.2       21.0
7,000         40.0         104.7        156.6       176.7       114.6        17.3
5,000         50.0          89.7        127.5       143.4       94.0         14.3
3,000        60.0           77.0        101.1       114.2        76.1        12.3
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



ANNEX 9
-112-                             Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Combined Vehicle Operating and Passenger Time Costs by Road Condition
Motorized Movements - Java, 1986
(Rp/km)
Road condition:  GA      GG      FA     FG     PA      PG     BA   BG/PE    BE
Motorcycle         16.5   18.3   20.1   22.4   24.7   29.2   34.0   41.2   48.2
Pick-up (pass)   100.2  109.4  118.8  132.2  146.2  171.4  198.2  243.3  292.8
Pick-up (frt)      94.2  102.7  111.3  123.6  136.2  159.4  183.2  223.3  262.8
Bus               171.9  191.8  212.3  239.2  267.7  317.1  371.2  460.1  576.5
Truck             132.0  147.1  162.2  182.0  202.0  237.7  274.0  332.9  395.3
Car/Jeep           99.2  110.1  121.2  135.9  150.9  177.8  205.4  246.7  271.5
C = Good                A - Seal
1' - Fair               G - Gravel
P = Poor                E = Earth
B = Bad
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



ANNEX 9
-113-                              Tab le 3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Combined Vehicle OPerating and Passenger Time Costs by Road Condition
Motorized Movements - Outer Islands, 1986
(Rp/km)
Road condition:  GA      GG      FA      FG     PA      PG      BA   BG/PE    BE
Motorcycle         17.9   19.8   21.8   24.3   27.0   31.9   37.4   45.7   54.9
Pick-up (pass)   106.5  116.4  126.7  141.2  156.7  184.0  214.0  264.3  324.3
Pick-up (frt)      96.9  105.7  114.7  127.5  140.7  164.8  190.0  232.3  276.3
Bus               189.0  210.8  233*7  263.6  296.2  351.3  414.0  517.i  662.0
Truck             134.7  150.1  165*6  185.9  206.5  243.1  280*8  341.9  408.8
Car/Jeep          102.4  113.6  125.1  140.4  156.2  184.1  213.3  257.2  287.8
G = Good                 A - Seal
F = Fair                G = Gravel
P = Poor                E - Earth
B = Bad
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



ANNEX 9
-114-
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Combined Vehicle Operating and Passenger Time Costs by Road Condition
Non-motorized Movements - Java, 1986
(Rp/km)
Road condition:  GA       GG      FA     FG      PA      PG     BA   BG/PE    BE
Pedestrian         18.8   18e8   18.8   18.8   18*8   18.8   18*8   18.8   18.8
Pikulan            46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9
Bicycle
Passenger         9.9   11.3   12*2   13.2   15.9   20.4   24.1   26.8   29.6
Freight          12.4   14.1   15.3   16.5   20.2   26.0   30.8   34,2   38.1
Tricycle           35.7   41.2   44.9   48.7   59.7   78.1   92.6  103.1  115.1
Animal cart
Ox cart          87.2   87.4   87.5   87.6   87.8   88.1   91.8  104.9  116*6
Horse cart       27.9   32*2   35.1   38.0   46.6   60.9   72*3   81.3   89.7
Pack horse       47.4   47.4   47.4   47*4   47.4   47.4   47.4   54.1   63.2
G = Good                 A - Seal
F = Fair                 G = Gravel
P = Poor                 E = Earth
B = Bad
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



ANNEX 9
fTable 5
-115-
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Combined Vehicle Operating and Passenger Time Costs by Road Condition
Non-motorized Movements - Outer Islands, 1986
(Rp7km)
Road condition:  GA      GG     FA      FG     PA      PG     BA   BG/PE    BE
Pedestrian         30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
Pikulan            75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75,0
Bicycle
Passenger        13.4   15.4   16.8   18.2   22.1   28.7   34.0   37.8   42*0
Freight          17.7   20.3   22.1   24.0   29.5   38.4   45.7   50.7   56.6
Tricycle           52.6   60*9   66.6   72.4   89.4  106.7  140.0  155.8  174.3
Animal cart
Ox cart         105.7  105.9  106.0  106.1  106.3  106o6  110.3  126.1  141.4
Horse cart      36.5   42.2   46.9   49*9   61.5   80.8   96.2  107.8  119.6
Pack horse      65.9   65.9   65.9   65.9   65.9   65*9   65.9   75.3   87.9
G = Good                A= Seal
F = Fair                G = Gravel
P = Poor                E = Earth
B = Bad
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



ANNEX 9
-116-                         Chart 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline of Planning Approach for
Annual Proaram Formulation
OCSGN= A?CMPI-Z
Goew  C.20%
_
PLAWdtd .*VZy5 4 PAMft RAU"
~~S                      OUTLU ~fK
NgWNN=SAN              PO~~~SAPULI MASF
ANLYI   AN OSAX11110
W ~   *teA
vg&"   WCKwm    R    O



ANNEX 9
-117-                                              Chart 2
INQNSIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PRWO
O-utline of Planning Approach for
Evaluation of Transmi graMn Scheme RQad Prjects
Seledion of planning area focused on Identified priority
transmigration sites and adJacent district road network
Standard surveys and analysis (Reconnaissance, Mapping,
Traffic, Population, Road Condition Surveys and Photos)
-                  +~~~~~f
Supplementary Socieconomic Survey
Projects viabRe Projects not viabde
on standar  =rtd                                       on standard criteria
Site not yet                Prima fade evidence of                Rads adequate
fully developed            constraints on development               -require only
Primarliy      Road and          Primarily
road            other          constralnts
constraints     constraints    other than roads
s r   sb              A~~~~~~~~~~~Ree to
Follow-up                             s              Rothner
special~~ ~ ~ ~ suiscfea                     agencies
Wrs programme          vsueca tY sed
speciap studiesro|rpime
I                      I  i ~~~~~~~~rovide least-oost
l          l           g  ~~~~~~~~basic aii-wegdher |
mi        i           §      ~~~~~~~access to
- - | | ~~~~~~~~~~~population contres,   
|(Rehabilltationlmnprovement)           |         popuiatlon mnima                    progamr



-118-                         AMN    10
INDONESIA
SECOND RUIRAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
1. Land Transport Development Plan - Phase I
Halcrow Fox and Associates with Biel International, Inc.
April 1986
2. Indonesia Land Transport Subsector Review
D.M. Hawes, July 1987
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Rural Roads Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, IBRD, AEPTR,
December 10, 1982
2. Technical Reference Developed for Indonesian Staff Responsible for
Local Roads, P. J. Leersnyder and L. H. Rogers, Transportation
Research Record
3. Project Preparation Document for IBRD Rural Roads Development
Project, Phase II, September 1986, Amphico Consortium in association
with Hoff and Overgaard, September 1986
4.  Review of Experience in Kabupaten Road Construction and Maintenance
and Proposals for the Development of Improved Techniques, Colin Relf,
ILO Geneva, November 1986
5. Improving Efficiency of Local Resource Based Methods for Second Rural
Roads Development Project, Draft UNDP Project Document, ILO Bangkok,
April 1987
6.  IBRD Rural Roads II, Preparation of Programmes, Main Report, Amphico
Consortium in association with Hoff and Overgaard A/S, November 1986
7.  IBRD Rural Roads II, Simplified Engineering Design Guidelines,
Amphico Consoritum in association with Hoff and Overgaard A/S,
November 1986
8. IBRD Rural Roads II, Design Papers and Drawing for 1987/88
Rehabilitation/Improvement Program, 12 Volumes, Amphico Consortium in
association with Hoff and Overgaard, November 1986-February 1987
9. Working Paper on Kabupaten Road Maintenance; Amphico Consortium in
association with Hoff and Overgaard, January 1987
10. Working Paper on Aspects of Planning Methodology for Rural Roads in
Indonesia and Proposed Procedures for 1988/89; PMU, July, 1986
11. IBRD Rural Roads II: Planning and Programming Component Proposed
Arrangements 1987/88-1990/91; PMU, February, 1987



Table 1.1
-119-
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transport Sector Allocations Under National Development Plans
Repelita I Repelita II Repelita III Repelita IV
1969/70-    1974/75-       1979/80-       1984/85-
1973/74      1978/79       1983/84        1988/89
Roads                             75.0         77.7          66.5           46.3
Land transport (railways,
freight and passenger
road transport, ferries)         6.3          6.7           8.5           17.6
Sea transport (ports and
shipping)                        9.8         10.4          13.2           21.6
Civil aviation (airports
and aircraft)                    8.9          5.2          11.8           14.5
Total                       100.0        100.0         100.0          100.0
Transport as % of total plan
allocations                     17.0         16.0          14.0           11.6



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Network Length by Island Group and by Functional
and Administrative Class, 1979/80 AND 1984/85
Road network length (km)
By functional class                By administrative class
Arte-  Collec-                       Na-      Provin-             Muni-
Island group         Year      rial      tor    Local   U/C Ic    tional    cial    District  cipal   Total
Sumatra             1979/80   4,911    9,561   1,224   27,955    3,642   12,021    25,664   2,324   43,651
1984/85   5,859    9,635   3,224   45,212    3,692   14,926    41,217   4,095   63,930
Java /a             1979/80   2,124    5,263       924   30,631    1,576    6,694    26,459   4,213   38,942
1984/85   2,379    5,539       731   45,568    1,639    7,047    40,953   4,578   54,217
Bali                1979/80      222       500      25    2,407        418      325      2,411        -    3,154
1984/85     258       520        -    5,847       418       340     5,867        -    6,625
Nusatenggara /b    1979/80       521    2,998   1,601    9,251    2,249    2,861         9,261        -   14,371
1984/85   1,251    2,855   1,322   15,S04    2,265    3,235    15,732            -   21,232
Kalimantan          1979/80      910    2,596   1,145    5,518    1,219    3,449         5,078      423   10,169
1984/85   1,197    3,391   1,642   10,458    1,228    5,049         9,733      678   16,688
Sulawesi            1979/80   1,079    4,847   1,890   13,705    2,457    5,294    12,339   1,431   21,521
1984/85   2,060    4,749   2,389   23,734    2,467    6,165    22,869   1,431   32,932
Maluku/Irian        1979/80      131       909     756    2,860        128    1,668      2,827       33    4,656
1984/85     136       979   2,513    5,778        715    2,241      6,213      237    9,406
Indonesia           1979/80   9,898   26,674   7,565   92,327   11,689   32,312    84,039   8,424  136,464
1984/85  13,140   27,,i68  11,821  152,401   12,424   39,003   142,584  11,019  205,030
/a  Data on urban roads incomplete.
7F  Including East Timor.
77  Unclassified.                                                                                                        i
Source:  Derived from Statistik Jalan Raya Indonesia 1985, DGH.



Table 2.2
-121-
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of the Type and Condition of Pavements 1984/85
Pavement
type/condition                National      Proviucial      District      Overall
Te
Paved                             83            60            29           39
Gravel                            16            22            23           22
Earth                              1             18           48           39
Total                         100           100           100          100
Condition /a
Stable                            54            32            25           31
Unstable                          39             48           28           33
Critical                           7            20            47           36
Total                         100           100           100          100
/a  Stable indicates a roadway condition that by regular maintenance can be
kept adequate for the type and volume of traffic using the road while
unstable indicates a rough pavement condition with high vehicle operating
costs that requires frequent attention to prevent further deterioration.
Critical condition indicates badly deteriorated and often impassable
roads.
Source: National and Provincial Roads: Data Statistik Jalan, 1983. District
Roads: Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia, 1983.



-122-                             Table 2.3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of the Type and Condition of Bridges, 1984
On national   On provincial   On district
Bridge                         roads           roads           roads
type/condition                 --…(X) -----------------   Total
Steel truss                      19.60             10.15           5.63      12.36
Steel girder                     63.57            45.03           74.35     50.42
Concrete slab                     6.16              2.70           4.28       3.63
Arch concrete                     2.53              2.36           1.06       2.38
Steel truss suspension            0.74              0.67           0.00       0.67
Steel truss bailey               4.045              3.19           9.94       3.55
Temporary bridge                  2.51            35.12            2.86     26.03
Others                            1.36              0.79           1.88       0.96
Total                        100.00           100.00         100.00    100.00
Condition
Very good                        11.63              8.12          10.88       9.09
Good                             68.99            40.72           49.96     48.22
Fair                             11.75              9.22          15.08       9.99
Bad                               4.14              5.83          11.07       5.50
Very bad                          0.53              1.90           9.99       1.71
Extremely bad                     2.97             34.20           3.03      25.49
Total                        100.00           100.00         100.00    100.00
Source: DGH, December 1985.



-123-                              Table 2.4
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles, 1974-84 /a
Year/                                    Goods
period              Buses               vehicles            Cars            Total
Vehicle Numbers
1974               31.4                166.4             337.7            535.5
1975               35.9                189.5             378.0            603.4
1976               39.4               220.7              419.2            679.3
1977               46.6               268.1              471.1            785.8
1978               57.8               328.0              531.2            917.1
1979               69.5               383.6              581.5          1,034.7
1980               86.2               478.1              639.5          1,203.7
1981              112.1                590.5             722.4          1,425.1
1982              134.4               657.1              791.0          1,582.6
1983              160.3               717.9              869.9          1,748.1
1984/b            184.3               809.5              941.7          1,935.6
Annual Average Growth Rates (%)
1974-84            19.4                 17.1              10.8             13.7
1974-79            17.2                 18.1              11.5             14.1
1979-82            24.6                 19.6              10.8             15.2
1979-84            21.6                 16.1              10.1             13.3
1982-84            17.1                 11.0               9.1             10.6
/a  Based on new vehicle registrations (without adequate allowance for
scrapping).
/b Provisional figures.
Sources: Derived from Table VII.48, Nota Keuangan dan Rancangan Anggaran
Pendapstan dan Belanja Negara Tahun 1986/87, Republik Indonesia.



-124-                             Table 2.5
IND(?NESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Growth in AADT, 1972-84
No. of count-            Average annual growth (%)
Island group      '   ing stations      1972-84    1972-79    1979-82    1982-84
Sumatra                     214           15.1        19.0       11.8         6.7
Java                        347           12.6        16.5       10.8         2.4
Bali                         34           15.9        18.1       15.8         8.6
Nusatenggara.                38
Kalimantan                   35           19.6        25.3       21.0        -0.2
Sulawesi,                    68           12.9        17.4       12.0        -0.4
Other                        72           13.9        15.8       14.9         6.2
Indonesia              736           13.2       17.0        11.4         3.1
Sources:  Bank estimates derived from:
1.  Bina Marga Routine Traffic Statistics, 1972-84.
2.  Analysis of Traffic Growth and Traffic Forecasts for Screening
Road Betterment Projects, Highway Transport Planning Project,
April 1986.



-125-                             Table 2.6
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Traffic Count Results by
Range of Motor Vehicle Traffic in 40 Project Districts, 1986
(%)
Outer islands        West Java        Total
Number of couiAts in sample                 137                 79            216
AADT /a
0-   25                                32.1                5.1           22.2
26-   50                                14.6                3.8           10.6
51-  100                                27.0               16.5           23.1
101-  200                                15.3               30.4           20.8
201-  500                                 9.5               32.9           18.1
501-1,000                                 0.7                5.1            2.3
>1,000                                    0.7                6.3            2.8
Total                                100.0              100.0          100.0
(Average AADT /a)                           (86)              (278)          (156)
/a Average annual daily traffic of motor vehicles excluding motorcycles.
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 198//88
Program.



-126-                             Table 2.7
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Traffic Composition in 40 Project Districts, 1986
Outer islands          West Java            Total
Nonmotorized movements                 77.2                 64.2               69.4
(Pedestriaxs only)                 (45.7)                (37.6)            (40.9)
Notorcycles                            15.0                 21.6               19.6
Motor vehicles                          7.8                  14.3              11.1
Pickup                              64.0                  62.0              63.0
Bus                                  8.0                   4.0                7.0
Truck                                20.0                 26.0               22.0
(Heavy truck)                       (0.3)                 (0.5)             (0.4)
Car/jeep                             8.0                   8.0                8.0
Subtotal, motor vehicles        100.0                 100.0             100.0
Total                           100.0                 100.0             100.0
(Number, of movements)              (1,101)               (1,948)           (1,411)
Source: AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88
Program.



-127-                         Table 2.8
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Traffic Composition and Road Condition
on District Roads in Java, Bali and NTB, 1986
Four-wheel Motor- Bicycles/ Pedestrian/
vehicles    cycles    carts      Pikulan    Total
Fair seal:  High traffic /a             27         34       18           21       100
Fair seal:  Medium traffic /b           19        29        20           32       100
Fair seal:  Low traffic /c               7         22       27           44       100
Poor seal                               18         24       32           26       100
Unsealed (poor/bad)                      7         16       16           61        100
Avera&e                            16        26        23          37        100
/a >500 4-wheel ADT.
lb 200-500 4-wheel ADT.
/c <200 4-wheel ADT.
Source:  AMPHICO/Hoff & Overgaard A/S, Preparation Document of 1987/88 Program.



-128-
TABLE 2.9
INDONESlA                                            Page I
Second Rural Roads Development Project
Expenditures in Highway Sector
(in Rp millions)
Actual                          Budget
Road Class and Source of Funds                                  ------- -----------
82183     93/84      04/85      95/86      86/87     87/89
A. National & Provincial Roads
A.1 Central Govt. (Bina arga) Devt. Budget
1.  Rehab. & aint.:                Local                      3,966     6,566    22,429    22,681    19,860    33,185
Foreign                     -          -         -          -       12,877    77,431
Sub-total                 3,966     6,566    22,429    22,681    32,737   110,616
2.  Support Works:                  Local                    50,486    35,659    36,157    39,135    34,999        n.e.
Foreign                   1,273     5,254        962        923      7,867    69,510
Sub-total                51,759    40,913    37,119    39,058    42,866    69,510
3.  Bettereent:                     Local                   196,921   185,489   111,598   120,314    46,940    87,592
Foreign                  94,324    75,541   106,422    55,653    94,354   151,525
Sub-total               281,145   261,030   218,020   175,967   141,294   239,117
4.  New w'cstruction:               Local                    34,194-   51,972   101,012    46,139    25,294    17,277
Foreign                  16,360    26,162        -       39,402    74,641    30,950
Sub-total                50,554    79,034   101,012    85,541    99,935    48,227
5.  Bridge Replacement:            Local                     29,935    15,850    19,307    23,244        7,521    12,029
Foreign                     -          -       5,045      9,460    10,115    16,564
Sub-total                28,935    15,850    24,352    32,704    17,636    28,593
6.  Technical Assistance:          Local                      9,203     9,595      4,155      5,599      2,731    19,197
(Personnel                   Foreign                   8,972    19,474      2,609      5,631      6,781    27,481
Sub-total                18,175    29,069      6,764    11,230       9,512    46,678
7.  Other Assistance:              Local                        -          -      50,007    47,018    21,259       4,612
(Equipment, etc.)         Foreign                      ^         -        7,139    62,082    97,584    13,176
Sub-total                   -          -      57,146   109,100   118,843    17,788
Subtotal Devt. Budget:           Local                   323,605   305,031   34',665   303,130   158,604   173,892
Foreign                 110,929   126,431   122,177   173,151   304,219   386,637
Total                  434,534   431,462   466,842   476,291   462,823   560,529
A.2 Central Govt. (Bin Harga) Routine Budget
Subtotal Routine Budget          Local                             -             5,073      5,098     5,347      5,992
Total A                              Local                   323,605   305,031   349,738   308,228   163,951   179,784
Foreign                 110,929   126,431   122,177   173,151   304,219   386,637
Total                  434,534   431,462   471,915   481,379   468,170   566,421



-129-
TABLE 2.9
INIONESIA                                  .      Page 2
Expenditures in Highway Sector
(in Rp millions)
Actul                         ludget
Road Class and Souroe o  Funds 
82183    63184      84/85     95/86     68UN      871/8
3. Provincial Roads
1.1 Inpres DATI I - Ditetapkan
1. Rehab. & Naint.:              Local                      -         -         -         -         -          -
Foreign                   -         -         -          -
Sub-total                 -         -         -                    -
2. Support Vorks:                Local                   27,720    28,025    28,071    34,098    2B,798    29,790
Foreign                   -         -         -          -         -         -
Sub-total              27,720    28,025    28,(71    ;iv,A    28,79    29,790
S. Detteroent:                   Local                      -         -                   -       5,157    18,703
Foreign                                                            -         -
Sub-total                      -         -          -            5,587    18,703
4.  New Construction:            Local                                          -                              -
Foreign                   -         -         -          -
Sub-total                 -         -              -          -         -
5.  Bridge Replaceaent:          Local                    6,97      71,055    6,451     7,741     2,312    12,54
Foreign                   -                   -          -         a         -
Sub-total               6,978     7,055     6,451      7,741     2,312    12,56
Sub-total Ditetapkan:             Local                   34,698    35,080    34,522    41,839    36,697    61,059
Foreign                   -         -         '          '         -
Total                  34,6"    35,000    34,522    41,839    36,697    61,059
3.2 Inpres DATI I - Diarakhan
t.  Rehab. & Kaint,:                                                  a         -         -         a
2. Support lorks:                                        52,599    52,?44    53,516    0,347    60,291    60,291
3. Betterment:                                              -         -         .         _         a          _
4.  Now Construction:                   -                             a -                 -         a
5. Bridge Replatement:                                      -         -         -                   a          -
Sub-total Diarakhan:                                      52,5"    52,744    53,51      58,347    60,291    60,291



-130-
TABLE 2.9
INDONESIA                                            Page 3
Expenditures in Highway Sector
(in Rp aillions)
Actual                          ludget
Road Class and Source of Funds                                             --------------…
92183     83/84      84/05      B5186      86/97     87/98
8.3 Provincial Revenue - PAD I
1.  Rehab. & Naint.:                                                            -               -
2.  Support barks:
3.  Bettereent:                                          ---------------- --- negligeable aaount -----------------
4.  New Construction:
5.  Bridge Replacement:                                              -               -          -                     -
Sub-total PAD I
8.4 Provincial Routine Budget
Total B                             Local                    87,296    97,24    99,039   100,196    96,998   121,350
----- -                             Foreign                      -         -          -          -                     -
Total                   87,296    87,824    89,038   100,186    96,988   121,350
C. District Roads
C.l Inpres Jalan'                       Local                    80,100    80,100    80,100    87,469   130,000   133,526
Foreign                   3,478     4,318    16,435    19,265    25,333    94,737
Sub-total                83,578    84,418    96,335   106,734   155,333   219,263
C.2 Inpres Kabupaten (Inpres DATI 11)
I.  Haintenance:                   Local                    10,157    13,912    35,297    42,604    43,826    44,834
Foreign                     -         -          -          -          -
Sub-total                10,157    13,912    35,297    42,604    43,826    44,934
2.  New Construction:              Local                   139,181   134,738   119,784   131,507   151,036   155,303
Foreign                     -         -                     -
Sub-total               139,181   134,738   119,784   131,507   151,036   155,303
Sub-total Inpres DAT! II                                    149,33B   148,650   155,081   174,111   194,962   200,137
C.3  District Funds (PAD II)                                 -       …       ----- negligeable aonunt  ---------------
C.4  Other Funds                        Local                     9,124     8,437      9,459      7,759      2,024        704
(Equipment assistance, etc.)         Foreign                  27,525    11,039       5,711     3,054    23,634         -
Sub-total               37,249    19,476    15,169    10,812    25,658            704



-131-
TABLE 2.9
INDONESI}                              P~~~~~~~~age 4
Expenditures in Highway Sector
(in Rp millions)
Actual                         Budget
Road Class and Source of Funds                                -     …----- ---    - --------------- ---------   ----------
92183     83/84     84/85      95/86     86/87      87/88
Total C                            Local                   239,162   237,!87   244,639   269,338   326,986   334,367
Foreign                 31,003    15,357    22,146    22,319    48,967    84,737
Total                  270,165   252,544   266,785   791,657   375,853   419,104
D. Tall Roads
D.1  Central Govt. (Bina Narga/Oevt.BudgL)
1.  Land Acquisition             Lo;al                   27,597    26,344    39,745       7,544       211        400
Foreign                 10,518    22,495    36,074    28,218    46,038   114,463
Sub-total               38,115    48,839    74,819    35,762    46,249   114,963
2.  Other
D.2 Jasa farga Funds (Loans & Earnings)
1.  Routine Maintenance          Local                       150       160       164        163       291        349
2.  Periodic Maintenance         Local                       -         -         -          -       2,139        -
3.  New Construction             Local                     8,294    31,078    36,937    25,935    66,810    89,005
Foreign                 l0,518    22,495    36,074    28,218    46,038   102,061
Sub-total               18,812    53,573    73,011    54,153   112,848   191,066
D.3  Jasa Plarga Routine budget       Local                     3,184     5,321     8,032    13,862    19,188    23,025
Foreign                    -         -          -         -          -         -
Sub-total                3,194     5,321      8,032    13,962    19,188    23,025
Total D                            Local                    39,225    62,903    93,978    47,504    86,639   112,779
-----                              Foreign                  21,036    U,990    72,149    56,436    92,076   216,524
Total                   60,261   107,893   156,026   103,940   180,715   329,303
TOTAL   A + 8 + C + D              Local                  689,288   692,945   766,293   725,256   676,464   748,280
Foreign                162,968   186,778   216,471   251,906   445,262   687,898
Total                  852,256   879,723   982,764   977,162 1,121,726 1,436,178
Total National & Provincial Roads                               434,534   431,462   471,915   481,379   468,170   566,421
Total Provincial Roads                                           97,296    87,824   98,038   100,186    96,988   121,350
Total District Roads                                            270,165   252,544   266,785   291,657   375,853   419,914
Total Toll Roads                         8                       60,261   107,893   156,026   103,940   180,71S   329,303
National & Provincial Roads as X of Total                          51.01     49.0l      48.02     49.3?      41.71     39.4?
Provincial Roads as 2 of Total                                     10.22     10.0?       9.0?     10.3?       8.61      8.42
District Roads as Z of Total                                       31.7?     28.71      27.11     29.9?      33.5?     29.21
Toll Roads as Z of Total                                            7.1     12.3X      15.9?     10.62      16.12     22.9?



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards for Dtstrict Roads and Bridges
DIRECTORATE  GENERAL BINA MARGA                 DESIGN    CRITERIA                       PROCEDURES   OF  THE           PAGE
FOR                           PREPARATtON  OF RURAL          to.
FORCTOAT     OFROA    PANNNGROAD PROGRAMME PROPOSALS
D OIRECTORATE   OF  ROAD   LANNIG             KASUPATEN    ROADS                      BS  KAoUPATEUt  STAFF
ROAD CLASSIFICATION            CLASS U A                             CLASS 1 9                            CLASS M C
SURFACE  TYPE             ASPHALT SURFACE            ASPHALT SEAL                GRAVEL               GRAVEL AVAS
TRAFFIC VOLUME   OAT
L3000- Go50-B                   2 0oo                             300-50       1 so
t TRAFFIC CLASS t              I 4  651                   I3  It 8_aI                                      6 s a 11
.-                -. -.--                                                                 -
IE R It A I N        FLAT TO  HILLY   NOUNT- FLAT TO  "ILLY   MOUNT- FLAT TO  I.T   N4WT*  LAT TO  ll3LY   MOUN-
________________________   OLLUSB      AUINO    ROLLING        AlumN  MOLLEIS            ANIUS  ROLLMN            AINOU
TRAFFIC   LANES           a       I        a       I.      I+       64     le       go      IS       I        1       1
oesgn                          0 to   60       40      c        40      30      go       40      30      so       30      30
DPI!.            eminmum      so      40       so      40       as      Do      40       so      50      so       s0o     3
MGOASINT   I                           5       t0       0        S      to       _                                        le
tWtTt@   1t%   13ta                          -      ---_ __          -      --  _____                  -    -     -             I-
¢..o        6 " }  bf$"^XS  *-0  00  64  4-4  4-      4.3     4-8      4-3     4-S    5-5      3*-      S-5
WIDTH            U**Suuu      4 It    4-      +0        8.5    3-     35. 5-            3-5     3-0    $5-0      5O       3-0
Shbw0401.Ss's' 30    IS                        IS      1*5     I-S 1-0          I*S     I-S1-   1-0  9    .0t0   1-0     075
NIGTULD   I)    -"*^DIt a o1- -- n                                                       2 a  ta to
ROA  31    *    s.st      …………                                                                      --
WIOtann"                       G      I@      07   0T            O No-n………             -o                                 - o ol  t   1 O
RIG H         *S IA L              IC   N                                   .I        .i __             _  _ _ _  _ _  _
OF WAY                                                    ..mm..O n  ai                  to                       SN
ROASI            PAV weSa              a %                      a5%                       4 _ _ ____   _     _    __       _
CtAUemR         s60t"                  4 %-*%                    O %-l0                   6%-r%
LMS   utuaaz oau  *wu               ?-ONl                    7-0                      T-0 4N119 
3_ -                          __            ___ USIM    gauN 1  4-sN  4-UN            4.5W                     4 51f
SSUA011,1 OvOtiau we.        7-oNl                    7-ON                     4-SN                      .5
U tsQ oweU?I   tu t          46SN                     4-SN                     4-SN6
I aaLgOaa.L USIU          7-ON                     4-SN0                    4-S N          ___________ tl
UWNSU?USSWA&S6 b              -s         4-SNN                                 44M                      444-9
de              .                                                                                                             _b
3R06 DIESION LOADING               70%DN s1101 .%an .0% an
Source: DGHR, February 1987



-133-                            TABLE 3.2
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Scope of Rehabilitation/Improvement Works
(Nkm)
Number of    Works already   Extra works/a
districts    designed for       yet to be   Estimated scope of rehab/
for rehab/      1987/88 and      designed        impr. works in year
Region/province       improvement   not yet built   for 1988/89  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
Western Region
Aceh                       8             206               84         290       290      290
North Sumatra              5             142              108         250       250      250
West Sumatra               4              35              165         200       200      200
Bengkulu                           -               -                    -         -        -
Jambi                      -               -                -           -         -         -
South Sumatra             4                -               80          80       100      100
Lampung                      3               -               60          60        90        90
Subtotal              24             383               497        880       930       930
Central Region
West Java                 12             559              221         780       650      650
Eastern Region
West Kalimantan            6             '50               40          90       120       120
Central Sulawesi           4              88               12         100       120      120
NTT                        6               -              150         150       180      180
Subtotal              16            1138               202        340       420       420
Total                 53           1,080               920      2,000    2,000    2,000
/a May vary by * 20% after information on cotumitted 87/88 projects becomes available.



-134-               ... TABLE 3.3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured
Unit price  Quantity  Total cost
Item                                                            (Us$)                (US$'000)
For Construction and Maintenance
Bulldozer, 110 hp with ripper                                 82,500         71      5,858
Motor grader, 110 hp                                          70,000         46      3,220
Front-end wheel loader, 1.2 m3                                45,000         92      4,140
Self-propelled vibrating roller, 6 t, pad foot drum           45,000         78      3,510
Stone crusher, 30 t/hr                                       163,000         23      3,749
Maintenance unit
Flat-top truck, 4 t                                       }
Compressor, 100 cfm                                       }
Asphalt sprayer, 200 1                                    1
Trailer, 2 t                                                53,000        156      8,268
Safety signs                                                5             1
Air-driven jack hammer, etc. #
Kit hand tools                                            )
Pedestrian-controlled vibrating roller                    I
Service-equipped pickup, 1 t, 4wd                             17,500         71      1,243
Water tank truck, 4,000 1                                     25,000         71      1,775
Fuel truck, 4,000 1                                           25,000         71      1,775
Dump truck, 5 t                                               30,000        305      9,150
Pickup, I t, 2wd                                               8,000        142      1,136
Motorcycle, 125 cc                                             1,000        234        234
Spare parts, 20%                                                                     8,813
Total Equipment for Construction and Maintenance                                 52,870
For Workshops (including spares)                                25,000          6         150
For Laboratories (including spares)                             20,000          6         120
For Communications                                              12,500         53        660
For Labor-Intensive Pilot Schemes
63-70 hp agricultural tractor                                 11,000         12         132
50-55 hp 4x4 tractors                                         13,000          4         52
Trailers, 2.5 t                                                2,500         16         40
Sheepsfoot rollers (towed), 2-3 t                              5,000          4         20
Vibrating roller (towed), 2,5 t                               12,500          6          75
Vibrating roller (towed), 0.5 t                                2,000          4           8
Water bowser (towed), 3,000 1                                  5,000          4          20
Tractor attachments (scraper blade, etc.)                      2,000          4           8
Hand tillers, 10 hp                                            3,000          8          24
Light trailers, 0.4 t                                            500         12          6
4x4 vehicles                                                  10,000          2         20
Utility pickups                                                5,000          4         20
Motorcycle                                                       800         16          13
Hand tools (sets)                                                 20      1,100         22
Miscellaneous equipment and spares                                 -          -         100
Total Equipment for Labor-Intensive Pilot Schemes                                   560
GRAND TOTAL                                                                      54,360



-135-                                  Table 3.4
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DKVELOPWENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates /a
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Foreign as 2
Project component                     -    (Rp billion)  (-  -   USS mlllion)/b -         of total
Civil Works
Rehabilitation/improvement of
roads (6,000 km) 1                144.7    77.9   222.6   87.7    47.2   134.9           35
Periodic maintenance of roads        23.1    13.5    36.6   14.0        8.2    22.2        37
Routine maintenance of roads         35.0    15.0    50.0   21.2        9.1    30.3        30
Workshops                             0.5      0.2      0.7    0.3      0.1     0.4        25
Subtotal                         203.3   106.6   309.9  123.2    64.6   187.8           34
Equipmwet
For maintenance/construction,
workshops, laboratories and
commanications                     10.9    77.9    88.8    6.6    47.2    53.8           88
For labor-intensive pilot scheme    0.1        0.9      1.0    0.1      0.5     0.6        90
Subtotal                          11.0    78.8    89.8    6.7    47.7    54.4           88
Consultancy Services
For DPUKs                            20.0    18.3    38.3   12.1    11.1    23.2           48
for PMU                               6.9      7.0    13.9    4.2       4.2     8.4        50
For training                          0.9      0.9      1.8    0.5      0.6     1.1        SO
For labor-intensive pilot scheme    1.5        1.1      2.6    0.9      0.7     1.6        45
Studies of contractors and
eevelopment schemes roads           0.3      0.8      1.1    0.2     0.5      0.7        75
Subtotal                          29.6    28.1    57.7   17.9    17.1    35.0           49
Training
In-country                            2.1      1.7     3.8    1.3       1.0     2.3        45
Overseas                               -       2.0      2.0     -       1.2     1.2       100
Subtotal                           2.1      3.7     5.8    1.3      2.2      3.5        63
Total Base Cost                  246.0   217.2   463.2  149.1   131.6   280.7           47
Contingencies
Phvsical /c                          23.6    13.9    37.5   14.3        8.4    22.7        37
Price /d                             28.4    20.4    48.8   17.2    12.4    29.6           42
Subtotal                          52.0    34.3    86.3   31.5    20.8    52.3          40
Total Project Cost /e            298.0   251.5   549.5  180.6   152.4   333.0          46
/a Prices as of September 1987.
/b Fxchange rate: US$1.00 - Rp 1,650.
7C Ten percent on civil works and consultancy services, 1S on training.
7T On base costs and physical contingencies. Estimates of price increases carried out at
following rates:
1987      1988       1989       1990      1991
Foreign             3.02       1.02       1.09      1.02       3.52
Local              10.0:       5.02       3.52      3.S       3.52
/e  Includes US$11.4 million of identifiable taxes and duties on civil works, US$5.9 million
on procurement of equipment and US$145 million taxes on the services of consultants.
Source:  Mission estimates, September 1987*



Table 3.5
-136-
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule /a
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal year         Disbursements        Estimated cumulative disbursements
and semester           by Semester         US$ million                          X
1988
December 31, 1987           0.0                 0.0                              0
June 30, 1988               2.0                 2.0                              1
1989
December 31, 1988          33.0                35.0                             13
June 30, 1989              40.0                75.0                             39
1990
December 31, 1989          35.0               110.0                             58
June 30, 1990              20.0               130.0                             68
1991
December 31, 1990          20.0               150.0                             79
June 30, 1991              20.0               170.0                             89
1992
December 31, 1991          20.0               190.0                            100
/a Assumes loan effectiveness by January 31, 1988.
Source: Mission estimates, September 1987. .



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF          -
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF REGIONAL DEVELOIbMENT WDORD)
Cenura Government
Mnliter of
11ome Affairs
g [urotary   Tnspe1tt
General                              General
Director Ganera|    Dlrector General         Derector General    Director Genoral of    iretor Sonerd of  enoel Amin'stration
Politicd AffaiIr         of Lends           Viloage Dwelopment   Regiond Devlopment        end Reglond  Autawy IP U 0 Di
ftli"cal Affdre~~~PlnnngB                                     orig  A
Di,ectr ofDrecto oenord
District                                   ospmn
SocrDlretoe         Development            Secrcetriae          D nelo poent           Stio
____________nt____    Implementation        __l
i¢  Provincial    r Inter  I0ctor       r    Urban                 Critical Sh      Inter  SeCtorol           Regional
Development           Dovelopeont           Development          Backward Area         Development           Developmont
Implementation                                              I  I  DovelozEm__ _      I   Plonnin              nfl  Institutions
Regional            Environmontol          Residential            General             Devlopment             Evaluation B
Devebpment           'Development    |  Development               Development          Potential B            Development
SOURCE:01 EAfFAIRSSTRUCTION No. sResoures                            Implementation J
SOURCE : NITERF OF HOME AFFAIRS INSTRUCTION No. 72 of 1981



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUTURE ORGAMZArIDN OF
IRECTORATE GENERAL OF REGNAL DEVELOPMENT (DGRD)
entralt si
Homo Affairs
Hierv L I -- bscomaet, I
Dlroc1ar General      wIroeter General   | feeor oGenal          Oirectar Gema  of    Otretor GoRn    t oGomel Adelstetlao
Pof Scal afehe          of Lands           Villtge D.wloon eni   Regional O0ebm,nt     Ma  Reglonal Aneemy I P U O D) 
Polita                                                     t _htae                            m
|SPlbr|tarElato                      So toe   Al|rel |de
Directo                              Dlroelte  of                            Director of                           £=K         of
hneld   D _t                         olool      pme"                        Urbas        "Mt                                   Dx . km
Pbmlrbe a  Pr"                              At tain                                                                     DeAf *  dwnl  Me  Mad
s oerbtwt   | <    c rt  rl5t |              ratsohsto            |4car torlto |
Oow* moflt  r       LDOv t Plonnio   Corperatle         Critical Areas      Planning            Petatlel        i   llcatlos           Envltom n I
rt
L lntrattlrctur    Aailseb     pL Ramom a                  Urbona                Urban          "Ntoral              Dove"ont
IPlaning            Plannin     || Indentlflctb           oer Areas |       Envirnment |nfrostruor | Eawlron"mnt                       Admlnltration |
SOURCE: MSWTER OF HOME ASAInS OgECOE No. 22 o"eee



- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ORaNM  OF THE
B¢CTOTS LOEA OF H n"AY (DON)
~~sg: ~~~~~k. aFm.  7momoam
am" ~      ~        ~        " 
ammen : go", APOL Off~~~~~~~~~~~



IDONESIA
SECOND RLtAIA ROAD$ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
PROVINCIAL PUC WORKS AGENCY CD PUP)
36  ll, RSAU.AM,  NILU_, LAd&S WST NAMaNh,
ClETRAL KAIhIAt  a,OlrTH SULESI, CENTRAL SUAWS,
OUTEST OffSJLSNU    TOMRMA TM,AMM    OM JMA
I~~~~~~~~~
I AD OIF DPUP
PERSONNEL    f4NANCE         LIEAL Sfi      ENAL
AFFAIRS       A FFAIRS
.~~             ~        ~~~~~~~~                                                         ~~~ .  1 I  .   WPEUS
PLANNiNO             IRRIOATION             ROAD$S     JUILS I" s-  I                                       0
IRRIOATION   IROAD                                                                  mRRIGATION 
PROSRAAMMU           IRRIOATION   1CONSTRUCTION                 RIOIONAL    1        £ @WPMENT
____          ____- ____                                 ____J                   .SUPPLIES
ROAS 12              RIVERS                3980£             OSUILDINOU              ROAOS
_   P ROG RAN ^   U  _  tSWA MPS         CONSTRUCTION             HOUSING            S SUPPLIES
BUILDINGS           OPERATIONS               ROAD      1                    1
PRO*RAMMLj          MAINTENNCE            MAINTENANCt           SANITATION   j       WORKtSHPS  |
DESION                                                             '
DESIO                     *|1
ROAD INVENTORY                                                        rt
SNICe: NISR OF HomE AFFAIRS INSTRUCTION
OS. 14 Of 06 IrMD 20 OCTOBER 1956.
.101mb



9      A-141-                                  Chart 2.4
=NO RUAML ROM=  OCVELOPMENT PROCT
oAsANrA10N OF TlH
VOCIAL PULC WOS AMENCY (OPUP)
m4 san%ir 9SXMn10 *AgrWM  AM  WMSA.WrX
1i3 
PLAuiVN    Jj   RRIGATION    j[        ROADS .IC              ,, 
U1RISA1.bON                  ~~~~~ROAO        TOWN AND           OITO
PROORANNg                            COUSTW                                to.a SUPt.
ROADS             RIVERS           S                                      ROADS
PROSRAMAME         S S1P             COuNSW ION                             EO-  S *UPP. |
9KALOOMS     l         OPERATION        rOAO                                WORgSNQPS
AESI IS                     ASEISANT M
ROAD UWI¶OIWOIMPAT
SOC  MNSER Of MM AIFIAIRS I!STRUCTIOI
No. 14 ot 906. DAM 20 OnCR 196



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE
KABUPATEN PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY  DPUKX
HEAD OF DPUK   |
* !OADS        I      SUILOING    I Is  SANITATION                                             I
I   REGULATONS    J L L.PLANNANGAND SUPL
CONSTRUCTION   JSWNLOINGS    J            ATN R UPPL]        TOWN PLANNING   J   __________
________________                      I      RESIDENTIAL.                      1
MAINTENANCIE  IHOUSING                                     REGIONAL PLANINGIOKIO
DESIGN  AND                                                        A
1                                                               __                   _     1
INVENTORY                                                                          SUPPLES
SOURCE: lM TER Of HOME AFFAlS HSIRUCTION
Me. 14. oM. DATED 20 OCTORER 19-6 ..



R OTES
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~*
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01:



MAP SECTION



'10-ATHAILAND                 l06e                          $624                           $i1
84 Aa Ac                    SJ
k   S                                                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US
BRUNEI AI! 
w  |   t   MALAYSIA              \.>                             ALAiA)
X  ^  ^~~~~~       KUALAtLUMPUR       +/MALAYSIA)
10  AWA SN    A N
1$ JWA"^ TP4GAH
s IIENGWW            '' w w  m   &'ANGK
I2 at. YOYCA*T
2^   $ MATERA UUAtA            swW                ^
IS JAWA MIMUR
16 NUSA MPNOOAAA TJMUR
'MIiAKiV                                                                                                      2Ž?q
18 hwUtU;                                                            r_                            14, LOM8OK   ,1
19 SUlAWESIUTA ARA                                      "OA
21 SULAWESI TENCGAI 
25 KAUMANTAN TINARAT
24 KAUI*TN STA
15 SWANfi TENtAH         PV_       nh        _*       t
2  KAMWA TIMUR  U                   /              ,
SX0'                            106'                            It2W                           11T



IBRD 20238.
I26                              130m                            136
PHILIPPINES                                               I N  D O  N  E S I A
,-~ SECOND RURAL ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LM--  EXM  PROJECT DISTRICTS
DISTRICTS INCLUDED IN THE FIRST RUkL
,0 1                    5 Z ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2093 IND)
,0                     -     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/                        -'--  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
*                         ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
e   %19 >                  HALMAHERA
X Kf~~~P(JLUNAN                                                   (  
~SERA4M`1
SURU  o                           I                                JA
; ~ ~~~                                     A  i.                      -bo__n   
- -                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
( ~   F Ds" \ES        
}~ ~~~KPV                 TIrMOR                                            10 2            3040S
SUMBA                                                                                   KILOMETERS
120                               13                                1360
JUNE 1987



