Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2881 IND
             (Second Rural Roads Development Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 3, 1987
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  3,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
Page  2
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred ninety million dollars ($190,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services  required  for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  United  States  dollars a special account in
its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1991
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  3
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate high-
way engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall  carry  out the activities
referred to in Part A of  the Project in accordance with an action
plan and timetable satisfactory to  the Bank, and shall review and
update such timetable, in consultation  with the Bank, by March 31
of 1989, 1990 and 1991.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall  furnish to the Bank before
February 29, 1988, December 31, 1988 and December 31, 1989:
     (a)  proposed  programs  of  rehabilitation/improvement works
for Part B.1 of the  Project  for the following fiscal years, such
works to be selected in  accordance with procedures for subproject
identification and evaluation which  are satisfactory to the Bank,
provided that, subprojects shall be eligible for selection only if
located in a district  which  has implemented its road maintenance
and  rehabilitation  programs   for   the   preceding  year  in  a
satisfactory manner; and
     (b)  an action plan for  on-the-job training of district road
staff  in   planning   procedures  for  rehabilitation/improvement
programs.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall,  by  September 30, 1988,
furnish to the Bank  satisfactory  training programs for the staff
referred to in Part E.1 of the Project.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall  by February 29, 1988, issue
technical  guidelines,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  relating  to
planning, design, construction  and  supervision  of district road
works.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by February 29, 1988,  furnish  to the Bank for approval
the detailed countrywide maintenance  strategy for district roads,
which strategy should include technical and performance standards,
and funding formulas based on needs,  in the context of a balanced
highway sector expenditure plan; and
     (b)  by February 29, 1988, December 31, 1988 and December 31,
1989, for purposes  of  Part  B.2  of  the Project submit proposed
maintenance  programs,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for 1988/89,
1989/90 and 1990/91, respectively,  which programs (including both
physical and  budgetary  aspects)  shall  be  based  on the agreed
strategy.
     Section 3.08. The  Borrower  shall restructure and strengthen
the Project Management Unit for district roads within its Ministry
of Home  Affairs  by  appointing  a  full-time  Unit  Chief and by
employing additional  qualified  staff  in  sufficient  numbers to
carry  out  its  responsibilities  under  the  Project  and  other
externally-financed   projects.   Such   responsibilities  include
ensuring the effective implementation of  the Project on a day-to-
day basis, including overall Project coordination.
     Section 3.09. The  Borrower  shall  review existing problems,
in  planning,  constructing,  maintaining  and  administering road
Page  4
components in  development  schemes  in  accordance  with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and develop by March 31, 1989,
proposals for addressing,  or  avoiding,  such  problems, and more
efficiently maintaining such roads.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
               tains a separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, can be relied  upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that    the     Minister     of     Home    Affairs    Instruction
No.  056.2/923/Bangda,  dated   May   18,   1987,  the  associated
Page  5
Guidelines No. 620/958/Bangda, dated May 25, 1987, and the related
telex dated  July  27,  1987,  shall  have  been  further amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the  ability  of  the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          c/o Director General for
              International Monetary Affairs
          Jalan Lapangan Timur 2-4
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
               Jakarta                          DJMDN JKT 46415
                                                DEPKEU JKT 44319
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ Soesilo Soedarman
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  6
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  Rehabili-
          tation/
          improvement
        (i)  Phase I            19,000,000      40% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1988/89)                           April 1, 1989
       (ii)  Phase II           19,500,000      40% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1989/90)                           April 1, 1990
      (iii)  Phase III          20,200,000      40% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1990/91)                           April 1, 1991
     (b)  Periodic main-
          tenance
        (i)  Phase I             1,900,000      40% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1988/89)                           April 1, 1989
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
       (ii)  Phase II            3,900,000      40% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             1989/90)                           before
                                                April 1, 1990
      (iii)  Phase III           3,900,000      40% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1990/91)                           April 1, 1991
     (c)  Routine Maintenance
        (i)  Phase I             4,000,000      75% for expendi-
Page  7
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1988/89)                           April 1, 1989
       (ii)  Phase II            4,400,000      50% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1989/90)                           April 1, 1990
      (iii)  Phase III           5,000,000      25% for expendi-
             (fiscal                            tures incurred
             year                               before
             1990/91)                           April 1, 1991
     (d)  Workshops                200,000      40%
(2)  Equipment                  47,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures;
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory);
                                                65% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'               38,000,000      100%
     services
     (including
     related
     equipment)
(4)  Training                    4,000,000      100%
(5)  Unallocated                19,000,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                190,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to improve the management
of the Borrower's district  roads  program, including planning and
monitoring, design  and  construction  standards,  supervision and
maintenance and to  improve  existing labor-based construction and
maintenance techniques for district roads.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:   Improvement and clarification  of  the roles and respon-
          sibilities of the Borrower's  agencies at national, pro-
          vincial and  district  levels  concerned  with  the Bor-
          rower's district roads program.
Part B:  1.   Improving approximately 6,000  km  of district roads
              in  about   78   districts  through  rehabilitation/
              improvement  works  over  a  period  covering fiscal
              years 1988/89 through 1990/91.
         2.   Maintaining  approximately  19,000  km  of  district
              roads  in  about   78   districts  through  improved
              maintenance practices.
Part C:  1.   Improving capacities of  workshops  in about 78 dis-
              tricts, including provision  of fully-equipped work-
              shops and  basic  soils  and  materials laboratories
              where none exist,  and  additional facilities, tools
              and equipment  for  existing  district workshops and
              laboratories.
         2.   Improving capacities of about  78 districts to carry
              out efficiently  routine  works  and  maintenance by
              providing equipment and spare parts.
Part D:  Introducing improved techniques,  supervision and organi-
         zation for  labor-based  construction  and maintenance of
         district roads, by  carrying  out  pilot  schemes in four
         districts with the intention  of replicating such schemes
         throughout  Indonesia,  and  by  providing  equipment and
         tools for such pilot schemes.
Part E:  1.   Improving skills  in  planning,  monitoring, design,
              construction,   supervision   and   maintenance   of
              district roads  and  in  project management through:
              (a) in-country training  (formal  and on-the-job) of
              about 2,000 provincial  and district staff concerned
              with district roads;  and  (b)  advanced training of
              about 100  middle  and  higher  level provincial and
              district  officials  concerned  with  district roads
              through the provision of overseas training.
         2.   Strengthening the  Borrower's  capabilities to carry
              out   institutional   improvements   and  associated
              training programs,  in  preparation  of  annual work
              programs  and  project  implementation,  in training
              technical and administrative staff to carry out such
              functions  through   the   provision   of  technical
              assistance.
         3.   Carrying  out  a  study  to  recommend  measures  to
              address the problems  of  small contractors used for
              work on  district  roads,  and  a  study  to improve
              arrangements for handling  road  components that are
              part of development schemes through the provision of
              technical assistance.
Part F:   Strengthening   the    Borrower's   rehabilitation   and
          maintenance capabilities by  the  provision  in a timely
          fashion,  of  about  305  dump  trucks  (5  tons), about
          145  pickups  (1  ton,  2  wheel-drive),  and  about 235
          motorcycles (125 cc).
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
Page  9
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
     beginning July 1, 1993
     through   July 1, 2007                          6,335,000
On January 1, 2008                                   6,285,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
Page  10
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a)  Civil   works   for   road   rehabilitation/improvement,
periodic maintenance and workshops may be carried out by contracts
awarded  in  accordance  with  the  Borrower's  local  competitive
bidding procedures in effect at the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  Civil works  shall  be  tendered  using standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  Civil works tenders shall  specify that only contractors
registered as "class B1" or above are eligible to submit bids.
2.   Civil  works  for   road  rehabilitation/improvement  (up  to
an aggregate  amount  of  $17,000,000  equivalent),  periodic road
maintenance (up to an  aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent)
and routine road maintenance  may  be  carried out by the Borrower
through force account.
3.   Equipment for the  labor  intensive  pilot  scheme  (up to an
aggregate  amount  of  $300,000  equivalent)  may  be  procured in
accordance with the Borrower's  local  procedures in effect at the
date of this Agreement.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for goods, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and  conditions  of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  11
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the  respective  eligible  Category,  and  in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account  in  accordance with the pro-
               visions of Article V  of the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Category,  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
Page  12
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the  Special  Account  (i)  was made for any expen-
diture or in any amount  not  eligible  pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
