Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4257 MOZ
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Maputo Municipal Development Program/PROMAPUTO) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 9, 2007 
Page  2
-
2
-
CREDIT NUMBER 4257 MOZ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 9, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF 
MOZAMBIQUE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) in connection with the Project Agreement of same date 
between the City Council of Maputo (the Project Implementing Entity) and the 
Association (“Project Agreement”). 
WHEREAS, the Recipient has satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
WHEREAS, the Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,000,000) (
“Financing”) to assist 
in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”): 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
-
3
-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Financing shall be repaid in accordance with 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out 
through the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation or other relevant 
Recipient’s legislation have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 30
 
days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
Page  4
-
4
-
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has established a financial management 
system in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has adopted: (i) a financial 
management manual; (ii) a procurement manual; and (iii) a Project 
implementation manual, all in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(d) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s 2005 audited financial statements 
have been submitted in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
(e) 
The Project Implementing Entity has issued a request for proposals for 
selection of independent auditors for the audit of its 2006 financial 
statements, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(f) 
The Project Implementing Entity has established the office of strategic 
and institutional development referred to in Section IV.1(a) of Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
(g) 
The Project Implementing Entity has hired the institutional development 
advisor referred to in Section IV.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
(h) 
The Project Implementing Entity has established a procurement 
department duly staffed in accordance to paragraph Section IV.1(c) the  
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consist of the following: 
 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
5
-
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under Articles IV and V of the General Conditions 
and Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and Development. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Planning and Development 
Av. Ahmed S. Toure, 21, 4
th
 floor 
Maputo, Mozambique 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MOBANCO 
 
 
(258) 21 492-268 
(258) 21 492-625 
 Maputo 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
6
-
AGREED at Maputo, Republic of Mozambique, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By /s/ Aiuba Cuereneia 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Baxter 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient in the development  of the 
Municipality of Maputo through the strengthening of City Council of Maputo
’s 
institutional and financial capacity to achieve long term service delivery goals and to 
implement selected priority investments. 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
Part A: Institutional Development and Municipal Governance
1. 
 Institutional Reform and Strengthening.  
 
(a) Development and implementation of an institutional reform and capacity 
building program and of strategic planning processes. 
 
(b) Establishment of an integrated human resource management system and staffing 
structure.  
 
(c) Support for staff recruitment of a number no larger than 200 for a period of no 
longer than 24 months for each contract. 
 
(d) Support for retention of the staff mentioned under c) above following the period 
referred to therein. 
 
(e) Support for increased remuneration for Project Implementing Entity’s existing 
staff. 
 
(f)  Training of municipal staff on municipal norms and governance, cross-cutting 
municipal systems and procedures, and job-specific professional competencies. 
 
(g) Establishment and operation of municipal information systems for staff 
communication and for document management, including the creation of an 
internet page. 
 
(h) Carrying out of rehabilitation works for the Project Implementing Entity’s 
offices. 
 
(i)  Incremental Operating Costs for the Project.   
 
Page  8
-
8
-
2. 
 Improved Municipal Governance.  
 
(a) Development and implementation of a communication strategy including 
dissemination and information campaigns and civil society consultations. 
 
(b)  Carrying out of annual municipal report card surveys. 
 
(c)  Training to Project Implementing Entity staff and Municipal Assembly members 
on all aspects of municipal management and oversight. 
 
(d) Development of partnerships between the Project Implementing Entity and both 
key public sector actors and private sector firms to provide investment and 
management capacity for improved municipal services.  
 
Part B. Municipal Finance  
 
1. 
Improved Revenue Collection  
(a)  Design of systems for assessing properties and billing, distributing and collecting 
taxes and fees, including arrears and fines. 
 
(b) Design and implementation of a single consolidated database for local taxes and 
fees. 
 
(c) Carrying out of : 
(i)  a communications’ campaign to make tax legislation 
accessible to citizens; (ii) property tax bills distribution; (iii)  the reassessment of 
about 14,000 high value properties; and (iv) fundraising and management 
activities for grants and donations. 
 
(d)  Carrying out of training to municipal staff on tax and fees revenue collection.  
 
2. 
Improved Expenditure Management 
 
(a) Carrying out of an analysis to assess the current financial systems of the 
municipality. 
 
(b)  Design, implement and support an integrated financial management system. 
 
(c)  Design of mechanisms for the procurement and management of municipal assets. 
 
(d)  Establishment of a procurement department and training of its staff. 
 
(e)  Dissemination of the guidelines, procedures and norms of the integrated financial 
management system.  
Page  9
-
9
-
(f) Carrying out of training to the Project Implementing Entity staff to perform 
financial and performance audits, budget planning and execution, financial and 
asset management, and internal controls. 
 
(g) Support for international study trips for municipal staff to observe the operation 
of integrated financial management systems in a number of municipalities. 
 
(h)  Carrying out of audits for the Project.  
 
Part C: Planning, Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Service Delivery Improvements 
 
1. 
Planning and Management of Urban Space  
 
(a) Carrying out of a review of the Urban Development Plan for the metropolitan 
areas of Maputo and Matola. 
 
(b) Design of an urban plan for the area within the boundaries defined by the Port of 
Maputo, Avenue Josina Machel, Ponta Vermelha and Marginal Avenue. 
 
(c)  Design of a territorial urbanization plan for the neighborhood of Magoanine. 
 
(d)  Design of a territorial urban plan for the neighborhood of Zimpeto. 
 
(e) Design and implementation of an information management system for Maputo 
with spatial geo-referencing, for land use rights, ownership and infrastructure 
planning; including: (i) the carrying out of training of local technicians, and  
(ii) the development of an urban space planning and management strategy and 
relevant implementation plan. 
 
(f) Design of an ecological zoning plan and a plan for the protection of 
environmental reserves in Maputo. 
 
2. Infrastructure 
Rehabilitation 
 
(a) Implementation of a 5.6 km long urban transport corridor for connecting the 
neighborhoods of Magoanine, Albasine, and Guava to the existing road system. 
 
(b)  Design of a plan and specifications for access roads to outlying neighborhoods. 
 
(c)  Carrying out of independent supervision of highways. 
 
(d) Development of project des
ign and inspection procedures for Maputo’s traffic 
light system.  
 
(e)  Carrying out of works to complete Maputo’s traffic lights system. 
 
Page  10
-
10
-
(f)  Design of an implementation strategy for a maintenance program for the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
 
(g)  Installation and/or connection of public lights on about 30 kilometers of streets in 
suburban areas. 
 
(h) Carrying out of works for the construction and rehabilitation of market premises 
and structures. 
 
(i)  Carrying out of works for the construction of an additional cemetery for Maputo 
and support for any resulting displacement of persons as per the RPF. 
 
(j)  Carrying out of rehabilitation works
 for Maputo’s sewage systems, roads and 
overhead crossings. 
 
3. 
 Improvements in Solid Waste Management Services  
 
(a) Collection of solid waste in Maputo’s urban, suburban and marginal zones 
including those from markets. 
 
(b)  Transportation and disposal of solid waste collected in Maputo. 
 
(c)  Elimination of informal dumps. 
 
(d)  Establishment of an upgraded refuse dump. 
 
(e) Carrying out of works to rehabilitate workshops and offices for the solid waste 
management department. 
Page  11
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, surrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
B. Institutional 
Arrangements 
The Recipient shall maintain City Council of Maputo as the Project 
Implementing Entity, with the overall responsibility for the implementation, 
coordination and oversight of the Project. 
C. ESMF 
and 
RPF
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (i) cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the 
ESMF and the RPF and in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) 
maintain an environmental management officer with responsibility for 
implementing the ESMF and RPF for all applicable activities undertaken 
throughout the Project. 
2. 
Except as the Recipient and the Association may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Recipient shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to 
enforce the ESMF and the RPF referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph 
or any provision thereof. 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the ESMF and the RPF referred to in 
sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
Page  12
-
12
-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
inter alia
 with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions; and for 
purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, to furnish the report and 
related plan to the Association not later than six months before the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (i) maintain a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 
of the General Conditions; (ii) prepare interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project; and (iii) have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions as per Section II.B(1) of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1.
 
Goods, Works and Services
 (other than Consultants’ Services).
 
All goods, 
works and Serv
ices (other than Consultants’ Services) required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. Domestic preference for locally 
manufactured goods shall be applied without limitation to the nationality of the 
good’s manufacturer. 
Page  13
-
13
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services).  
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services
 (other than consultants’ services).  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding. Foreign bidders shall 
not be excluded from participating in NCB, 
regardless of estimated contract amount 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) 
Procurement from United Nations 
Agencies 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below
,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  Least Cost Selection (LCS) 
(c)  Single-source Selection  
(d)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for goods or services (other than consultants’ services) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and the first two contracts 
estimated to cost less than $200,000; (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and the 
first two contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000; (d) each contract for 
Page  14
-
14
-
consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultant services procured on the 
basis of Single-Source Selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to: (a) repay the Project 
Preparation Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 of the General Conditions; 
and (b) finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  15
-
15
-
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to Be 
Financed 
(1) Works under Parts A1 (h); 
C2; and C3 (e) of the Project 
 
5,500,000 100% 
(2) Goods  
 
1,500,000 100% 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
(including audits) except for 
Parts C1 (d) and (f) of the Project 
 
4,300,000 100% 
(4) Training 
 
800,000 100% 
(5) Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services) for  
 
(a) Part C3 of the Project 
 
(b) all other Parts of the 
Project 
 
2,100,000 
 
800,000 
 
80% in 2007; 
65% in 2008; and 
50% thereafter 
 
100% 
(6) Incremental Operating Costs 
except for Parts A1 (d) and (e) of 
the Project 
 
1,500,000 100% 
(7) Refund of Project Preparation 
Advance 
 
800,000  
 
(8) Unallocated 
 
2,700,000  
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,400,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 
2006, for Eligible Expenditures.  
2.
 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2010. 
Page  16
-
16
-
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The 
Recipient’s contribution to the Project shall be no less than the total amount 
of $13,000,000 (thirteen million Dollars).  
 
Page  17
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15and October 15: 
 
commencing April 15, 2017 to and including 
October 15, 2026 
1% 
commencing April 15, 2027 to and including 
October 15, 2046 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  18
-
18
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1.  
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“ESMF” means Environmental and Social Management Framework referred to 
in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4. “
Electricidade de Moçambique
”
means the entity established further to 
Recipient’s Decree 28/95 published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette on July 
17, 1995. 
5. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
6. “
Assembleia Municipal
”
means the Project Implementation Entity’s municipal 
assembly, the deliberative body of the municipality established further to 
Recipient’s Law 2/97 published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette on February 
18, 1997 and Recipient’s Law 8/97 published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette 
on May 31, 1997. 
7. 
 “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred under the Project, 
including office supplies, operation and maintenance costs for vehicles and 
equipment; salaries referred to in Part A.1 (c) of the Project excluding salaries for 
civil servants, travel and subsistence, for Project implementation.    
8. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 8, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
10. 
 “Program” means the two phase program set forth or referred to in the letter 
dated November 24, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association. 
11. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the City Council of Maputo;  
 
Page  19
-
19
-
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Recipient’s Law 8/97, 
Law 9/97 and Law 11/97, all published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette on 31 
May 1997 and the Recipient’s Law 2/97 published in the Recipient’s Official 
Gazette on 18 February 1997, all of which govern the Project Implementation 
Entity. 
 
13. 
 “Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on February 6, 2006, and 
on behalf of the Recipient on February 28, 2006. 
14. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework referred to in Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. 
 “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity.
 
