Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4257 MOZ 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Maputo Municipal Development Program/PROMAPUTO) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
CITY COUNCIL OF MAPUTO 
 
Dated February 9, 2007
Page  2
-2- 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 9, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and CITY COUNCIL  OF MAPUTO 
(“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Financing 
Agreement of same date between the Republic of Mozambique (“Recipient) and the Association 
(the “Financing Agreement”).  
 
WHEREAS, the Association and the Project Implementing Agreement hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II—PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and the Program.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-3- 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Mayor of the City of Maputo. 
 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Association for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
City Council of Maputo 
 
Paços do Municipio-Praca da Independencia  
P.O. Box 251 
Maputo 
Mozambique 
 
Facsimile: 
 
258-21321501 
 
Page  4
-4- 
AGREED at Maputo, Republic of Mozambique,  as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Baxter 
Authorized Representative 
 
CITY COUNCIL OF MAPUTO 
 
By /s/ Eneas Comiche 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-5- 
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project  
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, at all times during Project implementation, 
maintain its departments in charge of the implementation, coordination and oversight of the 
Project, with competent staff in adequate numbers, qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association (including monitoring and evaluation, procurement, accounting and 
environmental specialists), with responsibility for implementing the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, in accordance with paragraph C of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement, ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance 
with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and in a manner and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall:  
 
(a) 
adopt a Program Implementation Manual (PIM) in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, containing detailed arrangements and procedures for: 
 
(i) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project; (ii) disbursement and 
financial management; (iii) procurement; (iv) environmental and social impact screening 
guidelines; (v) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; and (vi) such other 
administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be 
required for the Project; and 
 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements and procedures set out 
in the PIM (provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and 
procedures set out in the PIM and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision of the PIM, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver shall, in 
the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall:  
(a) 
no later than 1 March, 2009 carry out jointly with the Association and the 
Recipient (if the latter may deem necessary), a Mid-Term Review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project; and  
(b) 
no later than thirty days after the completion of the Mid-Term Review, start to 
implement the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review as agreed with the Association.  
Page  6
-6- 
The Mid-Term Review shall assess
,
inter alia
:
(i) the overall progress made during the 
implementation of the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports of the Project in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 4.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Recipient not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the 
Association of the overall Project Report.  
 
(b) 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Association, the performance indicators 
referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the following: 
 
(i) 
There is a nominal increase of 120% in own source revenues over the 
baseline of $3.5 million. 
 
(ii)  
The amount of solid waste collected and deposited in the waste dump 
reaches 600 ton per day. 
 
(iii)  
An integrated financial management system has been implemented and is 
in use and fully functional as designed. 
 
(iv) 
All organizational units have the new staffing table defined and existing 
personnel redeployed. 
 
(v) 
At least 3 municipal report card surveys (one per annum) have been 
conducted and disseminated. 
 
(vi) 
At least 80% of the City Council of Maputo
’s year 3 annual investment 
budget has been spent. 
 
(vii)  
At least 50 kilometers of the unpaved roads, which rehabilitation is been 
financed under Part C.2 of the Project defined in Schedule 1 to the Financing 
Agreement, are in good condition. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than six months 
before the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 4.08 (c) of the 
General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably 
request for the purposes of such Section.  
 
Page  7
-7- 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these financial statements 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial 
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the 
end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project Implementing Entity and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2
to the Financing Agreement. 
 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
establish an office of strategic and institutional development for the purposes of 
coordinating its institutional reform process and the implementation of municipal strategic 
planning and monitoring systems;  
(b) 
hire an institutional development advisor for the purpose of providing technical 
support to the Project Implementing Entity’s Program of institutional reform and capacity 
building, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;  
(c) 
establish a procurement department for the purpose of carrying out the 
procurement under the Project duly staffed by a qualified department head supported by a senior 
procurement specialist and a procurement officer, with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(d) 
by no later than 1 September, 2007, prepare and submit to the Association, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, a strategy (including relevant hiring criteria 
and modalities) to retain the qualified and trained staff, mentioned under Part A.1 of the Project 
described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement, to enhance its in-house capabilities to 
manage the City Council of Maputo and other aspects of its activities;  
 
Page  8
-8- 
(e) 
upon approval by the Association of the strategy  mentioned under (d) above; the 
Project Implementing Entity shall absorb within its work force the qualified and experienced 
staff,  financed under Part A.1.(c) of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Financing 
Agreement, at the end of the initial two years of each staff contract;   
 
(f) 
by 1 September, 2007, enter into an agreement with the 
Electricidades de 
Mocambique
 (EDM) for the purposes of collecting the solid waste fee under Part C.3 of the 
Project described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement; and 
 
(g) 
no later than 1 September, 2009, prepare and agree with the Association, suitable 
bidding documents (including qualification criteria) for the competitive selection and 
employment of contractors to carry out Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project described in Schedule 1 
to the Financing Agreement, and thereafter apply the agreed selection procedures. 
 
