                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2273



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-42570 TF-92459)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.00 MILLION
                         (US$30.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                   FOR THE

         PROMAPUTO: THE MAPUTO MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



                                February 28, 2012




Urban and Water Unit
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2012)

                  Currency Unit = New Mozambique Metical (MZN)
                               US$1.00 = MZN 27.55
                                US$1.00 = SDR1.553


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL             Adaptable Program Loan
CCM             City Council of Maputo
ESMF            Environmental and social management framework
GIZ             German Society for International Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft für
                Internationale Zusammenarbeit)
IDA             International Development Association
IFMIS           Integrated financial management information system
IO              Intermediate outcome
M&E             Monitoring and evaluation
MMDP I and II   Maputo Municipal Development Program, phases 1 and 2
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PDO             Project Development Objective
PPIAF           Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPP             Public Private Partnerships
RPF             Resettlement policy framework




                          Vice President:       Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                        Country Director:       Laurence Clarke
                  Acting Sector Manager:        Alexander E. Bakalian
                    Project Team Leader:        Uri Raich
                       ICR Team Leader:         Uri Raich
                                            REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

       PROMAPUTO: THE MAPUTO MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


                                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................................... 2 
2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................................... 6 
3.        Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................................... 11 
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................................. 19 
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................................... 20 
6.        Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application) .................................... 24 
7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............................... 26 

Annexes

Annex 1:        Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................................... 27
Annex 2:        Outputs by Component ............................................................................................................ 28
Annex 3:        Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................................... 33
Annex 4:        Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................................... 36
Annex 5:        Citizens Report Cards .............................................................................................................. 38
Annex 6:        Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR............................................... 41
Annex 7:        List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................................ 49 

Map of Mozambique ................................................................................................................................. 50 
Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                             ProMaputo, Maputo
Country:                Mozambique                Project Name:              Municipal Development
                                                                             Program
Project ID:             P096332                   L/C/TF Number(s):             IDA-42570,TF-92459
ICR Date:               02/28/2012                ICR Type:                     Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                       Borrower:
                                                                             MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                        USD 30.00M                Disbursed Amount:          USD 29.42 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 30.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Maputo City Council (CCM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised / Actual
      Process                Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/17/2006     Effectiveness:              04/25/2007               04/25/2007
Appraisal:              11/13/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:               01/25/2007     Mid-term Review:            03/01/2009               04/20/2009
                                       Closing:                    08/31/2010               08/31/2011


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings              Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory           Government:                  Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Highly Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
                                Indicators                                                Rating
      Performance                                        any)
 Potential Problem Project at
                              Yes                       Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                             No                                                  None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                          4                      4
Other social services                                                      4                      4
Roads and highways                                                        20                  20
Solid waste management                                                    12                  12
Sub-national government administration                                    60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal finance                                                           22                        22
Municipal governance and institution building                               23                        23
Other urban development                                                     22                        22
Participation and civic engagement                                          11                        11
Urban services and housing for the poor                                     22                        22


E. Bank Staff
          Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili               Hartwig Schafer
Country Director:            Laurence C. Clarke                       Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:              Alexander E. Bakalian                    Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:         Uri Raich                                Kate Kuper
ICR Team Leader:             Uri Raich
ICR Primary Author:          Wendy Schreiber Ayres




                                                       ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
APL Phase 1: Strengthen the Maputo City Council's institutional and financial capacity to support
achievement of long term service delivery goals, and to implement selected priority investments.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective for Adaptable Program Loan Phase 1 was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target
                                                                      Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                                 Values (from
    Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised Target      at Completion or
                                                   approval
                                                                       Values            Target Years
                                                  documents)
Indicator 1 :     Nominal increase in Maputo City Council's own revenue over baseline.
Value
                                                US$7.7 million                          US$9.8 million (180%
quantitative or   US$3.5 million
                                                (120% over baseline)                    over baseline)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                    12/31/2009                              12/31/2010
Comments
                  The actual value exceeded the original target value due to increases in solid waste fees and
(incl. %
                  improved collection of property and vehicle taxes.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Urban solid waste collected and deposited in the dump (tons per day)
Value
quantitative or   253 tons per day              600 tons per day                        650 tons per day
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/31/2006                     12/31/2009                              12/31/2010
Comments          The actual value exceeded the target value because the solid waste services provided in the
(incl. %          suburban areas of the city has increased services above those originally planned (from 110 to
achievement)      more than 120 lifts per day) to collect increased waste quantities of primary waste.
Indicator 3 :     Integrated financial management system in use and fully functional as designed.
                                                 Integrated financial
                                                                                         Complete databases of
Value                                            management system
                                                                                         employees, providers,
quantitative or   None                           in use and fully
                                                                                         and assets and payroll
Qualitative)                                     functional as
                                                                                         functionality in place.
                                                 designed.
Date achieved     10/31/2006                     08/31/2010                              08/31/2011
Comments
                  Activity was not completed during phase 1 of the program, implementation will continue
(incl. %
                  during the phase 2.
achievement)




                                                      iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target
                                                                          Formally       Actual Value Achieved
                                                    Values (from
    Indicator            Baseline Value                                Revised Target       at Completion or
                                                      approval
                                                                           Values             Target Years
                                                    documents)
                  Organizational units with the new staffing table defined and existing personnel deployed
Indicator 1 :
                  (percent)
                                                                                        The phase I
                                                                                        reorganization has been
Value
                                                100% of                                 completed. All 29
(quantitative     None
                                                organizational units                    organizational units have
or Qualitative)
                                                                                        been covered by the
                                                                                        exercise (100%)
Date achieved     10/31/2006                    08/31/2010                              08/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Report card conducted and resulted disseminated annually.
                                                                                        Three completed, with
Value
                                                                                        2009/10 report card
(quantitative     Not done                      Done annually
                                                                                        completed and
or Qualitative)
                                                                                        disseminated.
Date achieved     10/31/2006                    10/31/2010                              12/31/2010
Comments          Except for 2009, an election year, the report card has been administered and its results
(incl. %          disseminated every year since 2007. In 2010, the report card survey covered two years 2009
achievement)      and 2010. Its results have been disseminated.
Indicator 3 :     Investment budget spent (percent).
Value
(quantitative     60%                            80%                                       90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                     12/31/2009                                12/31/2010
Comments
                  Excluding funding under ProMaputo, 95% of the investment budget was spent. When the
(incl. %
                  program was designed and the target identified, investments were off budget.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Roads rehabilitated under the project, non-rural (kilometers).
Value
(quantitative     0 kilometers                   20 kilometers                             85 kilometers
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/31/2006                     08/31/2010                                12/31/2009
Comments
                  This indicator substitutes for the original indicator to report on the core indicator for the
(incl. %
                  World Bank. The target was surpassed due to communities' preferences.
achievement)




                                                       iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                                Actual Disbursements
 No.                            DO                              IP
         Archived                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     07/17/2007         Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     3.21
  2     10/17/2007         Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     3.42
  3     01/14/2008     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory              3.79
  4     04/08/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               6.48
  5     07/10/2008     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     6.96
  6     12/12/2008     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    13.96
  7     05/28/2009     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    17.32
  8     11/24/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              19.83
  9     02/11/2010     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              20.76
 10     07/29/2010         Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    23.53
 11     03/13/2011         Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    27.12
 12     08/29/2011     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    28.53


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 v
                         Highlights of Implementation Experience

Taking innovative approaches to address challenges. The project included a number of
innovative approaches that contributed to its success. These included:

    Introduction of annual citizen report cards to solicit feedback from the public on the quality
     of services.
    Recruiting recent university graduates under Bank-finance to work at the City Council of
     Maputo for a trial period, with successful candidates made permanent staff of the council.
    Offering bonuses to high-performing council staff.
    Fostering creation of microenterprises to collect solid waste in poor neighborhoods.
    Implementing a communications program to engage citizens in service delivery through a
     variety of approaches, including organizing public forums at the neighborhood and district
     levels.

Creating a strong partnership with government counterparts. The Bank team worked in close
collaboration with the mayor and his team at the city council to design, prepare, and implement
the project. The design of the ProMaputo Program became the manifesto of the mayor.

Mainstreaming project implementation within the structures of the city council. The project was
one of only two in the Bank’s portfolio in Mozambique in 2006 that was drawing on government
structures, rather than on a professional project implementation unit, to implement a project.
While this created challenges for implementation, particularly in the early years, it has also
helped to ensure that staff of the city council obtain the skills they need to in the future
effectively fulfill their service delivery mandates.

Promoting inclusiveness by delivering services outside the city core, where about 90 percent of
the population live, most of whom are poor. Prior to the project, only the city core enjoyed
regular solid waste services. The project put into place services in the suburban areas of the city,
which had never before benefited from solid waste collection. Recipients of services are
gradually paying increasing tariffs to cover the costs of the services.

Working in close collaboration with other development partners to ensure maximum
development impact. The Bank team worked closely with the German Society for International
Cooperation (GIZ) in designing and implementing the solid waste collection system, with GIZ
providing technical assistance for the design of the system and the Bank financing its
implementation.

The need to tailor a financial management system in line with the capacity of the implementing
agency. The one significant shortcoming of MMDP I was the inability to implement the
integrated financial management information system as designed. The design proved too
complex for the city council to manage. The city council under MMDP II is now designing a
financial management information system that is in line with its needs and its capacity.




                                              1
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1   Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance)

1.       Country and sector background. Mozambique, like most African countries, is rapidly
urbanizing and urbanization is projected to continue at a rapid pace. In the mid-2000s, over 30
percent of Mozambicans were residing in urban areas. With cities growing at about 3 percent a
year, it is estimated that by 2030 the urban population will double to about 12 million people.

2.      Maputo is Mozambique’s largest and most economically important city, accounting for
about 30 percent of the country’s gross domestic product. In 2010 Maputo was home to about
1.1 million people, more than twice as many as lived in Matola, the country’s second largest city,
and part of the Maputo metropolitan area. The population o Maputo swells during the day, as
commuters come from the surrounding areas to work in the city. Maputo is also a city of
extreme and growing inequality with approximately 70 percent of Maputo’s residents living in
informal settlements and 49 percent living below the poverty line. Little investment has been
made in the city’s infrastructure since independence, due in part to Mozambique’s long civil war
which ended in 1992. As a result, most residents lack access to basic infrastructure services,
including water and sanitation services, serviced and affordable land, roads, drainage, and
electricity.

3.      A lack of human and financial capacity has limited the ability of the City Council of
Maputo (CCM) to deliver the services for which it is responsible: solid waste management, basic
water and sanitation services, basic environmental quality, urban roads and drainage, urban
planning, licensing of construction, municipal policing, and others. In 2005, only 1.5 percent of
the CCM’s 2,500 staff had attended university, and only 7 percent had benefited from technical
training. Even in key units, such as municipal finance, just 54 of 102 staff positions were filled.
Of the 54 staff, only 18 had the required qualifications. Moreover, 11 of these occupied
managerial positions, leaving just seven to staff to handle the technical work. Some 26 of the
remaining 36 staff had only primary education. Yet, the financial directorate was better staffed
than the others in the CCM.

4.      In 2005 the total budget of the CCM amounted to US$6 per capita. The CCM faced
substantial constraints in both own-source revenue generation and in budget planning and
control. Only 5 percent of total properties in the city paid taxes each year. The city lacked an
up-to-date property cadastre and other tools to assess and collect property taxes. It also lacked
the means to levy and collect other municipal taxes and fees. On the expenditure side, the CCM
was not able to effective plan, execute, and control expenditures. Without strengthening the
capacity of the CCM, urban services and infrastructure would continue to worsen, threatening
Maputo’s ability to serve as the engine of economic growth for the country.

5.      Recognizing the crisis that lay ahead, the CCM, led by the Maputo’s second elected
mayor, embarked on developing a 10-year municipal development program, called ProMaputo.
Its goal is to raise the quality of life of municipal residents and create an environment conducive
for investment and job creation. It would do this through improved delivery of services and

                                                2
through mobilization of citizens and coordinated action between diverse actors. ProMaputo
served as the basis for the Bank-financed ProMaputo: Maputo Municipal Development Program
(MMDP), an eight-year program carried out two phases. The first phase of the MMDP is the
subject of this Implementation Completion and Results Report.

6.      Rationale for World Bank involvement. The World Bank’s involvement in the
program was valuable for several reasons. First, the Bank is uniquely positioned to make the
long-term commitment required for urban development, focusing first on institutional reform and
building capacity for city administration and then on large-scale investment in infrastructure and
services once the foundation is laid. Second, the Bank has developed considerable knowledge of
what works and what does not in urban development through its support for urban and local
government programs in Africa (including Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, and Ethiopia) and in
other regions, which it could draw on in designing support for Maputo. Third, it had experience
working in Mozambique in supporting development of local government administrations under
the Decentralized Planning and Finance Project, which closed in March 2009, and the Municipal
Development Program that closed in 2006. Finally, the Bank is able to bring considerable
human and financial resources to the effort, which has the potential of making a big difference in
the delivery of infrastructure and services in Maputo. Recognizing these strengths, the
government invited the Bank to take the lead in supporting a municipal development program for
Maputo.

7.      Contribution to higher-level objectives. The project was a central element of the
Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mozambique for fiscal 2008–11, discussed by
the World Bank’s Board of Directors on May 30, 2007. This is based on three pillars: (a)
accountability and public voice, (b) equitable access to key services, and (c) broad-based
economic growth. These pillars are aligned with the three pillars of with the government’s
second poverty reduction strategy, Programa da Acção da Redução da Pobreza Absoluta II. The
Maputo Municipal Development Program phase 1 (MMDP I) contributed to each of these pillars.
It contributed to the accountability pillar by supporting a variety of initiatives aimed at involving
citizens in planning, budgeting, and monitoring and providing feedback on government
performance. Support for district participatory budgeting and the annual citizen report card are
one such initiative. It contributed to the services and economic growth pillars by supporting
improved city administration and investment in urban services and infrastructure. The project
complemented others in the portfolio aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the public
administration, including the Public Sector Reform Project, and the National Decentralized
Planning and Finance Program, a multi-donor operation that scaled up to all districts the earlier
Bank-financed Decentralized Planning and Finance Project. Finally, the MMDP I was fully
consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s 2011 regional strategy for Africa, “Africa’s Future
and the World Bank’s Support to It,? which are to increase Africa’s competitiveness and
employment, to reduce its vulnerability to climatic and other shocks, and to improve governance
and public sector capacity.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.    The project development objective for phase 1 of the MMDP was to strengthen the
Maputo City Council’s institutional and financial capacity to support achievement of long-term

                                                 3
service delivery goals, and to implement selected priority investments. Phase 1 was intended to
create the foundation for large-scale investments in infrastructure and services to be financed
under phase 2.

9.     The project appraisal document specified three key performance indicators. These were:

              Nominal increase in Maputo City Council’s own revenue over baseline.

              Amount of solid waste deposited in the waste dump.

              An integrated financial management system in use and fully functional as
               designed.

10.     A table in annex 3 of the project appraisal document provides further information on the
project’s monitoring framework, including intermediate outcome indicators, baseline and target
values, and sources of information to track progress with the indicators.

1.1    Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification:

11.    Neither the project’s development objectives nor key performance indicators were
formally revised.

1.2    Main Beneficiaries

12.     The primary target beneficiaries were the inhabitants of Maputo city and its suburbs,
estimated in 2010 to be about 1.1 million people, who were expected to gain from improved
urban services and infrastructure. Inhabitants of poor neighborhoods were especially expected to
benefit from improved solid waste collection and from improved access roads. Staff of the CCM
were expected to be assisted from opportunities to upgrade skills, from working in a much more
professional environment, and from improved relations with the public. Finally, businesses were
expected to benefit from an improved investment climate linked to enhanced urban infrastructure
and services.

1.5    Original Components (as approved):

13.   The project comprised three components: (a) institutional reform and municipal
governance, (b) municipal finance, and (c) planning and service delivery improvements.

14.     Component A: Institutional reform and municipal governance (US$8.0 million, of
which US$6.2 million IDA). This component comprised two subcomponents: (i) institutional
reform and strengthening, and (ii) improved municipal governance. The first subcomponent was
to finance (a) preparation and implementation of a restructuring plan for the CCM, (b)
strengthening of human resources management, (c) simplification of administrative procedures,
(d) creation of capacity of district-level authorities to plan and manage small-scale infrastructure
and urban services, and (e) basic operating costs for the CCM. The second subcomponent was to
support (a) citizen awareness campaigns, (b) training of municipal assembly members on their

                                                 4
roles and responsibilities, (c) workshops and other activities to facilitate communication among
government agencies involved in delivering services in Maputo, and (d) development of public-
private partnerships.

15.      Component 2: Municipal finance (US$4.7 million, all IDA). This component
comprised two subcomponents: (i) improved revenue collection, and (ii) improved expenditure
management. The first subcomponent financed (a) a contract with a private firm to distribute
bills for property taxes and measures to involve district administrations in revenue collection, (b)
design and implementation of a single consolidated database and new systems for generating and
distributing bills and for collecting taxes and fees, (c) improvements in the capacity of municipal
service providers to collect fees, and (d) reform of tax legislation, and (e) training and capacity
building to enhance the municipal revenue system. The second subcomponent financed training
and capacity building in (a) budget preparation, (b) procurement and asset management, and (c)
budget execution and control, including audits.

16.      Component 3: Planning and service delivery improvements (US$26.3 million, of
which IDA 15.1 million). This component comprised three subcomponents: (i) planning and
management of urban space, (ii) infrastructure and service delivery improvements, and (iii) solid
waste management services. The first subcomponent supported (a) preparation of spatial and
sector plans and implementation of a municipal information management system, (b) creation of
capacity in the CCM for strategic, spatial, and sector planning, and (c) improvements in the
systems for land management. The second subcomponent financed (a) rehabilitation of existing
roads and drainage, (b) construction of a new cemetery, (c) installation of street lights and traffic
lights, and (d) construction of markets. The third subcomponent supported improvements in solid
waste management.

1.6    Revised Components:

17.    The components were not revised.

1.7    Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations):

18.    The project’s design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements, and activities were
not changed significantly during project execution. However, funds were reallocated to account
for changes in activities and underestimates in the costs of some services, particularly the costs
of providing solid waste management services.

19.     The project closing date was extended for one year from August 31, 2010 to August 31,
2011. The extension was granted to allow the development and implementation of the integrated
financial management information system (IFMIS) to be completed. This was important because
having the IFMIS in use and fully functional as designed was a trigger for phase 2 of the
program. If this trigger were not met, the project team would have to seek a waiver from Bank
management to proceed with processing MMDP II. The extension was also needed to permit the
project to continue to finance contracts for solid waste management services until the contract-
end dates.

                                                 5
20.     The Financing Agreement was amended twice. The first amendment of March 31, 2009
allowed IDA to continue to finance 65 percent of the cost of solid waste contracts during the
final years of the project, instead of 50 percent as envisaged in the original Financing
Agreement. The change was needed because costs of supplying the services rose steeply in
2009, leaving the CCM short of funds. The second amendment of December 11, 2009 increased
the procurement prior review thresholds for the project. The amendment permitted the Bank to
identify the contracts that would be subject to prior review as part of its normal review of the
procurement plan, rather than being bound by the thresholds specified in the Financing
Agreement.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigation identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable):

QAG–No QAG at entry.

21.     Several factors of project preparation and design positively affected implementation. The
design of the ProMaputo Program was based on extensive consultations with stakeholders to
develop the vision, mission, and development program for Maputo. The stakeholders included
the private sector, civil society organizations, national government officials, and members of
Maputo’s municipal assembly (legislative branch) and city council (executive branch). The
design also benefited from regular and open dialogue between the Bank’s task team and key staff
of the CCM. The design of ProMaputo was also informed by the findings of municipal citizen
report cards, and various studies on the province of Maputo. The design further drew on the
findings of several studies, including the “Analysis of Current Human Resources in Maputo City
Council (2005), studies of Maputo city revenues (2005), and of Maputo’s revenue potential
(2006), a functional analysis of the CCM, and a public-private partnerships framework study
(2006) financed under the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility. These provided a
comprehensive understanding of the situation of the CCM at the time of project preparation, and
recommended measures for strengthening its operations and ability to deliver urban services.
The project included activities focusing on each of these areas.

22.     Project preparation and design also benefited from the personal commitment to the city of
Maputo’s dynamic second elected mayor. The mayor brought substantial managerial and
technical expertise to his position, reflecting his former positions as governor of the central bank
and minister of finance. The mayor also enjoyed good personal relations with the national
authorities, whose support would be needed to provide the CCM with the resources and
autonomy it would need to be effective. The ProMaputo Program became the manifesto of the
mayor.

23.     The project appraisal document noted alternative approaches, the trade-offs between
them, and the rationale for the final decisions. The document generally foresaw the risks the
project would face and identified adequate mitigation measures, although it underestimated the
risk regarding lack of qualified staff in the procurement department of the CCM, which it

                                                 6
regarded as moderate. It accurately noted as substantial the risk that the IFMIS would not be put
into place by the time of project closing.

24.      A thorough appraisal of procurement and financial management arrangements helped to
ensure that resources were used as intended. The project was classified appropriately as
environmental assessment category B (partial assessment), because the planned urban
infrastructure and services were not expected to result in environmental damage or significant
resettlement. All infrastructure investments for which sites would be identified during
implementation were subject to review under the project’s environmental and social management
framework (ESMF) and resettlement policy framework (RPF), which specified in detail
procedures to be followed during the planning, design, construction, and operation phases of
subprojects to identify and to mitigate potential adverse impacts. The ESMF and RPF report
prepared for the project was publicly disclosed on October 21, 2006 in-country and on October
24, 2006 through the Bank’s InfoShop. The monitoring and evaluation framework was adequate,
with well-specified project PDO outcome and intermediate outcome indicators and baseline and
target values. The CCM and the Bank worked together to develop the results framework, which
ensured that it reflected outcomes that both partners were committed to achieving. By the time
of Board presentation the project implementation plan had been appraised and found to be
realistic and of satisfactory quality, engineering designs and procurement documents for the first
year’s activities were complete and ready for the start of project implementation.

25.     Although the project appraisal document specified a large number of effectiveness
conditions, these were appropriate in ensuring that the CCM had required management capacity
prior to the start of implementation.1 The CCM quickly met the conditions, and the project
became effective about two months after the Board date, as planned. In addition to the standard
financial covenants, the Financing Agreement included covenants intended to ensure that the
project met its objectives. These included covenants requiring preparation and submission to
IDA a strategy to retain qualified and trained staff, entry into an agreement with the Electricity
Company of Mozambique to allow the CCM to collect solid waste management fees, and
agreement with IDA on bidding documents for the selection and employment of contractors to
implement urban infrastructure and services.

26.      In summary, the design was appropriate to meet the project’s objectives.




1
          Conditions of effectiveness were: (a) CCM will have established an adequate financial management system
capable of producing financial monitoring reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, (b) The
CCM will have adopted the (i) a financial management manual, (ii) a procurement manual, and (iii) a project
implementation manual, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, (c) the CCM’s 2005 audited
financial statements will have been submitted in a manner satisfactory to the Association, (d) the CCM will have
issued a request for proposals for selection of independent auditors for the audit of its 2006 financial statements, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, (e) the CCM will have established the office of strategic and
institutional development and appointed its head, (f) the CCM will have hired an institutional development advisor,
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, (g) the CCM will have established a procurement department
duly staffed by a qualified department head supported by a senior procurement officer, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, and (h) the CCM will have executed a Subsidiary Agreement with the Recipient.

                                                          7
2.2     Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project
at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):

27.      Several factors affected implementation. The most important was the decision to
mainstream implementation of the project within the administration of the CCM. In the mid-
2000s, this was one of only two projects in the Bank’s portfolio in Mozambique not using a
professional project implementation unit for management. This decision led to implementation
delays due to challenges with procurement, financial management, and contract management.
None-the-less, mainstreaming implementation is critical for building lasting administrative
capacity in the CCM. The CCM over time bolstered its capacity for project implementation by
contracting advisors to provide assistance and training in the fields of project management,
institutional development, strategic planning, infrastructure, revenue generation, expenditure
management, social accountability, procurement, human resources management, engineering,
IFMIS, information technology, and solid waste management. The CCM also enhanced its
capacity by making special efforts to recruit recent university graduates to work in the
administration and by offering bonuses to high-performing staff. These measures helped the
CCM improve its performance over time.

28.     Another critical factor affecting implementation was the intensive support provided by
the Bank’s task team. The Bank team responded to start-up challenges with intensive
supervision, and downgraded the project’s ratings for progress towards the development
objective (to moderately satisfactory) and for implementation progress (to moderately
unsatisfactory) in January 2008, nine months following effectiveness. The downgrades reflected
slow progress with undertaking activities to expand the cadastre and in specifying the design of
the proposed IFMIS. Both were critical activities required to improve Maputo’s revenues and
financial management. The downgrades also took account of delays in activities related to the
city information management system, in the development of the urban plans by the Department
of Urban Planning, and in finalizing contracts with solid waste firms. The downgrades were
intended to focus the attention of the CCM on finding solutions to key issues delaying
implementation. The Bank team worked with the CCM to develop an action plan to overcome
the obstacles. Recognizing that many of the factors required for the project to meet its objectives
were outside the control of the CCM, the Bank team consistently encouraged the CCM to
strengthen its linkages to key national ministries and departments and to utilities. Proactive
supervision led to improved implementation performance and an upgrade in April 2006 to
moderately satisfactory and in July 2006 to satisfactory in the rating for implementation progress
(progress towards the development objective remained moderately satisfactory during this
period, due to slow progress with designing and implementing IFMIS).

29.    A third factor supporting implementation was an effective communications program that
enabled the CCM to engage citizens in improving service delivery in Maputo. The CCM
organized regular public forums at the neighborhood and district levels to discuss the findings of
the annual citizen’s report cards and to hear specific ideas of how the CCM could improve its
services to residents. Such forums were also used to learn citizens’ priorities for investments and
budgets for the coming financial years. More recently, it has carried out public awareness
campaigns through newspapers, television, radio, and the internet to encourage people to pay

                                                8
their property and business services taxes. The CCM also conducted public awareness
campaigns intended to address HIV/AIDS. These measures have increased the profile of the
CCM. They also encouraged residents to get involved in improving the quality of life in
Maputo.

30.     The midterm review provided a comprehensive assessment of progress towards
development objectives and implementation performance. The midterm review confirmed the
overall relevance of the project, its objectives and key performance indicators, design, and
implementation arrangements. It also identified implementation challenges and recommended
extending the project’s closing date by one year to allow sufficient time to complete key
activities and achieve its objectives.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

31.     Design. The project appraisal document included a results framework with well-
specified PDO outcome and intermediate outcome indicators, and with baseline and target values
for all indicators. All three outcome indicators served as triggers for phase 2 of the APL, in
addition to two of the four intermediate outcome indicators. The three PDO outcome indicators
address aspects of the project development objective. Specifically, increases in own-source
revenues and implementation of the IFMIS reflect the CCM’s strengthened institutional and
financial capacity. Increases in tons solid waste collected and deposited in a dumpsite is an
indication of the CCM’s ability to implement priority investments. Consistent with good
practice, all the indicators were measurable and the targets were generally realistic. Due to their
efficacy, many of the indicators have been retained to monitor progress under phase 2 of the
program.

32.     Implementation. The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was integrated with
other systems of administration, with line managers of each directorate assigned responsibility
for collecting data in their areas of purview and providing them to the CCM’s Office of Strategic
and Institutional Development, which is responsible for the overall program coordination and
monitoring. Not surprisingly, the implementation of the M&E system took longer than expected,
due to the CCM’s lack of experience with M&E. To address this weakness, the head of the
Office of Strategic and Institutional Development prepared monitoring reports using the traffic
light approach that makes clear who is complying with his or her responsibility to provide data
and who is not. The reports formed the basis for weekly staff discussions on implementation
progress and for periodic presentations to the mayor, the municipality’s consultative council, the
municipal assembly, and other stakeholders. Using such graphic reports proved effective in
focusing attention on the issues; data collection and reporting improved markedly once in place.
The Bank team reported on the functioning of the project’s M&E system in each aide memoire,
noting steady progress in implementation during the project’s life. The project also financed
three municipal citizen report cards to measure trends in citizens’ views of the quality of services
being delivered by the CCM.

33.     Utilization. The CCM and Bank teams used the monitoring information as the basis of
their discussions during each implementation support mission. Specifically, they used the
information to identify areas of particular challenge and to identify measures to address them.

                                                 9
For example, the teams observed slow procurement of several major contracts (human resources
management, IFMIS, CCM restructuring) and agreed on actions (such as hiring more
procurement officers under Bank-finance) to speed up the process. The CCM used the
monitoring reports to report on implementation progress to the mayor, the municipality’s
consultative council, the municipal assembly, and other stakeholders. This helped to motivate
CCM staff to contribute to the project. It also helped further the dialogue with national
authorities on issues such as the need to mobilize own-source revenues to effectively deliver
urban services and infrastructure. The findings of the annual citizen report cards were widely
disseminated and played an important role in focusing the attention of the CCM staff on their
responsibilities to deliver services to residents. Public forums led by the president and the
councilors to discuss the findings with city officials proved instrumental in strengthening
accountability of the CCM to citizens.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable):

34.     The CCM struggled to comply with the Bank’s fiduciary policies in the early years of
implementation. Quarterly financial monitoring reports were often late, and many contained
errors. Several annual audit reports were not submitted on time. Early audit reports revealed
accountability issues at the CCM. Financial management was rated moderately satisfactory
during most of the project implementation period, including at closing. It was rated moderately
unsatisfactory in two Implementation Status Reports (November 24, 2009 and February 11,
2010). This rating arose from late submission of the 2008 audit report (which was due in
February 2009, but was received only in November 2009), and to its qualified opinion on the
CCM’s financial statements, for reasons including the inability of the auditors to verify assets,
and some issues related to the project’s system of internal controls and accountability.

35.     The CCM had difficulty complying with the Bank’s procurement procedures, particularly
in the early years of implementation, which led to delays in project execution. The challenges
were due in part to the decision to use the CCM structures to implement the project, rather than a
specialized project implementation unit. In accordance with Bank advice, the CCM sent four
staff for training on the Bank’s procurement procedures. It also contracted advisors to bolster
capacity of the municipal procurement department. However, turnover of procurement staff was
very high (as is true with many donor-financed projects), necessitating continuous recruitment
and training of new procurement specialists. Some weaknesses remained at project closing in
the procurement filing system and in contract management.

36.     The project complied fully with the Bank’s Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies.
Several missions included Bank safeguard specialists, who visited project sites, interviewed
project affected people, and held discussions with district and municipal staff and with officials
from the Ministry of Environmental Coordination. They found that resettlement associated with
road upgrading was carried in full compliance with the project’s RPF, prior to the
commencement of the works. They also noted that the solid waste firms and microenterprises
were generally providing workers with protective clothing and with training aimed at
encouraging its use. Several activities with potential environmental and social impacts that were



                                               10
initially programmed for phase 1 were shifted to phase 2. These included closure of a waste
dump.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation,
if applicable):

37.     The MMDP I was conceived as the first phase of an eight-year program. Although the
closing date for phase 1 was extended by one year, phase 2 was approved on September 30, 2010
and became effective on January 21, 2011, less than six months later than originally planned.
The project development objective of phase 2 is to improve the delivery and sustainability of
priority municipal services in Maputo municipality. Phase 2 thus builds on the institutional
foundation laid under phase 1, as planned. Phase 2 is also supporting reforms and capacity
building left incomplete under phase 1.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

Overall rating: Highly Satisfactory

38.     Objectives. The overall objectives of MMDP I were and remain highly relevant. They
reflect the importance of strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of the CCM to
effectively deliver services and infrastructure. As mentioned in section 1.1, the project’s
objectives are consistent with the objectives of the CCM’s ProMaputo Program and with
Mozambique’s second poverty reduction strategy, covering 2006–09. The project’s objectives
are in conformity with the objectives of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy for fiscal 2008–
11, which explicitly names accountability and public voice, equitable access to key services, and
broad-based economic growth as critical goals.

39.     Design. The design was and remains highly relevant. The overall design was
appropriate to support the substantial institutional reforms and capacity building required to
enable the CCM to effectively deliver services and infrastructure for which it was responsible.
The design was based on extensive consultations with stakeholders, and on analytical work
covering all aspects of the CCM’s functions and institutional setup. The consultations and
analytical work highlighted the weaknesses in CCM’s organizational structure, management
systems, accountability arrangements, and financing, among others, and recommended
approaches for addressing them. The work formed the basis of the CCM’s 10-year ProMaputo
Program and the Bank-financed MMDP, which is continuing under phase 2.

40.    Implementation. Implementation arrangements were and remain highly relevant. The
Bank team appropriately mainstreamed implementation of the MMDP I within the CCM
organizational structure. This was aimed at both facilitating the transfer of knowledge and
promoting sustainability of capacity built. The MMDP I supported advisors in the fields of

                                               11
project management, institutional development, strategic planning, infrastructure, revenue
generation, expenditure management, social accountability, procurement, human resources
management, engineering, IFMIS, information technology, and solid waste management, and
others as needed. The advisors ensured that implementation stayed on track, and helped build
capacity of CCM staff through on-the-job training. The project also financed the contracts of
young university graduates for a fixed period, as a means of rapidly enhancing staff capacity at
the CCM. At the end of the trial period, the successful young people were offered staff contracts
at the CCM under CCM financing. The project’s M&E arrangements were highly relevant, with
detailed monitoring reports highlighting achievements and implementation challenges. These
reports formed the basis of discussions with both staff and high-level decision makers, which
helped to focus attention of project implementers on finding solutions to obstacles.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

41.      MMDP phase 1 largely achieved its objectives to strengthen the Maputo City Council’s
institutional and financial capacity to support achievement of long-term service delivery goals,
and to implement selected priority investments. Through introduction of reforms and
strengthening of capacity, the CCM is now much more capable of delivering on its mandate and
contributing to an improving quality of life in Maputo than it was prior to the start of the project.
All but one of the PDO outcome targets were achieved. All of the intermediate outcome
indicators were achieved and most of the component-level targets were met. Specifically:

      Maputo City Council’s own revenue rose. Revenues rose from US$3.5 million in 2006
       to US$9.8 million (annualized) by March 2010. This is a gain of 180 percent over
       baseline, and significantly higher than the 120 percent original target value. Revenues
       rose due primarily to increases in solid waste fees and improved collection of property
       and vehicle taxes.

      The quantity of urban solid waste collected and deposited in the dump rose.
       Quantities rose from 253 tons per day in 2006 to 650 tons per day by August 2011.
       Improvements in solid waste management was one of the significant achievements of the
       MMDP I. The project financed two solid waste collection contracts, with one firm
       covering the urban core and the other focusing on the suburbs. This provided for the first
       time services outside the city core, where about 90 percent of residents live and are poor.
       The number of people served with regular solid waste collection services thus rose from
       about 100,000 in 2006 to 1 million in 2011. The firms deposited large collection
       containers at regular intervals and emptied them at least once a day. The project also
       supported the creation of microenterprises to collect refuse in densely populated poor
       neighborhoods, which are best served with handcarts manned by two operators on foot.
       The handcart operators empty their bins into the large containers, which are situated on
       the major roads. The large firms and the microenterprises, along with municipal
       employees, thus form part of an integrated system of solid waste management. Solid
       waste collection fees have been gradually increased to cover the costs of solid waste
       collection, and the CCM will progressively take responsibility for paying for the services.
       See box 1 for more information on the role of the microenterprises in the overall system.


                                                 12
Box 1: Microenterprises collect waste and create jobs for neighborhood residents
  One of the major challenges for waste collection is the access to the densely populated
  suburban neighborhoods where about 90 percent of Maputo’s residents reside. CCM
  introduced a solution that is based on a two-step waste collection system. The first step,
  primary waste collection, is operated by locally-based microenterprises that provide a simple
  door-to-door waste collection service twice a week with locally available handcarts. The
  handcart collectors deposit the waste in large dumpsters that are placed at regular intervals
  along the main thoroughfares. A large firm under contract with the municipality empties the
  dumpsters once a day and transfers the waste to the municipal waste disposal site.

  In 2011, the CCM extended this service to all 43 suburban neighborhoods, providing services
  for the first time to about 900,000 residents. Each microenterprise employs 8–30 workers,
  and collects waste from 2,000–8,000 households. The employees are all recruited from the
  same neighborhoods served by the microenterprises, which promotes trust, and thus the
  sustainability of the services. Some 35 microenterprises selected through a competitive
  process are now employing about 590 workers. They collect an average of 400 tons of waste
  per day.

  The microenterprises have a formal service contract with CCM, based on the population and
  settlement characteristics of each neighborhood. The total costs of the services in 2011 were
  US$104,000, or roughly US$0.65 per household per month. The service is fully covered
  through the waste fee, collected through the electricity billing system.


42.    Although progress was made, one outcome target has been more difficult to meet than
expected. This is:

      Integrated financial management system in use and fully functional as designed.
       Early during project implementation, a World Bank IFMIS specialist advised the CCM
       on general design issues and assisted with drafting terms of reference and bidding
       documents for procurement of an IFMIS firm. After significant delays, a contract was
       signed in December 2008 with a firm to design and implement an IFMIS. The CCM
       enhanced its capacity to oversee the work by recruiting an IFMIS advisor to be part of its
       team. The Bank also supported the activity by providing advice through its own IFMIS
       expert. However, designing and implementing the IFMIS proved more difficult than
       expected. One issue is a very comprehensive public financial management law in
       Mozambique that requires government entities to adhere to standards set by the Ministry
       of Finance before they can introduce an IFMIS. The Ministry of Finance was slow in
       providing agreeing on the proposed design, delaying the start of the work. The proposed
       design then proved to be too complex to implement in a context of low capacity in the
       CCM. The firm was also unable to meet either the agreed standards or the timetable for
       the work. By January 2010, it was clear that this activity would not be completed by
       August 31, 2010, the closing date of the MMDP I. The Bank approved an extension of
       the closing date for one year to August 31, 2011 to allow the activities that were
       underway to be completed. The Bank team sought a waiver for the trigger that could not
       be met on the grounds that the project had otherwise been implemented satisfactorily, that

                                              13
      the work on the IFMIS would continue under the MMDP II, and that the lack of an
      IFMIS would not jeopardize implementation of the second phase. The Board approved
      the MMDP II on September 30, 2012.

      At the close of the MMDP I, the CCM had in place only a complete database of
      employees, providers, and assets, and payroll functionality in place. Under MMDP II,
      the CCM is preparing a paper laying out the alternatives to a full IFMIS for its financial
      management. In consultation with the Bank team and with support of the MMDP II, it
      will design and implement the most appropriate system for its needs and capacity.
      Specifically, CCM has asked the Ministry of Finance to lead the design work to ensure
      that the system conforms to the national standards. An institute under the auspices of the
      Ministry of Finance, the Centro de Desenvolvimento de Sistemas de Informação de
      Finanças (Center for Development of Public Finance Information Systems), is overseeing
      the design and implementation of the IFMIS at the CCM.

43.   All four intermediate outcomes were achieved. Specifically:

     Organizational units with the new staffing table were defined and existing personnel
      deployed. Following significant delays, related in part to changes in the mayor and key
      personnel at the CCM following the elections of October 2009, a new staffing table had
      been prepared for all 29 organizational units of the CCM and staff had been deployed in
      line with the staffing table. Those staff found to lack the necessary qualifications to fill
      the new positions, were offered training to acquire the skills or positions in other parts of
      the government. The rationalization of the human resources of the CCM is a major step
      forward in increasing its capacity to perform.

     Report cards were conducted and their results disseminated annually. Three report
      cards were completed under the MMDP I, covering 2007, 2008, and 2009/10 to account
      for the election year. The report cards have proved to be very valuable tools in furthering
      the dialogue between the CCM and the residents of Maputo and its suburbs. While
      citizens previously expected little from the CCM, the report cards have focused attention
      on the mandates of the CCM and have led to a significant increase in demand from
      citizens for services. Staff of the CCM are required to participate in forums with citizens
      to discuss the findings of the report cards. Staff at the CCM report that this interaction is
      motivating them to improve delivery of services and thus the scores in the next citizen
      report card.

     The proportion of the investment budget spent rose. The proportion of the CCM’s
      capital budget spent (including ProMaputo) rose from 60 percent in 2010 to 90 percent in
      2010. Excluding ProMaputo, 95 percent of the CCM’s capital budget was spent in 2010.

     Roads rehabilitated under the project, non-rural, reached 85 kilometers by end
      2009. This is significantly higher than the original target of 20 kilometers for MMDP I.
      The target was surpassed because people living in the periphery of Maputo identified
      improved access roads as a priority for them. The CCM responded by focusing attention
      on improving access roads in the later years of the project.

                                               14
3.3    Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate
norms, least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):

44.    Efficiency and cost effectiveness of the roads investments were satisfactory. The project
appraisal document provided estimates of the economic rate of return and net present value of
upgrading various roads in the Maputo area, including one—the Avenida Sebastião Marcos
Mabote—that the project ultimately supported. The main benefits were due to reductions in
vehicle operating costs due to improvements in the quality of the road. Traffic was assumed to
grow by 4.1 percent per year. In actuality, traffic grew by 5.5 percent per year, and vehicle
operating costs fell by more than projected. The current estimate of the net present value and of
the economic rate of return are presented in the table below.

Table 1: Cost benefit analysis for the Avenida Sebastião Marcos Mabote: Current
calculations compared with appraisal estimates
                                                        Current estimates    Appraisal estimate
 Avenida Sebastião       Net present value (US$)               3.6 million           3.2 million
 Marcos Mabote           Economic rate of return              103 percent           100 percent

45.     The original economic analysis referred to a number of nonquantifiable economic
benefits, such as savings in travel time, increases in values of properties that become more
accessible, and reduced costs of repairing roads, structures, and property arising from improved
drainage. The actual nonquantified benefits are likely to be significant. The Avenida Sebastião
Marcos Mabote connects the expansion areas of the city to the downtown. These areas are in the
suburbs of the city, and are being developed to accommodate people resettled from the core city
to make way for infrastructure and to house the increasing numbers of rural to urban migrants.
The extension of the Avenida Sebastião Marcos Mabote has led to much reduced travel times
between the core city and the suburbs, allowing residents to get to their jobs and access services.
It has also led to rising property values, as land is converted from agricultural uses for housing
and business use. Inclusion of drainage systems has reduced stormwater damage to the road and
to nearby structures. Creation of walkways has led to improved traffic flow and greater comfort
for pedestrians. The story is similar for Avenida Nelson Mandela. This major thoroughfare
connects the core city to outlying areas. Both roads also connect to the highway that connects
Maputo to the northern parts of the country.

Cost effectiveness

46.    The MMDP I supported three roads projects in addition to the rehabilitation of Avenida
Sebastião Marcos Mabote. Table 2 shows the details of all the road projects supported under the
MMDP I.




                                                   15
Table 2: Details of roads projects supported under MMDP I
   Street       Traffic       Length      Lanes     Width      Total cost      Cost per        Nature of work
                 count     (kilometers)           sidewalks     (US$)           meter
                (annual                              (m)                    lane/kilometer
                average
                 daily
                traffic)
 Avenida         26,235            5.6       4           3     $4,748,961       $212,007     Rehabilitation and
 Sebastião                                                                                   extension (paved),
 Marcos                                                                                      including addition
 Mabote                                                                                      of drainage systems
                                                                                             and sidewalks
 Avenida         13,202            5.4       3           4     $3,939,351       $243,170     Rehabilitation and
 Nelson                                                                                      extension (paved),
 Mandela                                                                                     including addition
                                                                                             of drainage systems
                                                                                             and sidewalks
 Unpaved                           40        2           0      $654,793          $8,185     Excavation,
 roads in                                                                                    regraveling, addition
 municipal                                                                                   of drainage ditches,
 districts 2,                                                                                signaling,
 3, and 5                                                                                    landscaping.
 Unpaved                           34        2           0      $665,621          $9,789     Excavation,
 roads in                                                                                    regraveling, addition
 municipal                                                                                   of drainage ditches,
 districts                                                                                   signaling,
 Catembe                                                                                     landscaping.
 Total                             85                         $10,008,726

47.     The unit costs of rehabilitating and regraveling roads under the MMDP I were well below
the average for African countries, according to a background paper prepared for the World
Bank’s 2008 Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic. These costs are presented in table 3. The
unit costs of rehabilitating the Avenida Sebastião Marcos Mabote were below the average of the
lowest quartile and the rehabilitation of Avenida Nelson Mandela was only slightly higher than
the average. Notably, the unit costs of regraveling were substantially lower than the average of
the lowest quartile for this type of work.

Table 3: Unit costs of road construction and maintenance in Africa, 2008
 Type                          Unit          Lower quartile   Median quartile  Upper quartile
 Rehabilitation            US$/lane/km           $220,186         $352,613         $505,323
 (paved) less than 50
 kilometers
 Regraveling               US$/lane/km             $12,835         $15,625           $19,490
Source: World Bank, 2008. “Unit Costs of Infrastructure Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa,? Africa
Infrastructure Country Diagnostic, background paper 11, June.




                                                    16
Solid Waste Management

Cost effectiveness

48.     Cost effectiveness of the investments in solid waste services was satisfactory. A cost
benefit analysis for the investments in solid waste management was carried for the appraisal of
the MMDP I. This calculated the internal rate of return to be 20 percent and the net present
value of the cash flow at a discount rate of 12 percent to be US$650,000. Unfortunately, data are
not available to permit an update of the estimates from the original economic analysis.

49.     However, a comparison of the costs of delivering solid waste services in Maputo with
those in other medium-size cities in developing indicates that costs in Maputo are well within the
norms. See table 4 for details.

Table 4: Average per capita and per ton costs of solid waste services in Maputo compared
with medium size cities in developing countries (US$m)
                                   Cost per capita per year (US$)         Cost per ton (US$)
 Maputo 2010                                       3.67                               20
 Medium-size cities 2006*                    3.33–4.00                       17.78–26.67
Source: Shantha R. Parthan, Mark W. Milke, David C. Wilson and John H. Cocks. 2011. “Cost Function
Analysis for Solid Waste Management: A Developing Country Experience.? In Waste Management and
Research, November 10, 2011.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs,
and efficiency):

Rating: Satisfactory

50.     Achievement of the objectives of the MDP I is rated satisfactory. The operation
objectives, design, and implementation arrangements were and remain highly relevant. The
operation achieved nearly all of its intended outcomes. The CCM’s institutional and financial
capacity to support achievement of long-term service delivery goals and to implement selected
priority investments has been significantly strengthened. Efficiency and cost effectiveness of
investments in roads were satisfactory. The roads projects supported under the MMDP I
generated an economic rate of return of 103 percent and a net present value of US$3.6 million.
Unit costs of all roads projects were lower than average for roads projects in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Solid waste services were delivered cost effectively. The project’s one shortcoming was the
failure to put into place a functioning IFMIS prior to the closing of the project. However,
MMDP II is supporting implementation of a computerized financial management system, so its
absence under MMDP I does not pose a risk to the sustainability of the development outcome of
the project. High relevance and satisfactory achievement of objectives justifies an overall
outcome rating of satisfactory for the operation.




                                               17
3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered
or to amplify discussion above):

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

51.     The MMDP I did not have a specific poverty, gender, or social development focus.
However, the expansion of solid waste services to poor suburban neighborhoods has been a
major benefit for the poor who no longer have to live with unsightly and often unhealthy
informal garbage dumps. The creation of the solid waste microenterprises has also generated
hundreds of jobs for local residents, many of whom are women. The project also supported the
construction of a facility where waste pickers can sort through trash in safe working conditions
and has promoted the use of protective clothing by trash collectors. Upgrading of access roads
that link suburban areas with downtown Maputo is also disproportionately benefiting the poor,
who can now access jobs and services more quickly and at lower cost than previously. As noted
above, the undertaking annually of the municipal score card survey has shifted the dynamic
between the CCM as a provider of services and Maputo residents, who now much more vocally
demand services to which they are entitled. Over time, this is expected to lead to greater
transparency and accountability of the CCM to citizens, and to promote social development more
broadly. The MMDP I supported the definition and implementation of an HIV/AIDS strategy, a
workplace policy, and an action plan, aimed at reducing the risk of transmitting HIV/AIDS and
of mitigating the impact of those affected. Specific activities included awareness campaigns,
voluntary testing and counseling services, workplace advocacy, and provision of nutritional
support to family members living with HIV/AIDS, among others. Support for such activities
will continue under MMDP II.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development):

52.     The project helped to bring about key institutional reforms intended to increase the
capacity of the CCM to effectively and efficiently deliver services. Specifically, it supported the
restructuring of the CCM to align its organizational structure with its functions, strengthening of
human resources management, adoption of modern information management systems,
improvements in budgeting, revenue mobilization, and accounting. These far-reaching reforms
are already resulting in improved services for Maputo households and businesses.

53.      The project also supported significant reorganization in the way solid waste services are
delivered. It encouraged the CCM to focus on the core functions of policy development and
planning of solid waste services, while contracting out to private firms and microenterprises the
job of collecting and disposing of garbage. The firms and microenterprises are paid on the basis
of performance, so have a strong incentive to deliver the services. Residents have noticed that
services have improved and are now paying increasing amounts to sustain them. The project
facilitated the creation of some 25 public private partnerships. Private enterprises are now
managing and maintaining municipal parks and gardens, parking lots, and public sanitary
facilities under public-private partnership arrangements. See box 2 for more on public private
partnerships.


                                                18
Box 2: Public private partnerships have enhanced the capacity of the CCM to deliver a
variety of services
      The CCM’s program of public private partnerships (PPPs) began in 2005 during the formulation
      phase of MMDP I. Through the World Bank, the CCM made preliminary contacts with the Public
      Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), whose staff expressed strong interest in
      supporting a PPP program at the municipal level. The resulting grant from the PPIAF funded an
      initial two-year program of support comprising strategic assessments, legal analyses, definition of
      procedures and guidelines for project development, training for CCM personnel, and direct
      technical assistance for the preparation of the municipality’s first PPP projects. In addition to an
      emerging PPP portfolio, under MMDP I a PPP department was established in the municipal
      directorate of economic activities and staffed with university graduates in key specializations of
      law, economics and engineering.

      With further short term assistance funded by PPIAF, the municipality developed a portfolio of over
      25 PPPs, ranging from private management of public parks to the development of municipal
      parking lots, transport terminals, and commercial facilities in high traffic public transit areas. More
      recently the CCM contracted a private operator to establish paid hourly parking in the central
      commercial and business district, mobilized private investors to rehabilitate degraded municipal
      buildings, and ceded municipal land tied to private investments in a multistory parking structure.
      In addition, with credit support the CCM has prepared a municipal bylaw to adapt new national
      PPP legislation to the specific legal and institutional situation of a municipality.

      While these initial experiences have been broadly positive—and private capital and management
      has been mobilized to improve the coverage and quality of municipal facilities—the CCM
      continues to face both operational capacity constraints in the identification, appraisal, negotiation,
      and supervision of PPP projects as well as in clarifying the strategic potential of PPPs in developing
      municipal facilities and services. As a result, before the end of MMDP I CCM contracted an
      assessment of the PPP program to assist in the further development of both its internal capacities to
      formulate and manage PPPs and to assist the municipality in refining its strategies and criteria for
      the identification of suitable potential PPPs. The analysis and recommendations of this PPP
      assessment consultancy provided guidance for plans for consolidating and gradually enhancing the
      scope and quality of CCM’s PPP program, with support from the MMDP II.

(c)       Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

54.       The project did not result in any significant unintended consequences.

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

55.     The risk to development outcome is rated low or negligible. The CCM has demonstrated
its commitment to improving its functioning since it developed the ProMaputo Program. With
some delays, due primarily to weaknesses in capacity, it has consistently implemented the
program as designed. In addition, the new mayor reiterated his commitment to the program
shortly after taking office. The Bank’s continuing engagement with the CCM under the MMDP

                                                   19
II will help ensure that the CCM continues to strengthen its capacity to effectively deliver on its
mandates.

56.      The benefits of the capacity building support of the project are likely to be sustained—the
major objective of mainstreaming implementation of the MMDP within the CCM’s structure—
although challenges remain. The majority of staff trained and mentored under the project in
financial management, procurement, contract management, urban and strategic planning, human
resources management, communications, and information management remain in the CCM.
Many of the young university graduates recruited to enhance staff capacity also remain in place.
The CCM has instituted a policy of rewarding high performing staff with bonuses that can
effectively double their salaries. This has proven to be a strong incentive for the best qualified
staff to remain at the CCM.

57.     Sustainability of the infrastructure and services financed under the MMDP I is likely.
The CCM has already developed a plan to increase fees for solid waste services to full cost
recovery levels by 2017, assuming it is operating a new more expensive landfill by then.
Maintenance of roads is likely due to the CCM’s current practice of establishing annual budgets
and work plans for maintenance of roads, started under the MMDP I. In addition, the CCM has
strengthened its capacity for managing routine maintenance contracts. District administrations
have also been trained to undertake spot repairs to unpaved roads after each rainy season.
Support to further improve operations and maintenance will be continued under the MMDP II.

58.     Sustainability of the operations of the CCM will also depend on its ability to mobilize
increasing amounts of own-source revenue. Several activities under the MMDP II are aimed at
helping the CCM do this. For example, it is supporting (a) the expansion and updating of
properties information in the municipal cadastre, (b) improved practices for property
assessments, (c) enhanced municipal billing and collection systems, including through private
sector participation, (d) public information campaigns to encourage and inform citizens of their
tax obligations, and (e) updating of municipal tax regulations and procedures. The project is also
supporting overall improvements in public financial management, including through
implementation of an IFMIS and strengthening of procurement and internal controls. These
measures are intended to improve value for money spent.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase):

Rating: Satisfactory

59.     The Bank’s overall performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. The
Bank’s performance in identification was satisfactory. The Bank maintained a continuous and
close dialogue with the mayor of Maputo and his management team at the CCM soon after he
was elected. The Bank supported a number of important pieces of analytical work that brought
into stark relief the weaknesses in the CCM—including organizational setup, and financial and
                                                20
human resources—that limited its ability to deliver on its mandates. The Bank also provided
assistance to facilitate the CCM’s consultative workshops that informed the ProMaputo Program.
Acknowledging the strong relationship that the Bank had established with the government in the
area of local government and its ability to make a long-term commitment to urban development,
the government asked the Bank to support the ProMaputo Program. The Bank responded
appropriately, preparing an eight-year adaptable program loan, and providing extensive advice
with design and safeguard issues. The project’s design reflected lessons learned from the Bank-
financed Mozambique Decentralized Planning and Finance Project, the Municipal Development
Program, and from experiences in other countries with urban development.

60.     The Bank’s performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The project
implementation plan had been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
Procedures for environmental screening of small infrastructure projects had been agreed.
Processes for procurement and fiduciary management had been assessed and steps agreed to
ensure that funds were used as intended. A well-designed results framework had been prepared,
with well-specified indicators and baseline and target values. Arrangements for monitoring and
reporting had been agreed. Appraisal of implementation arrangements was satisfactory with
agreements reached on the roles and responsibilities of the various directorates of the CCM in
implementation. A capacity building plan had been prepared. Engineering designs and
procurement documents for the first year’s activities were complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.

(b)    Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

61.     Bank performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. Supervision was intense
throughout the period of MMDP I implementation. Although the project has had two task team
leaders—one from identification until mid-2008, and the other from mid-2008 until the project
closed—the transition was seamless, because the second team leader had served as a team
member from the beginning. He subsequently moved to Maputo to provide daily support to the
CCM. The Bank’s management team has actively overseen project implementation to help
ensure that the project remained on track to meet its objectives. The senior operations officer in
her comments on implementation support noted that the project was one of the best performing
in the Bank’s Mozambique portfolio.

62.     The Bank fielded some 11 implementation missions during the project’s four and 1/2
years of implementation. Missions took place at least two times a year, with smaller missions
(often in combination with implementation support for other projects) taking place in between
the formal missions. Missions lasted one to two weeks each and typically comprised ten or more
members, including foreign and local consultants with expertise in urban development, local
government administration, IFMIS, environmental and social safeguards, monitoring and
evaluation, procurement, and financial management. To ensure very regular contact with the
project implementers, the Bank team held video and audio conferences with the CCM between
missions on key issues arising during implementation.



                                               21
63.     Aide memoires were of exceptionally high quality, with frank analysis of key issues and
practical recommendations of how to address obstacles. Implementation support routinely
reported on progress with activities under each component, performance of the CCM and its
individual departments in implementing the project, progress towards the PDO outcome targets,
financial management, procurement, and compliance with safeguards and with legal covenants.

64.     The team responded proactively to challenges as soon as they arose and tried to find
effective solutions to them. For example, when issues arose in designing the IFMIS, the task
team brought a Bank IFMIS specialist to Maputo to assess the situation and advise the CCM on
options for such a financial management information system. It also advised the government to
recruit an IFMIS under MMDP I finance to oversee the work at the CCM. In addition, the task
team also sought guidance from Bank management, procurement, financial management, and
legal departments.

65.     The Bank team consistently rated project performance indicators realistically. It rated
implementation performance moderately unsatisfactory nine months after effectiveness. It
carefully reviewed both progress towards development and implementation performance during
each mission, and generally provided a justification for the ratings in the aide memoires.

66.     The Bank team also played a key role in ensuring that development partners’
contributions to the development of Maputo supported the broad ProMaputo Program. For
example, it partnered with the German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) in designing
the solid waste management system, with GIZ supporting the development of the 10-year
strategic plan for solid waste management (2008–2017), assisting with creation of the solid waste
collection microenterprises and providing equipment, and the Bank financing the large solid
waste services contracts. The Bank is continuing to play an important role in coordinating
development partners’ contributions to Maputo’s development through its leadership of the
Decentralization Working Group, which comprises all the major partners contributing to
development of urban and local governments.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

67.    The Bank’s overall performance was satisfactory. In lending, the Bank assisted the CCM
with analytical work and facilitation support to develop the ProMaputo Program. It responded to
government’s request to finance a Maputo urban development program by preparing the eight-
year MMDP, based on lessons learned from working in Mozambique and in other countries.
Quality at entry was satisfactory.

68.     In implementation support, the Bank played a critical role in helping the CCM overcome
significant capacity constraints and proceed with implementation. Bank implementation support
was instrumental in keeping implementation on track; the project closed with only a one-year
delay and all funds were utilized. Implementation support missions regularly reviewed
compliance with fiduciary, environmental, and social safeguards. The Bank maintained a close
dialogue with CCM policy makers and technical staff, and with GIZ throughout implementation.

                                               22
The Bank responded proactively and effectively to find solutions to challenges. A rating of
satisfactory for ensuring quality at entry and a rating of highly satisfactory for supervision justify
an overall rating of satisfactory for Bank performance.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

69.     The government’s performance in implementation was satisfactory. The central
government, particularly the Ministry of Finance, The Ministry of Planning and Development,
the Ministry of State Administration, and the Ministry of Environmental Coordination played
important roles in helping to create the capacity of the CCM for municipal service delivery. For
example, the ministry of finance consistently provided its counterpart funds for the MMDP on
time, facilitating smooth implementation. The Ministry of Environmental Coordination quickly
responded to requests its review of potential environmental impacts of infrastructure subprojects.
And the Council of Ministers on December 27, 2010 approved a decree allowing revaluation of
urban properties, which substantially increases the revenue potential for the CCM.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

70.     The performance of the CCM was satisfactory. The CCM quickly complied with all the
conditions of effective presented in the project appraisal document for the MMDP I. It
established a strong team in its Office of Strategic and Institutional Development to coordinate
overall project implementation, and appointed as its head a highly-qualified person with
experience in managing diverse teams. It also established a procurement department staffed with
qualified specialists and a financial management system capable of producing satisfactory
financial monitoring reports. It encouraged staff of the entire CCM to participate in all aspects
of project implementation, including the capacity building activities. It participated fully in
designing and implementing the CCM restructuring plan and the improvements in human
resources management. It ensured that the project complied fully with environmental and social
safeguards. It consistently provided in counterpart funds on time and in the agreed amounts.
And it complied with all the legal covenants, although with some delays in the early years.
Finally, it adopted a scheme to pay bonuses to high-performing staff, thereby overcoming a key
factor discouraging people from working for government institutions, low salaries. However, the
CCM did not manage to retain qualified procurement staff, leading to delays at various times
during implementation. Financial management remained a weakness throughout, in part because
of the inability of the CCM to advance with implementation of the IFMIS.

71.    The Office of Strategic and Institutional Development, which led project implementation,
performed capably throughout implementation. It responded to weaknesses in staff capacity at
the CCM by recruiting advisors with expertise in a large range of areas. The Office of Strategic
and Institutional Development prepared quarterly project progress reports on time, which

                                                 23
consistently reported on implementation of activities progress towards outcomes. It used them
effectively to motivate staff and to focus attention of policy makers on key issues.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

72.     The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance
consistently provided its agreed counterpart funds. Other ministries and government entities
played supportive roles.

73.     The CCM performed adequately. The Office of Strategic and Institutional Development
effectively provided overall leadership in project management, and ensured that the project
remained on track to meet its objectives, with only minor delays. Ratings of satisfactory for both
borrower and for implementing agency performance justify a rating of satisfactory for overall
borrower performance.

6.        Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

         Basing the design of the project on strong analytical work and on consultation with
          stakeholders will help ensure that the design addresses the key issues. Prior to
          preparing the MMDP, the Bank supported studies on all areas of the functioning of the
          CCM. These included studies on functions and human resources, revenues and revenue
          potential, public private partnerships, information and communications technology, and
          anti-corruption measures, and others. The findings and recommendations of the studies
          provided a strong evidence base to guide the project design. Consultations with a wide
          range of stakeholders on key issues and solution provided further input to the design and
          helped to create ownership for the significant institutional changes to come.

         Combining institutional strengthening with improved delivery of services. While the
          CCM was undergoing a restructuring to align staff with functions, improving its
          governance, and strengthening fiduciary management, it was also addressing service
          delivery constraints, primarily in the areas of solid waste management, urban planning,
          and roads. Combining institutional reforms with service delivery helps in building the
          capacity of the implementing agency to carry out its mandate through learning by doing.
          It also helps to facilitate engagement with the citizens who are benefiting from the
          improved services.

         Building effective institutions requires a long-term commitment. Organizational
          change is a slow and difficult process that often stalls due to resistance of those who fear
          they may be made worse off due to the changes or due simply to inertia. Convincing
          people that change is in their interests requires solid analysis, considerable consultation
          and willingness to address concerns, investments to upgrade skills of existing staff to give
          them a place in the new organization, and determined leadership. Reflecting this lesson,
          the MMDP is providing long-term support for institutional change through the eight-year
          adaptable program loan.

                                                  24
   Mainstreaming project management helps to build and sustain capacity of
    government entities. Although relying on a weak government entity with no previous
    experience in executing a Bank-financed project can be risky, it also powerfully assists in
    building sustainable capacity of the entity through learning by doing. By drawing on the
    CCM’s departments responsible for human resources management, financial
    management, engineering, strategic and urban planning, and others, each of which was
    bolstered by one or more external experts and specialized training, the project helped to
    develop key skills of the CCM staff. The MMDP II is now benefiting from CCM’s much
    stronger capacity as it scales up support for infrastructure and service delivery.
    Mainstreaming project implementation within government structures is considered good
    practice in development.

   Skilled external experts who support the government entity with advice speeds the
    process of capacity building and help to smooth implementation. The CCM benefited
    from the assistance of at least 10 advisors during project implementation, each with skills
    in different areas. They facilitated learning in the organization by offering advice and on-
    the-job assistance. They also maintained a focus on implementation, helping to resolve
    issues that threatened to block forward movement.

   Design of financial management information systems must be appropriate for the
    institutional context to succeed. Both governments and external advisors often propose
    the most modern system for managing financial and other information. However, such
    systems often do not function where organizational, technical, and human capacity is
    weak. Implementation of such systems also sometimes encounters resistance from
    people who benefit from the traditional way of doing things. Experience suggests that
    simplified phased outputs and a longer implementation timeline may help in
    implementing a computerized financial management information system. Leadership at
    the highest levels of government is also essential.

   Innovative approaches help in providing solid waste management services in poor
    neighborhoods. Many poor neighborhoods in cities around the world are marred by
    uncollected trash. Private trash services concentrate on rich neighborhoods whose
    residents are willing to pay, while municipal services often serve only the city core, if
    they work at all. Following the severe flooding in Mozambique in 2000, a French
    nongovernmental organization helped to mobilize poor neighborhoods to collect trash.
    The approach involved organizing microenterprises for trash collection that would hire
    staff from the same neighborhoods in which they would work. The municipal
    government would initially pay for the services to demonstrate their value to residents,
    but would phase in user charges over time. The MMDP I scaled up this successful
    approach and will expand services further under the MMDP II.

   The process of carrying out citizen report cards generates benefits beyond the data
    they collect. Report cards are often seen as an unreliable source of information on
    quality of services, because they ask people their opinion of services rather than report on
    objective measures of service delivery. Thus, people may say services are declining

                                            25
       when they are actually improving, because their expectations have risen. In Maputo,
       regardless of their findings, the report card surveys have proven to be a valuable tool in
       furthering the dialogue between service providers and citizens. Each year, staff of the
       CCM meet with Maputo residents in public forums and must address questions raised by
       participants. This has proven critical in motivating CCM staff to focus on service
       delivery, and appears to be changing the balance of power between citizens and
       municipal government.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies:

See annex 6.

(b)    Cofinanciers: None.

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders: None.




                                                26
                                   Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

 (a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate      Actual /Latest Estimate          Percentage of Appraisal
          Components
                                      (US$ million)             (US$ million)
A: Institutional development                 8.0                      10.8                               135%
B: Municipal finance                         4.7                       5.3                               113%
C: Improved service delivery                26.3                     25.0                                 95%
             Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                       1.4
Price Contingencies                          1.4
             Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility
                                             1.2
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
       Total Financing Required              43                      41.1                                 96%

 (b)       Financing

                                                     Appraisal               Actual/Latest
                                                                                                     Percentage of
Source of Funds        Type of Financing             Estimate                  Estimate
                                                                                                      Appraisal
                                                   (US$ million)             (US$ million)
Government                                              13                      11.68                     90%
IDA                                                     30                      29.42                     98%
PPIAF grant           World Bank-                      0.29                      0.08                     28%
                      administered trust
                      fund




                                                         27
                             Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Component A: Institutional reform and municipal governance

Subcomponent 1: Institutional reform and strengthening

      A restructuring plan for all organizational units was defined and implemented (modeling
       processes, job description manual, staff table, competencies profile assessment, and
       redeployment plan defined and implemented). All 27 organizational units of the CCM
       were restructured and staffed with people with the appropriate skills. Key departments
       that were restructured included the departments of finance, human resources
       management, and procurement.

      A strategic and operational planning methodology was defined and implemented.

      A human resources management plan (recruitment of new qualified technicians and
       integrated in organizational units) was developed and implementation started.
       Implementation is continuing under MMDP II.

      An integrated human resources management system was defined (strategy, global, and
       specific policies were defined and a manual of procedures was prepared).

      A study on simplification of process processes was completed, and implementation of its
       recommendations commenced.

      District-level authorities received capacity building support to plan and manage small-
       scale infrastructure and urban services.

      An HIV/AIDS strategy, a workplace policy, and an action plan were developed.
       Implementation of activities has been continuous.

      Annual training courses were offered in leadership, project management, and various
       other areas of municipal relevance.

      A strategic plan for information systems was defined and implementation started.

Subcomponent 2: Improved municipal governance

      A draft communication strategy was prepared. However, it requires more practical
       recommendations before it can be fully implemented (planned for MMDP II).

      An anticorruption strategy was prepared and many of its recommendations implemented.

      A deconcentration plan for municipal districts was defined and implemented.



                                              28
     A public private partnership strategy was prepared. Its recommendations provide for the
      installation for the first time of a public private partnership unit in the municipality, and
      for the legal framework and model for public private partnership that has already
      produced 25 such partnerships.

     Three citizen report card surveys were undertaken and their results widely disseminated
      through newspapers, television, radio, public forums, the internet, and other media.

Component B: Municipal finance

Subcomponent 1: Improved revenue collection

     Improvements in the distribution of property taxes bills and fees for economic activities
      were made. In a first step, a private firm was contracted to distribute property tax bills,
      focusing on the urbanized and richest areas of the city. In a second phase, municipal
      capacity was built to take on the permanent distribution of bills. This required the
      reorganization of the department, creation of field brigades, and investment in training
      and acquisition of goods and equipment (maps of routes, uniforms, vehicles, and the
      like).

     The existing property cadastre more than doubled its number of registries (from 6,000 to
      13,000) by merging a series of databases. At the same time, the cadastre team under the
      supervision of the revenue department completed a field survey, adding 15,000 new
      registries. The process of data cleaning and cadastre expansion will continue during
      MMDP II, which has a strong focus on property tax collection.

     A very important property tax regulation (decree 61/2010) was approved by the Council
      of Ministers to allow for the reassessment of properties, with reference to market values.
      This regulation is of national scope so will bring big benefits to all the 43 municipalities
      in the country.

     Regulations for fees on economic activity were prepared and approved by the Municipal
      Assembly, allowing for more efficient fee calculation and collection.

     Measures to increase revenues from markets—including launching of a market vendor
      cadastre and approval of new regulations by the municipal assembly—were put into
      place.

     Advertising campaigns on fiscal education were carried out in journals, radio, and
      television.

     Extensive training for managers and technicians in municipal revenue management took
      place. A training program was organized and delivered a few times during the
      implementation of the MMDP I. The training included lectures on national legislation, as
      well as practical classes in which the revenue department team elaborated and discussed
      proposals of regulations for municipal taxes and fees.

                                               29
Subcomponent 2: Improved expenditure management

      Design of the IFMIS and implementation of some modules commenced. However, the
       design proved too complex for the CCM. The selected firm did not complete the work
       within the agreed timeline. Options for an alternative system are being assessed under
       MMDP II. The Ministry of Finance is taking the lead in design and implementing the
       system for the CCM.

      A planning and budgeting methodology was revised and approved by the CCM.

      Audits of municipal financial statements were completed for 2008, 2009, and 2010.

      A study proposing approaches to revaluing properties in Maputo was completed.

      An evaluation of municipal assets was conducted.

      A medium-term expenditure framework was developed, which is regularly updated to
       reflect the fiscal position of the municipality.

Component C: Planning and service delivery improvements

Subcomponent 1: Planning and management of urban space

      Urbanization plans for Zimpeto, Magoanine (A, B, and C), Laulane, Ferroviário, 3 de
       Fevereiro, Mahotas, Costa do Sol, and Albazine were completed. Implementation
       commenced, and will continue under MMDP II. The urbanization plans will form the
       basis for the issuing of land use rights to users.

      The urban structure plan was completed. Implementation started and will continue under
       the MMDP II.

      The municipal geographic information system (including aerial photography) and
       associated cadastres were developed. Implementation—including provision of technical
       assistance, training, equipment, and data collection and processing services—
       commenced. Implementation will continue under MMDP II.

      Environmental impact assessments have been prepared for the proposed Michafutene/
       Marracuene cemetery and for the rehabilitation of the Julius Nyerere Avenue.

Subcomponent 2: Infrastructure and service delivery improvements

      The rehabilitation and extension of Avenues Sebastião Marcos Mabote (5.6 kilometers)
       and Nelson Mandela (5.4 kilometers) were completed. These connected the central
       business district of Maputo to expansion areas on the outskirts of the city, which are
       home to poor people resettled from the urban core and to new migrants.


                                             30
     Street lights were installed along Avenues Sebastião Marcos Mabote and Nelson
      Mandela.

     Unpaved roads were regraveled (74 kilometers), improving connectivity in the suburban
      districts of the city.

     Designs for two cemeteries were completed. Construction completed at one. The other
      will be completed under MMDP II.

Subcomponent 3: Solid waste management services

     Solid waste services in the central city and the suburbs improved visibly. Collection
      increased from 250 tons per day to over 650 tons per day. A specific focus was given to
      improving and extending the services in the previously severely under-serviced suburban
      areas. The total number of containers in these areas increased from 35 to 110 by the end
      of MMDP I.

     Primary waste collection was initiated in 25 suburban neighborhoods, using
      microenterprises to provide collection services. This was the first regular municipal
      service provided in these settlements. At least 590 jobs have been created for local
      residents.

     The municipal disposal site was improved. Specifically, the entrance was rehabilitated, a
      weighbridge was installed, and specialized heavy equipment was put into operation.

     Studies were completed to improve the organizational setup and financial sustainability
      of future solid waste services.

     Collection of the waste fee rose from US$900,000 in 2006 to US$3.3 million in 2011.




                                             31
The table below presents the indicators and outputs by component, as presented in the
results framework of the Project Appraisal Document.2

Table 1: Results framework, component level outputs
                                                                  Baseline   Original Target      Actual Value
                                                                   2006          Values           Achieved at
                                                                                                  Completion
                                                                                                  August 2010
    Project outputs from each component
    Component A: Institutional reform and municipal governance
    Average time to process a new request for a         8 months                3 months             28 days
    construction license
    Number of districts to which decentralization of            0                       7                  7
    agreed functions has occurred
    Staff reached by HIV/AIDS awareness programs        0 percent              80 percent          80 percent
    under the project
    Component 2: Municipal finance
    Number of additional taxpayers registered in the      13,000                  18,000              28,000
    universe of property tax payers
    Own revenues/current expenditures                         0.8               At least 1               1.13
    Audit finalized within six months of the end of the Not done                  Annual        Done for 2008,
    financial year and findings made publicly available                                         2009, 2010
    Component C: Planning and service delivery improvements
    Sebastiao Marcos Mabote Avenue rehabilitated        Not done               Completed           Completed
    under the project.
    Number of new cemeteries built under the project            0                      1                  1
    Financial contribution of CCM to solid waste         US$700,000            US$1.8 million     US$2.4 million
    management




2
      For indicators not already reported on in the data sheet.

                                                            32
                                 Annex 3: Economic Analysis

Economic Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)
Efficiency (net present value/economic rate of return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons):

ROADS INVESTMENTS

Efficiency

1.      Efficiency and cost effectiveness of the roads investments were satisfactory. A cost
benefit analysis for the rehabilitation and extension of the Avenida Sebastião Marcos Mabote to
be supported under the MMDP I was carried out as part of project appraisal. This was based on
the assumptions that the investment cost would be US$4.7 million, that 83 percent of traffic
comprised light vehicles and 17 percent was made up of heavy trucks, and that traffic would
grow by 4.1 percent a year. The road was assumed to have an economic life of 15 years and to
require periodic maintenance every seven years. The discount rate was assumed to be 12
percent.

2.      The main benefits of the rehabilitation of the road and associated drainage were due to
reductions in vehicle operating and benefits from generated and diverted traffic. The analysis
showed that under the base case, the investment would generate an economic rate of return of
100 and net present value of US$3.2 million. The actual cost of rehabilitating Avenida Sebastião
Marcos Mabote was very close to that projected in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (see
table 1). However, the average number of vehicles using the road each day has grown by about
5.5 percent per year, which is considerably higher than the 4.1 percent per year projected in the
PAD (table 1).

Table 1: Assumptions of the economic analysis
                                                            Actual         Appraisal estimate
 Avenida Sebastião   Traffic count (annual average           26,235                19,084
 Marcos Mabote       daily traffic)
                     Length (kilometers)                        5.6                     5.6
                     Total investment cost (US$)         $4,748,961             $4,704,000

3.     The larger traffic volume than estimated at appraisal has resulted in higher savings in
vehicle operating costs. Thus, the economic rate of return and present value are higher than
estimated at appraisal. Details are presented in table 2.

Table 2: Cost benefit analysis: Current calculations compared with appraisal estimates
                                                       Current estimates    Appraisal estimate
 Avenida Sebastião      Net present value (US$)           3.6 million          3.2 million
 Marcos Mabote          Economic rate of return           103 percent          100 percent

4.      The original economic analysis referred to a number of nonquantifiable economic
benefits, such as savings in travel time, increases in values of properties that become more

                                                  33
accessible, and reduced costs of repairing roads, structures, and property arising from improved
drainage. The actual nonquantified benefits are likely to be significant. The Avenida Sebastião
Marcos Mabote connects the expansion areas of the city to the downtown. These areas are in the
suburbs of the city, and are being developed to accommodate people resettled from the core city
to make way for infrastructure and to house the increasing numbers of rural to urban migrants.
The extension of the Avenida Sebastião Marcos Mabote has led to much reduced travel times
between the core city and the suburbs, allowing residents to get to their jobs and access services.
It has also led to rising property values, as land is converted from agricultural uses to housing
and businesses. Inclusion of drainage systems has reduced stormwater damage to the road and to
nearby structures. Creation of walkways has led to improved traffic flow and greater comfort for
pedestrians. The story is similar for Avenida Nelson Mandela. This major thoroughfare
connects the core city to outlying areas. Both roads also connect to the highway that connects
Maputo to the northern parts of the country.

Cost effectiveness

5.     The MMDP I supported three roads projects in addition to the rehabilitation of Avenida
Sebastião Marcos Mabote. Table 3 shows the details of all the road projects supported under the
MMDP I.

Table 3: Details of roads projects supported under MMDP I
  Street     Traffic       Length      Lanes     Width      Total cost      Cost per          Nature of work
              count     (kilometers)           sidewalks     (US$)           meter
             (annual                              (m)                    lane/kilometer
             average
              daily
             traffic)
 Avenida      26,235          5.6        4        3         $4,748,961      $212,007      Rehabilitation and
 Sebastião                                                                                extension (paved),
 Marcos                                                                                   including addition
 Mabote                                                                                   of drainage systems
                                                                                          and sidewalks
 Avenida      13,202          5.4        3         4        $3,939,351      $243,170      Rehabilitation and
 Nelson                                                                                   extension (paved),
 Mandela                                                                                  including addition
                                                                                          of drainage systems
                                                                                          and sidewalks
 Unpaved                      40         2         0         $654,793         $8,185      Excavation,
 roads in                                                                                 regraveling,
 municipal                                                                                addition of
 districts                                                                                drainage ditches,
 2, 3, and                                                                                signaling,
 5                                                                                        landscaping.
 Unpaved                      34         2         0         $665,621         $9,789      Excavation,
 roads in                                                                                 regraveling,
 municipal                                                                                addition of
 districts                                                                                drainage ditches,
 Catembe                                                                                  signaling,
                                                                                          landscaping.
 Total                        85                           $10,008,726



                                                    34
6.      The unit costs of rehabilitating and regraveling roads under the MMDP I were well below
the average for African countries, according to a background paper prepared for the World
Bank’s 2008 Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic. These costs are presented in table 4. The
unit costs of rehabilitating the Avenida Sebastião Marcos Mabote were below the average of the
lowest quartile and the rehabilitation of Avenida Nelson Mandela was only slightly higher than
the average. Notably, the unit costs of regraveling were substantially lower than the average of
the lowest quartile for this type of work.

Table 4: Unit costs of road construction and maintenance in Africa, 2008
           Type                 Unit           Lower quartile       Median quartile       Upper quartile
 Rehabilitation (paved)   US$/lane/km              $220,186              $352,613               $505,323
 less than 50 kilometers
 Regraveling              US$/lane/km               $12,835               $15,625                $19,490
Source: World Bank, 2008. “Unit Costs of Infrastructure Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa,? Africa Infrastructure
Country Diagnostic, background paper 11, June.

Solid Waste Management

Cost effectiveness

7.      A cost benefit analysis for the investments in solid waste management was carried for the
appraisal of the MMDP I. This calculated the internal rate of return to be 20 percent and the net
present value of the cash flow at a discount rate of 12 percent to be US$650,000. Unfortunately,
data are not available to permit an update of the estimates from the original economic analysis.

8.      However, a comparison of the costs of delivering solid waste services in Maputo with
those in other medium-size cities in developing indicates that costs in Maputo are well within the
norms. See table 5 for details.

Table 5: Average per capita and per ton costs of solid waste services in Maputo compared
with medium size cities in developing countries (US$m)
                                       Cost per capita per year (US$)         Cost per ton (US$)
 Maputo 2010                                                   3.67                               20
 Medium-size cities 2006*                                 3.33–4.00                     17.78–26.67
Source: Shantha R. Parthan, Mark W. Milke, David C. Wilson, and John H. Cocks. 2011. “Cost Function Analysis
for Solid Waste Management: A Developing Country Experience.? In Waste Management and Research, November
10, 2011.




                                                     35
       Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)       Task Team members

            Names                               Title               Unit   Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending

Kate Kuper                  Senior Urban Specialist                AFTUW   TTL
Natalino Nascimento         Engineer/Technical Consultant          AFTUW   Engineering
Louis Helling               Institutional Development Consultant   AFTUW   Institutional development
Brighton Musungwa           Sr. Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM   Financial management
Joao Tinga                  Financial Management Analyst           AFTFM   Financial management
Mafalda Duarte              Capacity Building and Operations       AFTUW   Capacity building program
                            Consultant
Carolyn Winter              Sr. Social Development Specialist      AFTS1   Citizens report cards
Luz Meza-Bartrina           Sr. Counsel                            LEGAF   Legal advice
Slahhedine Ben-Halima       Sr. Procurement Specialist             AFTPC   Procurement
Antonio Chamuco             Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC   Procurement
Suzanne Morris              Sr. Finance Officer                     CTR    Financial management
Lurdes Malate               Program Assistant                      AFCO2   Program assistance
Salma Chande                Office Assistant                       AFCO2   Program assistance
Uri Raich                   Urban Specialist                       AFTU1   Project design
Ali Alwahti                 Urban Specialist                       AFTU1   Project design
Rildo Santos                Program Assistant                      AFTU1   Program assistance
Roberto Santoro             Municipal Finance Consultant           AFTUW   Municipal finance
Rafael Saute                Communications Specialist               EXT    Communications
Serigne Omar Fye            Sr. Environmental Specialist           AFTS1   Safeguards
Diep Nguyen Van-Houtte      M&E Specialist                         AFTQK   M&E design
Anne Louise Grinsted        Junior Professional Officer            AFCO2   Project design
Supervision / ICR

Ali Alwahti                 Urban Specialist                       LCSUW   Project implementation
Uri Raich                   Senior Urban Specialist                AFTUW   TTL
Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo   Procurement Analyst                    AFTUW   Procurement
António L. Chamuço          Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC   Procurement
Maria Isabel Nhassengo-     Procurement Assistant                  AFCS2   Procurement

                                                         36
Massingue
Amós Martinho Malate           Procurement Analyst                         AFTPC       Procurement
Nilsa Ricardina João Comé      Team Assistant                              AFCS2       Program assistance
Daryoush Kianpour              Senior Information Technology Specialist    MNSPS       IFMIS
José N. Nascimento             Consultant                                  AFTUW       Engineering
Louis Helling                  Consultant                                  AFTUW       Institutional development
Cary Anne Cadman               Senior Forestry Specialist                  AFTSG       Safeguards
Kristine Schwebach             Operations Analyst                          AFTCS       Operations support
Jutta Ursula Kern              Sr. Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist    AFTDE       M&E implementation
Elvis Teodoro Bernado          Financial Management Analyst                AFTFM       Financial management
Langa
Arlete Quitéria Comissário     Program Assistant                           AFCS2       Program assistance
Kate Kuper                     Senior Urban Specialist                     AFTUW       TTL
Wendy Ayres                    Senior Economist (Consultant)               AFTUW       ICR primary author


(b)     Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)


                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Staff Weeks                    US$ Thousands
                                                                              (including travel and consultant
                                                                                            costs)
   Lending
                Fiscal 2007                                 103.82                           463,259.78

                              TOTAL:                                                         463,259.78
   Supervision/ICR
             Fiscal 2007                                      2.43                             7,358.37
             Fiscal 2008                                     82.05                           311,258.04
             Fiscal 2009                                     73.71                           286,391.93
             Fiscal 2010                                     28.40                           235,741.36
             Fiscal 2011                                     21.73                            82,032.11
             Fiscal 2012                                      0.60                             7,731.88
                              TOTAL                                                          930,513.69




                                                            37
                               Annex 5: Citizens Report Cards

1.      The first Maputo municipal citizen report card was introduced in 2005 as a contribution
to project formulation for MMDP Phase I. Previously, there had been no systematic assessment
of the quality and coverage of municipal services, nor of citizen priorities and satisfaction with
respect to these services. The results of this first CCM were well received by municipal
authorities and were employed as a reference in project design consultations with key public
sector, private sector, and civil society stakeholders. The citizen’s report card assisted in
identification of the main priorities for the municipality’s service improvement plans, reflected in
investment priorities for IDA credit resources, as well as a way of measuring progress in the
satisfaction of citizen priorities.

2.      From the outset, the CCM and IDA teams agreed on the usefulness of this tool and
committed to its regular (annual) application as a support to structured communication channel
between citizens and authorities and to monitoring citizen perceptions of project outcomes.
Specifically, there was agreement on the following objectives and strengths of the citizen’s
report card:

      Establish a system of open and effective communication between the CCM and the
       citizens in the all the municipal districts of the city (as the citizens report card is
       representative at the district level).
      Identify the services that residents consider priority in each district to guide the priorities
       in the provision of services by the CCM.
      Produce information on the provision and quality of services in the districts.
      Assist in monitoring and evaluating the efficiency of delivery of such services
      Increase the accountability of service providers before the CCM and citizens.
      Strengthening the voice of the citizen and community participation.

3.      As an illustrative example, figure 1 presents the graphic synthesis of the 2005 (baseline)
citizens report card assessment of quality and importance of urban services in the form they were
frequently presented and discussed by municipal authorities with both internal and external
stakeholders.




                                                 38
Figure 1: Synthesis of the findings from the 2005 Citizen’s Report Card




4.      Based on its acceptance during project formulation, the citizen’s report card methodology
was employed throughout implementation: public dissemination of its results was used as a key
performance indicator for governance improvement activities supported under the MMDP I. The
regular use of this governance tool has allowed the management of CCM to permanently monitor
service delivery and citizen satisfaction (or not) with municipal performance. Results are
broadly disseminated both at the time of their release, including a formal presentation to the
municipal assembly, and subsequently in neighborhood meetings and as a basis for civil society
consultations. Specifically, the Mayor has adopted this tool as a thermometer of his own
popularity and has used the results for strategic planning.

5.       The CCM has continued to be employed both as a strategic planning tool and as a
monitoring tool for citizen satisfaction with the provision of urban services. Further refinements
of the methodology have introduced citizen assessments of service quality which complement
satisfaction measures with descriptive characterization of frequency and coverage of service
provision. The citizen’s report card has also increasingly collected and presented data at
submunicipal level to assist in the geographical targeting of service improvement. As an
illustration, matrix 1 presents differentiated priorities for each of Maputo’s seven municipal
districts from the 2010 citizen’s report card.




                                               39
     Matrix 1: Service priorities by municipal district
                                                                       KaMubuk-
       KaMpfumu        Nhlamankulu     KaMaxakeni      KaMavota                        KaTembe         KaNyaka
                                                                       wana
       Solid waste     Neighborhood    Water           Solid waste     Solid waste     Water           Electricity
 1     collection      security        provision       collection      collection      provision       provision
       Accessibility   Accessibility   Neighborhood    Water           Neighborhood    Accessibility   Water
 2                                     security        provision       cleanliness                     provision
       Neighborhood    Water           Health          Neighborhood    Water           Public          Public
 3     cleanliness     Provision                       security        provision       transport       transport
       Traffic         Solid waste     Solid waste     Accessibility   Accessibility   Electricity     Accessibility
 4     Management      collection      collection                                      provision
       Drainage        Neighborhood    Accessibility   Health          Electricity     Health          Neighborhood
 5                     cleanliness                                     provision                       cleanliness
       Health          Drainage        Schools         Public          Neighborhood    Solid waste     Solid waste
 6                                                     transport       security        collection      collection
       Markets         Health          Neighborhood    Electricity     Public          Agriculture     Markets
 7                                     cleanliness     provision       transport
       Public          Drainage        Electricity     Schools         Health          Schools         Agriculture
 8     transport                       provision
       Parks           Markets         Public          Neighborhood    Schools         Neighborhood    Health
 9                                     transport       Cleanliness                     cleanliness
       Municipal       Public          Markets         Markets         Fire fighting   Markets         Schools
10     police          transport

Source: 2010 Maputo citizens report card.

6.      In conclusion, the Maputo municipal citizen’s report card has been broadly recognized as
a useful basis for increasing the responsiveness of municipal policies, plans, and actions by
aligning them with citizen concerns and preferences and for providing an objective reference
underpinning dialogue and accountability between municipal officials and civil society. Because
of this recognition, during project formulation it was agreed Maputo’s citizens report card will
continue to play a significant role in municipal planning, monitoring, and governance for MMDP
Phase II.

7.     For the purposes of the project, the findings of the citizen’s report cards substitute for
information that may have been collected from a project-specific beneficiary survey.




                                                         40
         Annex 6: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.     Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation, and operational
       experience

1.1 Global Objective

1.       The program development objective is “Strengthen the Maputo City Council’s
institutional and financial capacity to support achievement of long-term service delivery goals,
and to implement selected priority investments?.

2.      The project has contributed decisively to create the basis for organizational and
management tools on which the CCM may base its governance objectives in the medium and
long terms. The project accomplished that through the creation or improvement of tools for
strategic, operational, and urban planning; human resource management; information systems;
communication; transparent and participatory governance. It sought to adjust the organizational
structure to fit the Vision, Mission and Strategic Objectives of CCM. Also, it supported the
financial pillars for financial management and revenue generation for the present and future
sustainability of the organization. In addition, the project began to address the main problems of
service provision, in particular the quality of roads and collection of municipal solid waste.

1.2 Project Rationale

3.     The project was designed combining a long-term view, of provision of municipal services
with quality and comprehensiveness (Component C), with the short and medium-term view of
building a sustainable institution and revenue generation capacity (Component A and B) to
support investment in municipal services and ensure their maintenance of quality.

4.     The project was designed based on the following conceptual logic:
         a. The Vision: Maputo, as a prosperous, attractive, clean, secure, and united city

          b. The Mission: Enhance the coverage and quality of municipal services offered to
             residents of Maputo by strengthening institutional and financial capacity

          c. Program components to ensure the operational implementation of the Mission:
             Components A and B to ensure human resources, management capacity and
             financial resources for governance and service delivery to citizens; and component
             C focused on planning and Service Delivery Improvements.

1.3 Design

5.      The design of the project was a participatory process of governance and an opportunity
for organizational learning for the leadership and staff of CCM for the following reasons:

                                               41
             The development of a Logical Framework (survey of problems and identification
              of priorities) based on the collection of citizens' expectations during the election
              campaign, in consultative sessions with partners from the private and public
              sectors and civil society;
             Different versions of the Logical Framework, developed with support from the
              IDA team, were presented and validated by the private and public sector partners,
              and civil society;
             The development of the Logical Framework was the work of Councilors,
              Directors and Technicians of CCM (about 90 people) with the support of IDA.

6.      Project was designed to ensure the full integration of local planning instruments (i.e.
objectives, outputs and activities) into CCM work flow and routines, also in alignment with the
activities and results identified in CCM’s Election Manifesto and Plan of Activities.

7.      The mechanisms for project coordination and implementation were fully integrated to the
existing management structures. The management and implementation of the project was under
the direct responsibility of the mayor, Councilors, Directors and Staff of the CCM.

1.4 Implementation and the outputs

8.    The global and specific objectives of the project were achieved almost entirely. Of the
seven Performance Indicators Triggers, 6 were met or exceeded our targets for Phase 1 of
PROMAPUTO, namely:
       -% of nominal increase of CCM revenues (Component B)
       - Additional km unpaved roads in good condition for each year (component C2)
       - Tons of Solid Waste collected and deposited in the waste dump (component C3)
       - Realization and Dissemination of Citizen Report Cards (Component A)
       -% of units with staff table defined and current employees redeployed (Component A)
       - Ratio of own revenue / expenses (Component B)

9.     The indicator on design and implementation of SIGEF was not achieved in its totality.

10.    We believe that the implementation of Phase 1 of PROMAPUTO was positive, even
without reaching the "Trigger" of SIGEF, based on the following facts:
        - Level of Performance and Impact achieved internal and external
        - Level of Budget Execution
        - Establishing mechanisms and management systems with the potential to enhance the
          performance and sustainability for the future of the CCM
        - Level of cooperation and professionalism of the CCM and IDA teams

2.     Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

11.    Taking into account the specific Objectives of each component of the project, we do the
following assessment:


                                               42
12.     Component A on institutional development and municipal governance aims at:
rationalizing the municipality’s internal processes for service delivery; improving the
performance of the municipality’s functional units; and improving governance.

13.   We believe that the overall objective of the component was achieved in a satisfactory
way based on the evaluation of the main results planned and achieved:

   Results                                          Assessment
   Strategic and operational planning               Satisfactory
   methodology
   Restructuring Plan for all Organizational        Satisfactory
   Units defined and implemented (Modeling
   Processes, Job Description Manual, Staff
   Table, Competencies Profile Assessment and
   Redeployment Plan)
   Annual Citizens Report Card implemented          Satisfactory
   and results
   Integrated Human Resources Management
   System defined (Strategy, Global and
                                                    Satisfactory
   Specific Policies defined and Manual of
   Procedures)
   Human Resources Reinforcement Plan               Satisfactory
   (recruitment of new qualified technicians and
   integrated in Organizational Units)
   Annual Training Plans                            Satisfactory
   Deconcentration Plan for Municipal Districts     Satisfactory
   HIV/AIDS                                         Satisfactory
   Information and communications technology        Moderately satisfactory
   Communication                                    Moderately satisfactory
   Public Sector Relations                          Moderately satisfactory
   Anti-Corruption                                  Moderately satisfactory
   Public Private Partnerships Program              Satisfactory

14.    Component B on municipal finance aims at: improve the municipal public finance
systems by increasing its own-source revenues (local taxes and fees) and enhancing the budget
planning, execution, and control functions.

15.     We believe that the overall objective of the component was achieved in a moderately
satisfactory way based on the evaluation of the main results planned and achieved:

 Results                                                           Assessment
 Number of additional tax payers registered in tax cadastre        Moderately satisfactory
 (property taxes and business services taxes)
 Cadastre team                                                     Moderately satisfactory
 Database of property taxes                                        Moderately satisfactory
 IPRA regulation                                                   Satisfactory

                                               43
 TAE regulation                                                       Satisfactory
 Collection of Fees                                                   Moderately satisfactory
 IFMIS design and implementation                                      Not satisfactory
 Planning and Budgeting Improvements                                  Moderately satisfactory
 Mid Term Expenditure Framework (CFMP)                                Satisfactory
 Selection of auditor for 2008 and 2009 financial years (FY)          Satisfactory
 Consulting service for Evaluation of municipal real estate
                                                                      Satisfactory
 patrimonial

16.      Component C on planning, infrastructure rehabilitation and service delivery
improvements aims at: support urban planning and target investments to improve and rehabilitate
critical urban services, including roads and drainage, solid waste management, a cemetery and
street lighting.

17.    We believe that the overall objective of the component was achieved in a satisfactory
way, based on the evaluation of the main results planned and achieved:

  Results                                              Assessment
  Baixa Marginal Urbanization Plan                     Not satisfactory (postponed for ProMaputo II)
  Zimpeto Urbanization Plan                            Satisfactory
  Magoanine A, B and C Urbanization Plan               Satisfactory
  Urbanization Plan for Laulane, Ferroviário, 3
                                                       Satisfactory
  de Fevereiro, Mahotas
  Urbanization Plan for Costa do Sol                   Satisfactory
  Albazine Urbanization Plan                           Satisfactory
  Urban Structure Plan                                 Satisfactory
  Municipal Geographic Information System:             Satisfactory
  System Development
  Municipal Geographic Information System:             Satisfactory
  Aerial Photography
  Municipal Geographic Information System:             Satisfactory
  Hardware and software
  Environmental Impact Assessment for                  Satisfactory
  Michafutene/ Marracuene Cemetery
  Environmental Impact Assessment for Julius           Satisfactory
  Nyerere Av.
  Av Sebastiao Mabote rehabilitation                   Satisfactory
  Increase street light network                        Satisfactory
  Rehabilitation of paved and unpaved roads            Satisfactory
  Cemetery Construction                                Moderately satisfactory
  Solid waste collection in urban areas                Satisfactory
  Solid waste collection in suburban areas and         Satisfactory
  markets
  Primary Waste collection                             Satisfactory
  Operation of Municipal Dump Site Hulene              Moderately satisfactory

                                                  44
3.     Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance

18.   We introduce our self-assessment for the various components of coordination and
implementation of the project:

3.1 Coordination Model

3.1.1 Positive Aspects:
       Result: Level of results achieved (impact, disbursements) when compared with other
       programs
       Office of Strategic and Institutional Development:
                • Office of Strategic and Institutional Development with monitoring tools
                • Good leadership by the CCM
                • Monthly meetings between Office of Strategic and Institutional Development
               and IDA team
       Monitoring:
                • Weekly meetings to analyze the implementation process with the participation
               of heads of components
        Mainstream in the objectives and structure of the CCM
                • Convergence of the instruments of governance and priorities with the objectives
               of CCM
               • Insertion of the Project Implementation Unit of the CCM in the organizational
               structure and leadership of the Mayor.

3.1.2 Aspects to be improved:
       Information Flow
                • Information flow between various departments and Office of Strategic and
               Institutional Development can be more expedite
                • Management and coordination within the CCM must be improved
        Unclear roles and priorities
                • Communication CCM / World Bank was not always good
                • The role of the Office of Strategic and Institutional Development was not
               always respected by the executive areas
                • Coordination of components: planning and monitoring of each component head
               could be improved
                • Lack of prioritization
        Weak capacity
                • Office of Strategic and Institutional Development without national staff and
               implementing and coordinating assignments simultaneously
               • Need to decrease the operational role of Office of Strategic and Institutional
               Development and increase the coordination and facilitation role

3.2. Financial Management

3.2.1 Positive Aspects:
       • Ensuring resources facilitates the implementation
       • Model allows secure payments
                                               45
       • Commitment met in relation to new technical and bonus payments
       • Introduction of management philosophy that combines the planning and budget results

3.2.2 Aspects to be improved:
       Result:
                 • Late payment of invoices
        Poor Information Flow
                • The sectors must improve their information on budget execution
        Unclear roles
                • Several commands in financial management
        Lack of knowledge of procedures
                • Problems resulting from lack of knowledge of the rules and procedures of
               financial management and in particular of IDA rules and regulations;
               • Lack of flexibility or redistribution of the work redesign activities by problems
               in the budgets
               • Management oriented to procedures not to results

3.3. Procurement

3.3.1 Positive Aspects:
       • Identified the problem of inefficiency and implementation process with the participation
       of heads of components
        • Creation of the Department of Procurement. Streamlined procurement unit to deal with
       IDA and non-IDA transactions
        • Of the 189 bids, almost all were performed.

3.3.2 Aspects to be improved:
       Result
        • Delay in issuing calls for tender
        • Delay in response to procurement processes
        Procedures and unclear priorities
        • Ambiguity of procurement procedures to be used in acquisitions of the Program and
       other acquisitions in the CCM (Need to improve harmonization)
        • Lack of domain rules of the World Bank by the technical, administrative and juries.
        • Stiffness in the procurement processes
        Poor communication
        • Lack of regular and rapid communication between the Purchasing Department, and
       other Departments, and Office of Strategic and Institutional Development
        Weak capacity and discontinuity of training
        • Many activities are delayed for lack of skilled personnel in the field
        • Moving systematic employee of the Department of Procurement (high turnover)
        • Continuous loss of key procurement personnel due to the limited Mozambican market.




                                               46
3.4. Reporting

3.4.1 Positive Aspects:
       Result:
        • Financial Monitoring Reports clear and timely
        • Monitoring good fast and accurate
        • Achievement of agreed actions and timeliness of reports

        Role of Office of Strategic and Institutional Development
        • Office of Strategic and Institutional Development as systematizing information and
       responsible for preparing the final quarterly and annual report

3.4.2 Aspects to be improved:
           Great demand by IDA: Level of IDA's requirement for the reporting (Financial
               Monitoring Reports) incompatible with the learning time of the CCM (since the
               responsibilities are integrated into existing structures)

3.5. Operations Manual

3.5.1 Positive Aspects:
       • Existence of an operations manual to guide the implementation
       • In general it was well implemented

3.5.2 Aspects to be improved:
       • Operations Manual requires adjustments for new challenges.

3.6. Technical Assistance Strategy

3.6.1 Positive Aspects:
       Result: The support necessary for the proper performance of the program was guaranteed
       Technical Assistants capable, qualified and available:
                • Technical assistance of good quality
                • Almost permanent availability of Technical Assistance

3.6.2 Aspects to be improved:
       Dependence of Technical Assistants: High dependence of Technical Assistants at the
       beginning of program
       Poor transfer of know-how:
                • Limited transmission of knowledge and know-how
                • Must work more with the respective areas and technicians with CCM.

       Unclear roles of Technical Assistants: Ambiguity regarding the role of technical
       assistance regarding advising vs. execution. This challenge was made more complicated
       because (i) there is an enormous lack on capacitated personnel to execute work, and (ii)
       existing municipal personnel already has full workloads and cannot easily take on new
       demands from the Project.

                                              47
4.     Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co financiers, or of other partners

19.     The Bank has played fundamental role to keep the project on track as well as to achieve
the main goal. The Bank missions has maintain close contact and dialogue with giving rapid and
positive response for the problems and questions related to the implementation and management
of the project.

20.     During the project implementation the Bank mission was made regular visit to the project
included field mission to supervise and monitor the implementation and discuss the progress and
strategy related to the project. Supervision regularly reviewed compliance with fiduciary,
environmental, and other safeguards. The Bank maintained a close dialogue with Mayor,
councilors, technical staff, and development partners throughout implementation. The stability of
the Team members of IDA between the stage of formulation, negotiation and implementation
allowed a better understanding of the institutional and local levels and a very effective
teamwork.

5.     Assisting the preparation of the Bank’s ICR

21.    The Bank’s ICR was prepared by a consultant that worked in strong collaboration with
the Coordination of the project (Office of Strategic and Institutional Development). The
preparation has included meetings with the managers and technical staff and some field visits on
roads and Solid Waste projects in different municipal districts. In additional, the draft report was
discussed and feedback provided to the Bank authorities.




                                                48
                         Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents

Project documents

Project Concept Note
Project Appraisal Document, December 21, 2006
Mozambique Country Partnership Strategy, April 24, 2007
Financing Agreement, February 9, 2007
Aide memoires
Midterm Review, April 2009
Implementation Support Reports, 12 total from July 2007 to August 2011
Quarterly and annual progress reports prepared by the City Council of Maputo
Other project files: back-to-office reports, financial audits.

Background studies

CESO. 2005. “Analysis of Current Human Resources of Maputo City Council.?
Deloitte & Touche. 2005. “Studies on Maputo City Council Revenues.?
Metier Consultoria and Desenvolvimento. 2006. “City of Maputo, Municipal Scorecard on
Urban Services.?
Faber, Robbert and Manuel Lourenqo Rodrigues. 2006. “Study to determine the revenue
potential of the Municipality of Maputo.?
Noronha, Joao. 2006. “Study on Revenues from Markets and Fairs.?
Brandberg, Bjom. 2005. “Sanitation and Hygiene Study.?
SAL and Caldeira Pty (ltd). 2006. “Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility, Public
Private Partnerships Framework Study.?
Universidad Europea de Madrid Faculty of Architecture. 2006. “Cities Alliance Phase I
Report.?
Consortium Usec, Ibam, Multiservicos. 2006. “Functional Analysis of CCM.?
Cruz, Catarina. 2006. “Enlargement of the Cadastral Base of IPRA Contributors.?
Borges, Alfredo. 2006. “Study on Information Technology System for reform of Municipal
Finances.?
Dray, Madalena. 2006. “Environment and Social Management Framework for ProMaputo.?
Thompson, Gaye. 2006. “Resettlement Policy Framework for ProMaputo.?
Metier Consultoria and Desenvolvimento. 2006. “City of Maputo, Basic Poverty Assessment.?
Buendia, Miguel. 2006. “City of Maputo Anti-Corruption Strategy.?




                                             49
Map of Mozambique




       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33451R1
            30° E                                                                                     35° E                                                                                             40° E
10° S                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10° S


                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                                  La ke                             TA N Z A N I A                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mtwara

                                                                                                  Malawi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mocimboa
          MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                                                                                             Mueda           da Praia




                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                          end
                                                                                                                                                    Lug
                                                                                                      Metangula                                                                   CABO
                                                                                                                                                                        ssa
                                                                                                                                                                           lo    DELGADO                              Pemba
                                                                                                                             NIASSA                                   Me
                                                                                                                 Lichinga
                                                                                                                 Lichinga
                                                                                                                                                                      ue
                                                                                                                                                                                      Montepuez
                                                                  M A LAWI
                                                                    ALAWI                                                                      Marrupa
                                                                                                                                                 q
                                                                                                                       Catur                  bi                                                io
                                                      To
                                                    Chipata                    To
                                                                                                                                           m au
                                                                                                                                          a e                                             Lúr

             ZAMBIA                                                        Lilongwe
                                                                                                                                       oz   t
                                                           Mualadzi
                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                      M Pla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nacala
                      To
                    Petauke
                                                                                                         Mangoche
                                                                                                                                       Cuamba                              NAMPULA
                                                              Furancungo                                                                                          Ribáu
                                                                                                                                                                  Ribáuè
15° S                                                                                               To                                                                                                                       15° S
            To                                                                                    Zomba
          Lusaka                    Fíngo
                                    Fíngoè                                                                                                          Montes Namule           Nampula                                   Moçambique
                                  Lago de        TETE          Zam
                                                                                                                                                    (2,419 m)
                                Cahora Bassa                      be                                                                   Gurué
                                                                                                                                       Guru
                        Zumbo                       Songo           ze                                   To                                                   Alto Molócue
                                                                                                      Blantyre




                                                                                                                                                                                  Ligo
                                                                                  Moatize
                                                                                                                           Milange




                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                      ha
                                                                             Tete                                                                                                                         Angoche
                                                                                                                                      un
                                                                                                                                          ZAMBÉZIA



                                                                                                                                    Lic
                                                                                                                                         go
                                                                         Changara
                                                                                                                                      Mocuba
                                                     To
                                                    Mutoko
                                                                                                                                    Namacurra                          Pebane
                                                                                                  Sena

                                                                                                                       Za
                                                                                                                          mb                   Quelimane
        ZIMBABWE                                                      Catandica                                              ez
                                                                                                                                e

                                                                          Gorogosa                         Inhaminga
                                                    To
                                                   Harare                                SOFALA
                                                                         Chimoio                                                                                      INDIA N O CE AN
                                                                                                 in




                                                To
                                              Masvingo
                                                               MANICA
                                                                                                 a
                                                                                              Pl




                                                  Monte Binga
                                                   (2,438 m)
                                                   (2,436                                                Beira                                                                                                                  20° S
20° S
                                                                                         u e




                                                                             i
                                                   To                    Bu z
                                                 Masvingo
                                                                                     i q




                                                               Espungabera
                                                                                 m b




                                                                                                            Nova Mambone
                                                                         e
                                                                             z a




                                                                      Sav
                                                                                                              Inhassôro
                                      To
                                    Rutenga
                                                                         M o




                                                                                                                  Vilanculos
                                          Chicualacuala                                                                                                           0    50       100    150           200 Kilometers
                                                                  Machaíla
                            To
                          Messina                                          INHAMBANE
                                                                                                                                                                  0         50             100            150 Miles
                                                                            Chigubo
                                        Mapai
                                                           GAZA
                                                                                  Ch a
                                                 Lim
                                                    po




                                                                                                                                                                  M O Z A M B I QUE
                                                                                      ngane
                                                     op




        SOUTH
                                                       o




                                                Massingir                                                          Inhambane
        AFRICA                                                                                Panda

                                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                       Guija                                               Inharrime
                                                                             Chibito                                                                                             PROVINCE CAPITALS

25° S                                     MAPUTO                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                25S
                                      To                                         Xai-Xai
                                    Nelspruit                                                                      This map was produced by                                      RIVERS
                                                                Manhica                                            the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                   World Bank. The boundaries,                                   MAIN ROADS
                                        Moamba                                                                     colors, denominations and
                                              Matela          MAPUTO
                                                                                                                   any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
                                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on
                                      To                                                                           the part of The World Bank
                                    Mbabane                                                                        Group, any judgment on the                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   legal status of any territory,
                       SWAZILAND                               Zitundo
                                                                                                                   or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                   acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   boundaries.
            30° E                                                                                     35° E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 2007
