                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26914

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (CPL-39210 SCL-3921A SCPD-3921S PPFB-P2330 PPFB-P2331)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$165 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                              ARGENTINA

                                                 FOR A

                                  AR-Higher Education Reform Project




                                           November 22, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 22, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                                US$ 1.000 = 2.97 Pesos

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AR            Asignación de Recursos
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CIN           Consejo Interuniversitario Nacional
CMU           Country Management Unit
CONEAU        Comisión Nacional de Evolución y Acreditación Universitaria
FOMEC         Fondo para el Mejoramiento de la Calidad Universitaria
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MERCOSUR      Mercado Comun del Sur
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MEST          Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PRES          Programa de Reforma de la Educación Superior
R&D           Research and Development
RIACES        Red Iberoamericana para la Acreditación de la Calidad de la Educación Superior
RIU           Red de Información Universitaria
SIU           Sistema de Información Universitaria
SPU           Secretaria de Políticas Universitarias

                           Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                        Country Director:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                          Sector Director:      Ana Maria Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Lauritz Holm-Nielsen

                                        ARGENTINA
                            AR-Higher Education Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                 12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                14
9. Partner Comments                                                               15
10. Additional Information                                                        18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Annex 8. Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health Emergency     31
Component

Project ID: P034091                                                  Project Name: AR-Higher Ed. Reform
Team Leader: Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                                 TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR-Higher Ed. Reform                                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-39210; SCL-3921A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3921S;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2330;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2331
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (92%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/16/1994                                     Effective: 02/27/1996                02/27/1996
     Appraisal: 02/28/1995                                         MTR: 03/01/1998                  03/01/1998
      Approval: 07/06/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REP OF ARGENTINA/MINISTRY OF CULTURE & EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Xavier E. Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                        William Experton
ICR Primary Author:             Kristian Thorn; Fernando
                                Montenegro Torres and Jette
                                Samuel Jeppesen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to establish a competitive environment for the improvement of higher education
and to provide, through a transparent funding mechanism, the appropriate incentives for continuous educational
efficiency gains and quality enhancement.

The project supported the implementation of legal, managerial and administrative reforms initiated by the
Argentine Government under the Programa de Reforma de la Educación Superior (PRES). The objectives of
PRES were to: (i) improve the legal and regulatory environment for university management, quality assurance and
the creation of new institutions; (ii) create incentives and provide the basis for improvements in the efficiency,
quality and relevance of university education, and (iii) improve the allocation of resources within universities and
support initiatives to diversify resources.

The project's objective was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Among other things,
the project supported the strategy's call for sustainable economic growth, completion of the administrative reforms,
enhancement of competitiveness and improvements in the quality of human resource investment.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Development Objective was revised once to include a new component C (strengthen disease surveillance and
control activities) in the project. Following the revision, the objectives were: (a) to establish a more competitive
environment for the improvement of higher education; (b) to provide, through a transparent funding mechanism,
the appropriate incentives for continuous educational efficiency gains and quality enhancement; and (c) to
strengthen disease surveillance and control activities for purposes of reducing the acute risk of disease in the
Borrower's territory.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two project components divided into several sub-components:

Project Component A ­ Institutional Strengthening (US$ 21.2 million):
Improvement of the planning and management capacity of SPU (US$2.2 million): This sub-component supported
the (a) training of SPU staff members, study tours for SPU staff members and organization of seminars on
university management; (b) carrying out of studies to improve the management capacity of SPU with respect to,
inter alia, private sector monitoring, filing and accounting systems and legal services; (c) establishment of a
documentation center within SPU, including the rehabilitation of facilities and the acquisition of books and
periodicals on higher education and of office equipment, and (d) rehabilitating of SPU offices, including the
acquisition of office furniture and technology.

Establishment of a National Commission for University Evaluation and Accreditation ­ CONEAU (US$ 10.2
million): Establishment and operation of CONEAU in order to promote the process of self-evaluation by public and
private universities, institutionalize external evaluation of universities and accredit undergraduate programs of
public interest and graduate programs in all disciplines.

Information and University Budget Allocation System (US$ 7.0 million): This sub-component included the (a)
design and operation of a technologically modern management information and statistical data system for SPU to
integrate various existing modules needed for decision-making within SPU and provide adequate data and system
compatibility with the statistical systems of the public universities and (b) development and use of a new objective
method for allocating budgetary resources between public universities, including development of a new
methodology to measure the economic cost of public university operations.

Inter-university Network (US$ 1.8 million): Development and operation by SPU of a network system for
establishing scientific communication and technical data links in accordance with accepted international standards
and exchanging library information between departments and libraries of different public universities.




                                                          - 2 -

Project Component B ­ Fund for Enhancement of Educational Quality ­ FOMEC (US$ 243.8 million). This
component provided incentives to universities, through a competitive and transparent process, to promote: (a) in
basic science and engineering, quality and efficiency improvement at the graduate and undergraduate levels,
through technical assistance for curriculum and program changes, the support of visiting professors, the provision
of scholarships and the financing of laboratories, teaching equipment and libraries and (b) in all disciplines,
quality improvement at the graduate level through the provision of scholarships for teaching staff and students,
support of visiting professors and the renovation of libraries.

3.4 Revised Components:
The loan agreement underwent five amendments, three extensions of the project closing date, one cancellation of
funds and one suspension of disbursements during the implementation cycle. The revisions were for the most part
caused by the economic crisis in Argentina, requiring a higher pari-pasu than originally agreed in order to insure
proper implementation of all components.

Amendments
The following table summarizes each amendment by explaining the change, briefly describing its justification and
specifying the date by which the amendment became effective.

                                         Summary of amendments
 Sub-component              Change                      Justification            Amendment
 CONEAU                     Strengthening of            Ensure CONEAU as a       May 13, 1998
                            CONEAU's                    competent and
                            independence and            independent entity
                            selection of its director
                            through a public
                            process
 FOMEC                      Increase in aggregate       Simplification of        July 20, 1998
                            amount for Goods that       procurement
                            could be procured           procedures
                            under contracts
                            awarded on the basis of
                            competitive bidding
 PIU and CONEAU             Change of pari-pasu in      Increase use of          March 21, 2001
                            regard to Consultants'      independent reviewers
                            Services from 80% to
                            100%
 FOMEC                      Cancellation of US$         Shortfall of counterpart June 14, 2002
                            25.4 million and            funding
                            increase in pari-pasu
                            for Scholarships from
                            60% to 80%
 New Component:             Reallocation of US$         Investment critical to   October 16, 2002
 Strengthen disease         17.6 million to finance     ensuring that key
 surveillance and           public health activities    health programs
 control activities         within Argentina's          protecting the most
 (emergency health)         social emergency            vulnerable groups of
                            program                     the population were not
                                                        disrupted

The first amendment was carried through to ensure the independence of CONEAU. The revised LA underlined
that CONEAU was a decentralized entity and that the director was selected through a public process.

The second amendment simplified the procurement of Goods by increasing the aggregate amount that could be



                                                         - 3 -

procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding.

The third amendment facilitated the use of Consultants' Services in the PIU and CONEAU by changing the
pari-pasu for this category from 80% to 100%. The objective was to increase the use of independent reviewers.

The fourth amendment canceled US$ 25.4 million from the loan and increased the pari-pasu for Scholarships from
60% to 80%. This amendment came in response to Argentina's economic crisis and a shortfall of counterpart
funding.

The fifth amendment was sequenced with the amendment of the following Loan Agreements: Secondary Education
Quality Improvement Project II (3971-AR); Provincial Roads Project (4093-AR), Flood Protection Project
(4117-AR), Provincial Agriculture Development Project (4150-AR) and Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project
(4163-AR). The amendment introduced a health emergency component to the Higher Education Reform project
that contributed to sustain the continuity of key public health programs that were endangered by the
socio-economic crisis that Argentina faced in 2001 and 2002. The public health programs that the Emergency
Project supported were critical in for protection the poor and the most vulnerable populations and included inter
alia vaccines, basic mother and child health, prevention of anemia among pregnant women and children, supplies
for vector control programs and anti retro virals for HIV/AIDS. This amendment included two subcomponents: a)
The strengthening of Disease Control; b) Emergency Drugs and Medical Supplies (Please see Annex 8 for more
detail on this component).

Extensions of the closing date
The closing date of the project was extended three times. The original closing date was June 30, 2001. This date
was first extended one year to June 30, 2002, then to June 30, 2003 and finally to June 30, 2004. The extensions
were justified by the financial crises and delays in the implementation of FOMEC sub-projects, primarily due to
implementation delays and insufficient counterpart funding at the university level. The final extension was directed
at completing activities under the competitive fund and, particularly, to ensure full disbursement of funds under the
new disease control component, which has been introduced to respond to the economic and social emergency.

Cancellation and reallocation
Argentina's Special Structural Adjustment Loan and Special Repurchase Facility Support Loan Projects (P062922)
presented to the Board in November 1998 included a second tranche conditionality that a policy and strategy plan
on higher education financing be developed. This plan would facilitate the use of cost recovery in tertiary education
on an experimental basis and channel savings into lower educational levels and scholarships for needy tertiary
students. It was agreed with the Government to earmark US$ 25.4 million from the Higher Education Reform
Project to support this initiative. The intention was to introduce scholarships for needy students by amending the
loan agreement in order to offset the effects of introducing tuition fees. However, the plan was never executed due
to changes in the political dynamics in the Government and Argentina's economic crisis. In June 2002 a decision
was therefore taken to cancel US$ 25.4 million from the loan.

In response to an urgent need to address Argentina's social and economic crisis, a revision of FOMEC subprojects
was undertaken in early 2002. In light of changes in the purchasing power of loan proceeds and the restructuring
of a number of sub-projects, the Borrower and the Bank decided to reallocate US$ 17.6 million to Argentina's
social emergency program in October 2002. Together with an undisbursed amount for components A and B of US$
5.1 million (cancelled in November 2004), this brought the total IBRD investment in higher education down from
the original US$ 165.0 million to US$ 116.90 million.

Suspension of disbursements
From December 14, 2002 to January 23, 2003 the Bank suspended all disbursments to the Borrower due to
nonpayment of outstanding obligations. This did not cause major delays as the project was continued with
Government funding.

3.5 Quality at Entry:




                                                        - 4 -

The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project fully supported the overall country assistance
strategy approved by the Board in May 1995 and was in line with the Bank's policy paper on higher education The
Lessons of Experience. Furthermore, it was designed to assure the continuation and consolidation of initiatives and
reforms already undertaken by the Argentine Government. The Government had shown a strong and constant
commitment to the reform process, demonstrated by the development of a strategy for reform of the higher
education system (PRES) and, as part of this strategy, the adoption of the 1995 Higher Education Law.

Lessons learned from recent lending operations in Argentina were incorporated in the initial phases of the project
design. From the earliest stage, the preparation process aimed for the creation of a strong institutional base backed
by the borrower's full cooperation and involvement. The sense of project ownership in SPU was strong since the
scope and content of the project fully supported its policy orientations and reflected its initial proposal.
Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance and the Jefatura was strongly behind the need for change and supported
SPU's involvement in project preparation. Considerable attention was paid during preparation to extending this
sense of ownership to universities and the academic community: (a) there was a strong participation of professors
and deans in the various studies and consultative committees; (b) universities had volunteered to participate in the
evaluation process; and (c) each component of the project was agreed with the National Inter-University Council
(CIN), and at appraisal the final project was discussed with university rectors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall the achievement of the project's Development Objectives is considered satisfactory.

4.1.1 Project components A and B

The overall performance of higher education components A and B is considered satisfactory. Results were realized
in establishing an environment for continuous quality improvement, improving internal efficiency, strengthening
system-wide and university management, and upgrading the quality and relevance of tertiary programs. As such,
the project was instrumental in turning legal, managerial and administrative reforms initiated under PRES into
practice (see section 9). The project's objectives were met in the context of macro instability and a surge in tertiary
coverage with negative implications for the availability of resources per university student.

Development Objective (a). Establish a more competitive environment for the improvement of higher education.

Use of merit-based competitive funding mechanism. The project marked a departure from a system where all
resources were allocated based on political negotiation rather than agreed results. Competitive mechanisms with
external peer review are now accepted in the academic community and form part of the university resource
allocation system.

Increased transparency of the university system. Prior to the project, the Ministry of Education and Argentine
universities did not have access to reliable management information. A number of universities had developed their
own information systems, but these were of limited scope and used proprietary software, making it difficult to
compare institutions and compile national data. The development of SIU has given SPU and Argentine universities
access to improved, standardized and updated data on undergraduate education. Information on, inter alia, faculty,
enrollment, academic achievement and use of teaching facilities provides a solid basis for decision-making at the
level of the ministry and the individual university. Improvements to accounting and budget control systems and
strengthened procurement processes have also increased transparency and served as a deterrent to incorrect
practices.

Improved management capacity at the system and university level. At the beginning of the project there was
practically no management capacity at the system-level and university management left much to be desired. The
SPU was only established in the preparation phase and began its operations with support from project preparation
funds. The management capacity, as gauged from key stakeholders, is now strengthened. The impact of the project
is reflected in an improved capacity in SPU and universities to look beyond day-to-day management and engage in



                                                        - 5 -

medium-term strategy and planning. Examples include the formulation of development plans for all accredited
programs and SPU's publication of a strategy for higher education in 2003.

Development Objective (b). Provide, through a transparent funding mechanism, the appropriate incentives for
continuous educational efficiency gains and quality enhancement

Improvements in internal efficiency. Although the first-year dropout rate is alarmingly high (estimated 40% in
2001), evidence suggests that internal efficiency in public universities increased in the 1995-2001 period. Between
1995 and 2001 the annual number of university graduates increased by 43 percent. Assuming an average length of
study of seven years, the graduation rate (graduation relative to intake) improved 25 percent between 1995 and
2001 (from 19.6% to 24.5%). Measured in cost per graduate, public universities featured an increase in efficiency
of 20 percent in the 1995-2001 period (see Annex 3). This progress notwithstanding, significant potential remains
for improving efficiency in the sector.

Development of a culture of quality improvement. Quality standards, self-evaluations and accreditation have
introduced minimum quality standards, provided universities with self-diagnostic tools and made it easier for
students to make informed enrollment choices. The ownership among universities to these new instruments
provides a strong basis for sustaining the process of quality improvement. Also, the integration of more than 1,000
of the foremost academics in Argentina as external peers at different stages of project implementation has not only
benefited the direct evaluation and selection processes. More importantly, their home institutions and the
Argentine system at large now have a sizable number of agents for change.

Higher relevance and improved quality of tertiary instruction. Teachers' skills upgrading, curricula reform and
investments in equipment improved the quality and relevance of university education. Although not specific to
graduates during implementation, the demand among firms with a university background is on the rise in
Argentina. For all tertiary graduates a notable increase can be observed between 1997 and 2002 in the returns to a
higher education degree (see Annex 1). Moreover, the annual surveys of the International Institute for
Management Development indicate an improvement in the relevance and quality of university education. Between
1999 and 2002, the proportion of private sector executives perceiving Argentine university education to meet the
needs of a competitive economy rose from 43 percent to 50 percent.

Despite significant progress under project component A and B, many challenges remain to be addressed in the
higher education sector. Notably, academic persistence is low, more than 90 percent of funding for public
universities is allocated based on historical criteria, and students from poor families graduate university in very low
numbers. Although more equitable than tertiary education in Brazil, Chile and Mexico, persons belonging to the
richest 20 percent of the population comprise 33 percent of the enrolled students in Argentina, whereas the poorest
40 percent make up just 19 percent of the student body.

4.1.2 Project component C

Development Objective (c) to provide the material support needed to avoid the most deleterious impact of the crisis
on the poor and vulnerable populations with actions carried out in the health sector.

This component is considered satisfactory. When the socio-economic crisis that affected Argentina reached its
peak in 2001 ­ 2002, the continuity of important public health programs were at risk. Infant mortality increased
from 16.2 in 2001 to 16.8 in 2002.`

The reallocation of funds from several ongoing projects that the Bank carried out allowed the Ministry of Health to
acquire important resources to continue providing inputs for key public health services and other health care goods
and services provided to women and children from poor households and other vulnerable populations. The
Emergency ­ Health Program implemented through PROMIN and VIGIA has contributed to maintaining a safety
net for the most vulnerable populations and to supporting key monitoring and surveillance public health services
such as those carried out by blood banks that benefit the entire population. Preliminary analysis of recent data




                                                           - 6 -

suggests Argentina has returned to the trend of decreasing infant mortality rates that existed before the crisis
(please see Annex 8 for more detail).

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Project components A and B

An in depth review by independent external consultants was conducted to evaluate actions under CONEAU,
FOMEC and SIU. The reviews included survey data and interviews with rectors and university staff. The results
are on record, and were discussed among stakeholders during an international conference in Buenos Aires in April,
2003.

Project component A ­ Institutional strengthening:

Improvement of the planning and management capacity of SPU. This sub-component is considered satisfactory.
The outcome is the creation of a light and effective administrative structure for higher education. Achievements
include simplification of administrative procedures, capacity building among SPU personnel, the provision of key
equipment, and the creation of an information center for higher education. SPU now has a strong capacity to
analyze sector performance and engage in medium-term planning.

Establishment of a National Commission for University Evaluation and Accreditation. This sub-component is
considered highly satisfactory. CONEAU was set up and became fully operational in the early phases of the
project. Its various functions include: (i) carrying out periodic external evaluations of higher education institutions;
(ii) accrediting undergraduate and graduate programs; (iii) deciding on the relevance of opening new national
university institutions; (iv) and drawing up reports for the recognition of private university institutions.

The fact that CONEAU is today a fully established institution respected for the quality, fairness and transparency
of its procedure is a significant achievement. The external evaluation shows that CONEAU is held in high esteem
not only among high-performing universities but also among institutions turned down or receiving a low score in
the accreditation of their programs or institution as a whole. At the outset there was some concern in the sector
about the implications and utility of establishing a central quality assurance authority in Argentina. Yet, initial
reluctance on the part of universities has now given way to the acceptance of accreditation, self-assessment, and
external evaluation as natural processes in upholding high quality standards.

Since CONEAU began operations in 1996, 36 out of Argentina's 91 universities have been externally evaluated
following institutional self-assessment and 296 doctoral, 649 master's, and 27 under-graduate programs have been
accredited. In addition, 5 public tertiary institutions have been authorized to commence operations and 9 new
private institutions out of 79 applying institutions have been approved. Evidence suggests that these processes have
had a wide impact in the sector. Eight out of ten university rectors report external evaluations and accreditation to
have had a positive effect on the quality of teaching in their institution. Also, quality assurance is deemed by
rectors to have significantly improved internal management and strategies surrounding research in universities.

CONEAU contributed to positioning Argentina in the global market for knowledge and talent through a host of
international activities. CONEAU worked with accreditation agencies in other MERCOSUR member states in
setting up recognition mechanisms for skills based on common career evaluation and accreditation frameworks.
Moreover, CONEAU was among the initiators of the Latin America Network for the Accreditation and Quality of
Higher Education (RIACES), created in 2002.

University Information System (SIU). This sub-component is considered satisfactory. The SIU exceeded expected
targets with the provision of five main software modules:
    l    Accounting and budget (implemented in 83% of public universities)
    l    Staff management (implemented in 58% of public universities)
    l    Student management (implemented in 48% of public universities)




                                                          - 7 -

    l     Student statistics (implemented in 93% of public universities)
    l     Data compilation and reporting system (implemented in 38% of public universities)

All public universities implemented at least one of the five software modules. All modules were merged into a
single platform and are available through the Internet. Close consultation with end-users in the development phase
ensured that modules are easy-to-use and compile data of high relevance.

The outcome of SIU is improved quality of data and increased transparency of the higher education system. It
provides useful management information and represents a solid tool for decision-making. Among surveyed
university rectors rating SIU, 72 percent regard the system as highly useful in the formulation of university policies
and 67 percent perceive SIU to have contributed 'to a high degree' to improved institutional management. In
addition, SIU has paved the way for the modernization of university procedures and structures in areas related to
information generation, processing, and reporting. As an example of its impact, SIU is used by government
institutions such as the National Inter-university Council (CIN) and CONEAU to fulfill their information needs.

Resource Allocation Model for Tertiary Education (AR). This sub-component is considered unsatisfactory. In
1996 a new resource allocation formula with objective criteria was agreed between SPU and CIN. The AR model is
designed to close gaps between real institutional budget need in ideal quality and efficiency conditions and the
actual budget allocated. Drawing on several input criteria, the model is intended to guide the allocation of public
subsidies for higher education based on institutional need rather than historical precedence.

This formula was applied to approximately 1.5 percent of the 1997 and 1998 national budget for higher education.
However, due to a combination of macroeconomic pressure, insufficient push from the Ministry of Finance and
opposition from key stakeholders the use of the formula was discontinued between 1999 and 2001. In 2001, SPU
and CIN agreed on a more refined formula compounding multiple criteria such as enrollment numbers and teacher
qualifications.

In 2002 and 2003, the AR formula comprised 3.1 and 3.9 percent, respectively, of public subsidies for higher
education. This is very low when compared to plans during project preparation to link the AR mechanism to
increases in public subsidies for public universities, with the objective of reaching 50 percent of the budget by
1999. Hence, public universities are still insufficiently held accountable for their results and few incentives exist
for improving internal efficiency.

Inter-university Network. This sub-component is considered satisfactory. In 1997 the RIU became fully
operational in 37 public universities with 750,000 students, 110,000 teachers and 37,500 researchers among its
permanent users. During project implementation it was decided to extend the network to connect campuses with
distant buildings. Also, the capacity of the network was gradually expanded to accommodate increasing data
volumes. Finally, the network was connected to the SIU, making management information accessible through the
Internet to all stakeholders. The RIU gives university faculty and students access to information online and has
enhanced the possibilities for conducting research and participating in international knowledge networks (see
'www.riu.edu.ar').

Project component B ­ Fund for Enhancement of Educational Quality:

The overall performance of the competitive fund is considered satisfactory. With a total of 500 selected
sub-projects out of 1256 proposals, FOMEC reached the objectives of grass-root creativity and increased quality by
concentrating resources to the most competitive and innovative units in the public university system. By choosing
among sub-projects formulated at the decentralized level, FOMEC was successful in generating reforms with high
ownership. Despite initial opposition from universities, FOMEC became an appreciated funding mechanism. This
was primarily due to the transparency of FOMEC's procedures and rigorous decision-making based on reviews by
national and international committees of peers. A high degree of flexibility was ensured by adjusting priorities and
selection criteria in each call for proposals to maximize the impact of sub-projects on quality. While continuing its
funding of selected sub-projects, FOMEC has not made new calls for proposals in recent years due to Argentina's




                                                         - 8 -

economic crisis. Sub-projects supported:

Institutional strengthening. This line strengthened university management by upgrading the skills of
administrative personnel and supporting internal reorganization processes. The external evaluation of FOMEC
concludes that particularly the generation and flow of information and the capacity to evaluate and follow-up were
enhanced. Examples include the National University of Córdoba which created a system to trace the academic
performance of its students, and the National University of the Northeast which designed and undertook a
significant organizational restructuring, rationalizing and improving its internal management information system.

Reorientation of university studies. FOMEC sub-projects were instrumental in updating curricula at the
undergraduate and graduate level according to new professional standards and cutting-edge international research.
In careers such as engineering, biology and informatics, the curricula now have a close match with the needs of the
productive sectors. A significant rise in the return to higher education in Argentina, albeit in part reflecting a skill
biased technology change, suggests an increase in the relevance of tertiary programs (see Annex 1). Moreover,
FOMEC contributed to a considerable expansion of graduate education in Argentina, particularly in the hard
sciences. One example of this growth is the number of graduate programs (MA and PhD level) accredited by
CONEAU. Between 1999 and 2003 accredited graduate programs rose from 172 to 397.

Increase in advanced human capital. FOMEC graduate scholarships made it possible for a considerable number of
young researchers, specifically in science and engineering, to pursue and finalize advanced studies. This, in part, is
reflected in the aforementioned 8 percent rise between 1995 and 2000 in scientists and engineers in R&D .
Furthermore, FOMEC teacher scholarships spurred a rise in university faculty with advanced degrees. In the
Department of Informatics at the University of Buenos Aires, for example, the proportion of faculty with a graduate
degree rose from 16 to 68 percent between 1995 and 2002. Of the 25 scholars with an MA or PhD in the
department in 2002, 11 finalized their degree with a FOMEC scholarship. Finally, FOMEC contributed to
strengthening ties between Argentine scholars and international peers. Between 1997 and 2001, a total of 482
scholarships were granted through FOMEC for Argentine teachers to study overseas. In part, this mobility is
reflected in a 379 percent increase in international co-authored articles involving Argentine researchers between
1996 and 1999 (Annex 1).

Better equipment and facilities. FOMEC provided for laboratories, modernization of classrooms and the
acquisition of equipment, which lead to improvements in the format of instruction. The external evaluation points
out that students now have improved opportunities to engage in experimental science and practice in real-life
circumstances. For graduate students, state-of-the-art equipment opened for additional areas of study and provided
new options for doing thesis work in Argentina.

Library improvement. FOMEC had a significant impact on the quality of university libraries. Particularly, students
and teachers were given access to better facilities and up-to-data collections. At the National University of Rosario,
for example, a new library was established in the faculty of social sciences, e.g. giving users access to online
publications. Sub-projects also provided training of library personnel and supported the development of electronic
catalogues, which gave new possibilities for finding and accessing information. Together, these investments are
perceived by rectors and university staff to have had a positive impact on the quality of teaching and research.

FOMEC sub-projects received a favorable assessment by university rectors and university staff in surveys
conducted by the aforementioned external reviewers. Nine out of ten rectors characterize sub-projects as
satisfactory in terms of goal achievement. Further, 86 percent report that sub-projects had a 'high' or 'very high'
impact on the quality of teaching. Change stimulated by FOMEC is judged to be the least pronounced in
universities with deeply-rooted practices and highest in institutions in the process of defining a clear educational
profile.

Evidence suggests that FOMEC sub-projects had a positive impact on internal efficiency when controlling for
performance differences at entry between supported and non-supported programs. Engineering programs in
national universities with FOMEC funding, for example, featured an increase in the rate of graduation (graduates
relative to student intake) of 41 percent between 1995 and 2001. In contrast, engineering programs without


                                                         - 9 -

FOMEC funding experienced an increase in the rate of graduation of only 1 percent in the same period.
Performing the same analysis in biology shows similar results.

4.2.2 Project component C

The health component is considered satisfactory. The component fulfilled its objectives and reached the goals
originally set: Key public health programs were not disrupted and the poor and vulnerable populations benefited
from these programs despite the economic crisis. Some of the most important outputs are: almost 8 million doses of
anti-tuberculosis vaccine (BCG) have been distributed and administered (4.5 million more than the original goal);
combined anti-retroviral drug treatments were distributed and timely received by 19,500 individuals (2,500 more
than the original goal); a combined total of 1.3 million individuals (pregnant women and children) have benefited
from the iron fortified milk program (please see Annex 8 for more detail).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Although only in part directly attributable to the project, evidence suggests that the project made an important
contribution to improving internal efficiency in the Argentine higher education sector. Between 1995 and 2001
annual university graduation grew 43 percent in Argentina. Measured as cost per student, this constitutes an
improvement in graduate efficiency of about 20 percent. Comparing the cost per student in 1995 to graduation and
spending in 2001, the efficiency gain constitutes an estimated saving of 170 million USD in 2001 (constant 2002
USD). The estimated efficiency gain in 2001 accounts for roughly 1.4 times the total loan amount. Although only
in part directly attributable to the project, evidence suggest that the project made an important contribution to
improving internal efficiency in the Argentine higher education sector (see Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is considered substantial.

4.5.1 Project components A and B

The project's higher education components made a high institutional impact. Particularly, the establishment and
launch of CONEAU was a major development. Enacted by law in 1995, CONEAU became effective under the
project. CONEAU consolidated internal procedures and decisions-making structures which allowed an expedite
handling of external evaluations, accreditations and institutional projects. A key feature was the creation of broadly
composed peer review committees with participation of leading international experts, ensuring fair and impartial
decision-making.

The Secretariat for Higher Education in the Ministry of Culture and Education (SPU) has improved its capacity to
handle day-to-day operations and plan ahead due to investments under component 1 of the project. This allows
SPU to stimulate concerted action in a system with high degrees of autonomy at the university level. E.g. the
establishment of the Comisión Nacional para el Mejoramiento de la Educación Superior in 2001 provides
evidence of an improved capacity for sector management (see section 6).

The project was instrumental in strengthening the management capacity in universities. Owing to modules under
SIU, departments and elected governing boards increasingly base their decisions on updated management
information. This achievement was underscored by administrative restructurings ­ financed by FOMEC
sub-projects ­ improving internal accountability and transparency. Also, the training of key administrative
personnel and the acquisition of equipment enhanced the management of internal resources, study programs and
human resources. These achievements are particularly significant in light of the 1995 enactment of the Higher
Education Law, which provided universities full autonomy of their administration.

The project facilitated the use of a best-practice competitive mechanism in Argentina. FOMEC introduced




                                                       - 10 -

Argentine universities to merit-based resource allocation principles for quality improvement projects. Particularly
the setup of an International Supervision Committee and obligatory peer review of funding proposals were
important innovations in the Argentine university system, with a likely institutional impact beyond the life of the
project.

4.5.2 Project component C

The health component produced an important institutional impact when introduced the purchase of use of generic
drugs and new bidding practices that were more competitive thus lowering prices of important inputs for critical
public health programs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During project implementation Argentina fell into severe economic and social crisis. In 2002 alone GDP fell by
10.9 percent, amounting to a cumulative decline of 20 percent since 1998. Restructuring of expenditures and loss
of revenue led to broad reductions in government spending for social programs, which included budget reductions
in the Ministry of Education.

After a rise in funding for national universities in the mid-1990s, funding fell sharply between 2001 and 2002. The
end outcome was a real decline in university funding of 24 percent between 1995 and 2002. The erosion of the
resource base was an impediment to project implementation since counterpart funding for sub-projects under
FOMEC was provided by universities faced with the need to prioritize under severe budget constraints. In addition,
lack of resources had a negative impact on the scope of performance-based funding owing to the decision to link
the AR formula to increases in the budget for higher education.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Argentina's difficult financial situation caused delays in the transfer of funds from the Government to universities.
In some instances, this prevented universities from meeting their counterpart obligations for sub-projects and, in
turn, was the reason for delays in disbursements of loan proceeds for FOMEC. In addition, the design of the
project included counterpart funding provided by the universities, which was a bottleneck for implementation
during years of crisis and general budget reduction.

The Government was not sufficiently effective in building a consensus on a new objective funding formula for
higher education which was subsequently not ready for implementation early enough to precede the economic
crisis. Initial push from the Ministry of Finance to use performance-based funding was not sustained.
Consequently, the formula was applied to a much smaller share of the budget than originally planned.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The dialogue and cooperation with the SPU was excellent. Despite a challenging context, agreed improvements
were carried out in an effective and timely manner. The PIU was stretched for some time and showed some limits
in staff mainly for procurement and in space for filing. These shortcomings were overcome by providing training to
key personnel and enlarging the physical office space of the PIU.

Universities were slow in implementing sub-projects financed under FOMEC, particularly for the procurement of
goods. The PIU made a significant effort to speed up the implementation by (i) improving its administrative
organization on all documentation for no-objection and disbursement to ensure timely processing; (ii) simplifying
some procedures for disbursement and control; (iii) visiting all universities in order to stimulate implementation;
(iv) providing on a case-by-case basis technical assistance, and (v) organizing seminars for university
implementation units to improve procurement.

In early 2002, the Bank and the SPU agreed to cut under-performing sub-projects under FOMEC and establish
criteria for the revision of sub-projects. As a consequence 10 sub-projects that could not comply with the criteria
for support were discontinued. The PIU also prompted universities to re-formulate all ongoing sub-projects to



                                                         - 11 -

reflect their implementation experience. This lead to an average reduction of 15 percent in sub-project budgets.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was estimated at US$ 273.0 million from which the IBRD loan amounted to US$ 165.0
million. At the original closing date June 30, 2001 loan disbursements were US$ 103.6 million. During
implementation the Bank and the Government agreed ­ due to lack of counterpart funding and slow disbursement
in the initial stages of the project ­ to cancel an amount of US$ 25.4 million from the Loan and reallocate an
amount of US$ 17.6 million to health expenditure under the Argentine social emergency program. Following these
changes, the total IBRD loan amounted to US$ 139.6 million out of which US$ 122.0 million were invested in
higher education.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the activities supported by the project considered likely. The positive sustainability assessment is
based on the following observations:

6.1.1 Project components A and B

·        Quality assurance is now deeply rooted in the Argentine university system. CONEAU is established by
law and will be financed out of the national budget. In addition, CONEAU is widely supported by key stakeholders
as a vehicle for quality improvement.

·        The Government is committed to using competitive funding in the university system. Conceding the fact
that the structure of FOMEC has been discontinued, the principle of merit-based competitive funding will be
applied to other areas of higher education. In the national budget for 2005, approximately US$ 24 million has been
allocated to competitive funding at the program and institutional level. At the program level competitive funding
will be awarded for purposes such as the strengthening of engineering programs and linkages between short- and
long-cycle tertiary institutions. At the institutional level, the Government will pilot performance-based contracts in
a number of institutions. The latter will be a first step towards allocating institutional core funding based on
achieved results rather than historical precedence.

·        The Inter-university Network became self-financed in 2000. The Network is run and maintained by a
foundation created by the participating 37 national universities.

·        Improved management information systems. The collection of data on higher education and institutional
strengthening has improved the diagnostical capacity of Argentine universities. Transparency of remaining
challenges and an improved management capacity provides a strong incentive for continuing reform processes at
the university level.

·        The Government is maintaining the momentum for higher education reform. Notably, the establishment of
the Comisión Nacional para el Mejoramiento de la Educación Superior in 2001 was an important step in
identifying sector issues and building consensus for structural changes. Comprising representatives from the
university community and experts from various sectors, the commission worked on a comprehensive agenda
similar to that of major reform efforts in other countries, such as the Dearing Commission of Great Britain. Among
its recommendations are the establishment of a system of academic credit transfer to facilitate greater mobility of
students and the creation of two-year programs under the responsibilities of provinces to provide greater
opportunities for students living in remote areas. These reforms have potential benefits on both efficiency and
equity. The publication of a strategy for higher education in 2003 by the Ministry of Education builds on
recommendations from the commission and identifies challenges to be addressed in future reforms.

6.1.2 Project component C

The government of Argentina has been planning and implementing a gradual phasing of the health component by



                                                          - 12 -

incorporating key activities and inputs in the national budget of 2004 and 2005; and supporting and encouraging
provinces to incorporate into their budgets inputs for vector control activities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1 Project components A and B

As noted, most of the project activities have been institutionalized as part of the higher education system. Project
impact and the development of the sector will be monitored by the SIU.

The Government was convinced during the final stages of the project that further partnerships and technical
assistance from the Bank would be desirable as an important element in pursuing further reforms in higher
education. To this end, the Government has requested the Bank to commence an Economic Sector Work and
possibly a follow-on project. In particular, the Government proposes to improve the following linkages: (i) between
the tertiary education system and the innovation system/labor market; (ii) internally within the system between
short and long cycle courses, careers, programs and institutions, and (iii) between the secondary and tertiary
system.

6.2.2 Project component C
The government has started to design a phase out project aimed at aligning investments with longer term public
health and financial protection in health goals.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The project's objectives were closely aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS of April
1995), particularly in its emphasis on strengthening institutional capacity at the national level, improving the
competitiveness of the Argentine economy and increasing efficiency in the delivery of public services. Project
preparations included extensive consultations and stakeholder discussions. The preparation was supported at the
highest levels both in Argentina and within the Bank. The result was a project that responded to the Government's
desire to increase the efficiency of its investments in higher education in order to improve the quality and
availability of advanced human capital and thereby enhance the competitiveness of the Argentine economy (for the
Health Emergency Component please see Annex 8).

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Supervision of the project was of high technical quality, using the best combination of Bank
specialists and international experts. The bank carried out a total of 16 supervision missions, including a mid-term
review in April 1998. During each supervision mission, the PIU prepared and delivered to the Bank in a timely
manner, well-documented project implementation progress reports that resulted in valuable documentation to
accomplish the missions' objectives. Each supervision mission submitted an Aide Memoire including progress
made, issues to be addressed, recommendations and agreed solutions. Each Aide Memoire, thoroughly discussed
and signed, was subsequently used as a monitoring and follow-up mechanism. Two task managers were in charge
of the lending operation and led supervision missions. The second task manager was a team member during project
design, which provided for continuity on the part of the Bank.

Throughout the project's implementation, the Bank has responded quickly and positively to requests from the
Government, and has built close cooperation with government counterparts. The Bank's team demonstrated
flexibility and responsiveness to the Borrower's needs, especially during the difficult economic and financial
circumstances experienced by the project. Supervision was time and cost-effective as it was combined with the
supervision of other Bank projects pertaining to higher education and science and technology in the region.

The Bank team was instrumental in facilitating international cooperation and the sharing of experiences with other
countries in the region that are implementing or planning higher education reform programs, notably Brazil,



                                                        - 13 -

Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Uruguay. In April 2003 the SPU prepared a conference with participation of national
and international higher education experts, which provided valuable input to the ICR and future reforms of the
higher education system in Argentina.

The Bank was able to respond rapidly to the socio-economic crisis that Argentine underwent during 2001 and
2002. This rapid response was possible due to the flexibility shown by ongoing projects such as the Higher
Education Reform Project, to permit amendments that allowed some resources to be used to design new activities to
better respond to emerging needs of the government to protect human capital during the crisis.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. There was continuity of staff throughout the preparation and
supervision of the project. Supervision missions included an appropriate mix of expertise providing regular
guidance on sectoral issues, as well as procurement and financial management procedures.



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The borrower had the highest level of political commitment from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Education and Jefatura to the project. Quality and relevance issues and in-efficiency in public higher education
resulting in a decline in confidence to the higher education sector was behind the Government's launch of a reform
process. The project was designed to reinforce this reform process. Stakeholders at all levels from government
official to university professors were involved and committed already in the early preparation phases which made it
possible to begin implementation on a short time schedule.

An advance of US$ 862,000 from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF 233-O-AR) supported project preparation. An
extension of this PPF by US$ 400,000 to cover preparation cost until effectiveness was agreed during negotiations
and was signed in May 1995. The 13 activities financed under the PPF contributed to an improved project design
and made an important contribution to strengthening the institutional capacity of the newly established SUP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government was supportive throughout implementation. The dialogue with the SPU, Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Finance and Jefatura was excellent and all improvements suggested by the Bank were
made. The economic crisis in Argentina led, however, to financial problems and non-payment of outstanding
obligations, which made it necessary to extend the implementation phase in order to complete project activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. At all phases of the project the administration and processing of documentation for project
management was conducted effectively. Progress reports provided prior to supervision missions were of high
quality and allowed terms of references to be targeted at pressing issues.

Financial management was satisfactory and auditing was conducted in a timely manner. Procurement was carried
out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and procedures. The procurement team was highly efficient in
recording and monitoring all processes and in providing training to the coordinating units of 490 sub-projects in
27 universities throughout Argentina.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance was satisfactory, especially considering an extremely challenging macro
framework. The project management was very efficient. Difficulties with counterpart funding caused, however,
delays in the launch of sub-projects under FOMEC and continued to be a reason for delays throughout the life of
the project.

8. Lessons Learned




                                                       - 14 -

Lessons learned from the project include:

8.1 Project components A and B

·         Impact through ownership. Support of an already ongoing reform process facilitates implementation,
provides legitimacy and increases commitment to project development objectives. Ensuring such ownership at all
levels is important to keeping an operation on track in the face of adverse macro-economic circumstances.

·         Institutions put into effect matter. The higher education law of 1995 provided for the establishment of
CONEAU. However, only following several years of hard work and trial and error was CONEAU established as an
integral part of Argentina's higher education system.

·         M&E needs to be integrated in project preparation and implementation. Lack of clarification of roles and
responsibilities during project preparation for collecting baseline and performance data makes it difficult to sustain
momentum for maintaining indicators. Notably, this is the case when data collection depends on a flow of
information from a large number of beneficiaries (sub-projects).

·         Demonstration of best practice by supporting the best. Even limited investment, distributed based on
transparent and objective selection procedures, can go a long way in stimulating a culture of change and quality
improvement.

·         Tying implementation to counterpart budget increases is not a receipt for success. As illustrated by the
AR funding formula, linking components to increases in public subsidies makes implementation highly vulnerable
to external shocks.

·         Decentralized provision of counterpart funding exposes implementation to high risks during times of
crisis. The implementation of subprojects under the competitive fund went into implementation delays because
there was no control over counterpart funding at the project level. Although the intention behind having the
beneficiaries provide for the counterpart funding is to make them more accountable, it also exposes the
implementation of subprojects under a competitive fund to high risks during times of crisis, particularly when only
weak instruments are available for correction at the PIU level.

8.2 Project component C

·         Crisis response can be more effective and rapid if built upon existing institutions and on-going projects.
The health component benefited from working within the framework of existing Bank projects, programs and
organizations in the Ministry of Health such as the Maternal and Child Nutrition Project (PROMIN), the Public
Health Surveillance and disease Control Project (VIGIA) and the "Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional ­
Salud" (UFI-S) ­International Finance Unit of the Ministry of Health. Bank support was rapidly channeled through
existing operations working closely with persons and institutions that understood not only the Bank's procedures
and the operations within the health sector but that knew how to work and coordinate activities with other
governmental institutions such as the Ministry of Economics and other stakeholders.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1 Project components A and B

In 1995, the Ministry of Education --through the Secretariat for University Policies (SPU)-- fostered the creation
of the Higher Education Reform Program (PRES) with the goal of strengthening the ordering of the legal
framework for higher education and of introducing incentives for efficiency, equity and quality enhancement in
higher education. In order to fund this program, a loan operation was negotiated with the World Bank. The
program included the following components: "Inter-university Network" (RIU), "Institutional Strengthening"



                                                         - 15 -

(FOI), "University Information System" (SIU), "Resource Allocation" (AR), "National Commission for University
Evaluation and Accreditation" (CONEAU), and "Fund for the Enhancement of University Quality" (FOMEC).
These components gave rise to a scheduling of actions aimed at enhancing higher education quality, introducing
changes in the methodology of public resource allocation to National Universities, promoting the improvement of
information quality and transparency, and strengthening the leadership and programming competencies at the
Secretariat for University Policies.

This program was ground-breaking vis-à-vis traditional higher education funding practices in Argentina. Through
this program, the Secretariat for University Policies promoted actions leading to the introduction of qualitative
changes in our higher education system.

Although the funding provided by the World Bank was small when compared to the total provided by the National
Government for the funding of public universities during the seven years in which this Program was implemented,
this marginal funding has allowed the tackling of actions which would have been difficult to finance through the
regular budget.

The program had a significant impact on the higher education system: it has led to strengthening of the Secretariat
for University Policies --non-existent before 1993-- establishment of a funding system for specific projects geared
towards enhancing the quality of teaching, support for the performance of CONEAU --thus helping to set up a
culture of evaluation which is nowadays generally accepted--, and the development of information systems which
allow for a more transparent and efficient management of each University and of the university system as a whole.

In view of the importance of the program and of its impact, during the second half of 2002 the SPU and the Bank
agreed to undertake the Final Assessment of the Program with the goal of analyzing its impact, strengths and
weaknesses from a prospective standpoint. The first stage of this process included a Preliminary Diagnostic
Assessment of the FOMEC, SIU and CONEAU components. In the case of FOMEC the impact analysis of the
approximately 500 FOMEC projects started with reports with the perception of each Project Director and the
consolidated view of each one of the 36 participating universities (through an Internal Assessment Committee,
which was especially set up in each one of them). Furthermore, the views of a representative group of stakeholders
responsible for the design, implementation and follow-up of the projects were also surveyed. In the cases of SIU
and CONEAU, in addition to in-house assessment reports by each of these institutions, independent consultants
conducted opinion surveys in order to poll the universe of participants, and held a series of in-depth interviews
with authorities selected from a sample was undertaken in order to consider the views of all the parties involved.

In April 2003, SPU organized an International Workshop on the "Impact of the PRES and its Projection". The
participants in this event ­ attended by all the key members of the Program, representatives of different sectors of
the National University System and international experts in this field ­ discussed the conclusions of the process
described in the previous paragraph, in order to take stock of the lessons learned in view of a possible new funding
trance that would support the development of the future strategy for the Higher Education Sector.

Both the conclusions of the above-mentioned assessment process and the discussions held at the Workshop
evidenced the existence of strong consensus in the higher education system regarding the success of the PRES.

The recommendations of the assessment, together with the conclusions arrived at during the discussions in the
aforementioned workshop, provide the groundwork for initiating discussions for a new credit operation with the
World Bank, which would provide for the implementation of a new program for the development of higher
education.

Remarks regarding the goals, design and results of the PRES
The main goal of the project was to "establish a competitive environment for the enhancement of higher education
and to provide, through transparent funding mechanisms, appropriate incentives for continuing increases in
educational efficiency and in the quality of teaching."

The components included in the Program were geared towards quality enhancement, the development of a


                                                        - 16 -

mechanism of university evaluation and accreditation and of a management information and university statistics
system, as well as towards the institution building of the SPU.

According to the results of the external assessments undertaken, which have been described in the previous section,
the performance of the Program components was highly satisfactory and their impact was significant.

As regards the impact of the Program on the internal efficiency indexes, although a mild improvement can be
detected, there are still high dropout rates --especially during the early stages of university studies-- and low rates
of graduation. This situation cannot be considered as Program failure because, actually, the design of its
components did not include actions specifically aimed at diminishing dropout rates.

Furthermore, it should be stressed that whereas 73% of the funds allocated to FOMEC projects were awarded to
basic science and technology academic units, only 28% of undergraduate students in 2001 were studying these
subject areas. Therefore, the greater effort undertaken through the FOMEC projects for the enhancement of
educational quality was channeled to fields, which have a lower enrollment rate, thus dampening its indirect
impact on the efficiency indicators.

The need to attack the dropout problem and the low graduation rates is one of the mainstays of the present
administration's policy. Specific tools for lowering dropout rates and increasing graduation rates will be essential
in future programs.

Performance of the World Bank and of the Borrower
We believe that both the World Bank project team and the borrower's units responsible for the implementation of
the Program have had a highly satisfactory performance.

The World Bank project team kept a continuous and easy contact with the Executing Unit of the Program (UEP).
This relationship was extremely important for the settlement of problems that could arise as well as for the
reception of suggestions regarding the implementation of the Program.

Lessons learned
We present below some operational aspects that should be taken into account in future programs:

·         It would be advisable to design a more decentralized system of procurement and recruitment. The
intervention of the UEP in the approval process of procurement for each one of the almost 500 FOMEC projects
was a cumbersome system that led to a heavy administrative burden. It would be convenient, therefore, to design a
system of controls and ex-post audits in order to verify that all procurement is compliant with the regulations.

·         More attention should be given to the substantive follow-up of sub-projects funded by the Program,
verifying their progress and monitoring the indicators set for each one of the sub-projects.

·         Currently, the CONEAU and the SIU are fully operative. In the future this will allow a greater use of the
CONEAU's assessments and of the information resulting from the systems implemented by the SIU in the
assessment, analysis and follow-up of the sub-projects being funded.

Suggestions for future programs
The design of a second program should take into account the basic goals of the current administration's university
policy, which underscores the following basic objectives: (i) the integration of the university system and an
improved articulation with the secondary education system; (ii) the quality of education and the optimization of
institutional management, and (iii) the relevance of the institutions vis-à-vis society. Government university
policies also aim at decreasing the dropout rate and increasing the graduation rate while ensuring continuing
quality and providing greater coverage for the lower-income population in order to strengthen social equity.

9.2 Project component C




                                                         - 17 -

Please see Annex 8 for partner comments on the Health Emergency Component.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:

             Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Cost-per graduate in (constant 2002       (Baseline: 17,780)               Indicator: 14,201 USD per graduate
USD)

Graduation rate (graduation relative to   (Baseline: 19.6%)                Indicator: 24.5%
student intake in public universities,
assuming 7 years completion time)

Estimated returns to tertiary education   (Baseline 1992: 9.2%)            Indicator: 13.8%
(all tertiary graduates)
Faculty with an MA or PhD (examples)      UBA biology: (baseline: 38%)     UBA biology: 70%
                                          UBA informatics: (baseline: 16%) UBA informatics: 68%
                                         Universidad Nacional de Misiones  Universidad Nacional de Misiones
                                         engineering: (baseline: 1%)       engineering: 25%

Scientists and engineers in R&D (per      (Baseline: 659)                  Indicator: 713
million people)

Internationally co-authored articles      (Baseline: 234)                  Indicator: 1,120 articles
(annual)

Estimated citations per published         (Baseline: 1.17)                 Indicator 1999: 1.32 citations per
Argentine research article                                                 scientific article



Output Indicators:
             Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of SPU personnel participating in     PSR: 287 persons                 Indicator: 287 persons
training                                  (Baseline: 0)

Undergraduate programs accredited         PSR: 24 programs                 Indicator: 27 programs
                                          (Baseline: 0)

Graduate programs accredited              PSR: 895 programs                Indicator: 945 programs
                                          (Baseline: 165)

No. of universities externally evaluated  PSR: 36 universities             Indicator: 33 universities
                                          (Baseline: 3)

No. of public universities authorized to  PSR: 5                           Indicator: 5 institutions (out of 15
commence operations                                                        applying institutions)

No. of private universities authorized to PSR: 6                           Indicator: 6 institutions (out of 100
commence operations                                                        applying institutions)

Public subsidies for higher education     PSR: 2.0%                        Indicator: 3.9%
allocated using the AR formula            (Baseline: 0%)

Percentage of public universities using   PSR: 100%                        Indicator: 100%
SIU                                       (Baseline: 0%)




                                                            - 19 -

            Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of universities participating in RIU PSR: 37 universities             Indicator: 37 universities
                                         (Baseline: 0)

Number of RIU permanent users            PSR: 750,000 students; 110,000   Indicator: 750,000 students; 110,000
                                         teachers and 37,500 researchers  teachers and 37,500 researchers
                                         (Baseline: 0)

Selected FOMEC sub-projects relative to PSR: 40%                          Indicator: 40% (500 selected
total number of sub-project applications                                  sub-projects out 1256 applications)

Implemented FOMEC sub-projects           PSR: 98%                         Indicator: 98% (490 implemented
relative to the number of approved                                        sub-projects out of 500 approved
sub-projects                                                              sub-projects)

University faculty awarded scholarships (Baseline: 0)                     Indicator: 1106 teachers (success rate
finalizing their training                                                 86%)

Undergraduate and graduate students      (Baseline: 0)                    Indicator: 663 students (success rate
awarded scholarships obtaining their                                      85%)
degree

University faculty awarded scholarships  (Baseline: 0)                    Indicator: 482 teachers
to study overseas

No. of visiting scholars                 PSR: 2026 scholars               Indicator: 3961 scholars

Finalized library improvement            (Baseline: 0)                    Indicator: 52 projects
sub-projects

No. of curricula changes introduced      PSR: 31                          Indicator: 61
                                         (Baseline: 0)

Finalized sub-projects in post-graduate  (Baseline: 0)                    Indicator: 155 projects
education

Finalized institutional development      (Baseline: 0)                    Indicator: 42 projects
sub-projects




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate            Estimate        Appraisal
                          Component                                 US$ million          US$ million
1. Institutional strengthening
SUP                                                                       2.21                  1.95           88.2
CONEAU                                                                   10.27                  9.90           96.4
SIU                                                                       6.99                  7.16          102.4
RIU                                                                       1.80                  3.70          205.6
FOMEC Management                                                          5.45                 10.02          183.9
PIU                                                                       4.12                  3.82           92.7
2. Enhancement of educational quality                                  238.44                142.24            59.7
3. Strengthen disease surveillance and control activities                 0.00                 17.60

Total Baseline Cost                                                    269.28                196.39
 Physical Contingencies                                                   0.52                  0.00              0
 Price Contingencies                                                      1.86                  0.00              0
                             Total Project Costs                       271.66                196.39
                                               Front-end fee              1.34                  1.34         100.00
                     Total Financing Required                          273.00                197.73


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                  ICB              NCB                     2            N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                             Other
1. Works                                  0.00             0.00               0.70               0.00         0.70
                                        (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.30)             (0.00)       (0.30)
2. Goods                                  8.10             6.70              79.10               0.00        93.90
                                        (5.70)            (4.70)            (55.50)             (0.00)      (65.90)
3. Services                               0.00             0.00              32.80               0.00        32.80
                                        (0.00)            (0.00)            (26.30)             (0.00)      (26.30)
4. Scholasrships and                      0.00             0.00             120.50               0.00        120.50
Teachers Training                       (0.00)            (0.00)            (72.50)             (0.00)      (72.50)
5. Miscellaneous operating                0.00             0.00              25.10               0.00        25.10
costs                                   (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                                  8.10             6.70             258.20               0.00        273.00
                                        (5.70)            (4.70)            (154.60)            (0.00)      (165.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
      contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
      services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
      services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
      project funds to local government units.



                                                       - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         1
                                                                Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                  ICB                   NCB                  2 / 3      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                                     Other
   1. Works                                    0.00                  0.00              2.82          0.00           2.82
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)            (1.03)         (0.00)        (1.03)
   2. Goods                                   21.17                  2.31             71.99          0.00          95.47
                                             (14.80)                (1.62)           (63.46)         (0.00)        (79.88)
   3. Services                                 0.00                  0.00             40.49          0.00          40.49
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)           (24.83)         (0.00)        (24.83)
   4. Scholasrships and                        0.00                  0.00             50.92          0.00          50.92
   Teachers Training                          (0.00)                (0.00)           (28.76)         (0.00)        (28.76)
   5. Miscellaneous operating                  0.00                  0.00              0.00          0.00           0.00
   costs                                      (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
       Total                                  21.17                  2.31             166.22         0.00          189.70
                                             (14.80)                (1.62)           (118.08)        (0.00)       (134.50)
  Note: The table does not include procurement under the project's disease control component.

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

       3/ The category 'Goods: Other' includes procurement for the disease surveillance and control activities.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                     Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank          Govt.           CoF.         Bank        Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.     CoF.
Institutional strengthening     17.65          13.19                        18.82       17.62              106.6  133.6
Enhancement of                  144.90         93.54                        96.71       45.53              66.7    48.7
Educational Quality
Disease surveillance and         0.00          0.00                         17.60       0.00               0.0     0.0
control activities
Physical Contingencies           0.34          0.18                         0.00        0.00               0.0     0.0
Price Contingencies              2.11          1.09                         0.03        0.00               1.4     0.0
Front-end Fee                    0.00          0.00                         1.34        0.08               0.0     0.0
Total Financing Required        165.00        108.00                       134.50       63.23              81.5    58.5

  Note: The table does not include financing for the project's disease control component




                                                                 - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Graduation rate in Argentine public universities
High first-year dropout rates, completion delays and low completion rates are sources of low internal efficiency in
the Argentine university system. Tracking the students enrolling in 2001 and registering for classes in 2002 show a
first-year dropout rate of about 40 percent.

                           Student intake and graduation in Argentine public universities, 1988 ­ 2003



                       300,000

                       250,000

                       200,000

                       150,000
               Students
                       100,000

                        50,000

                            0

                              1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003

                                                                    Intake         Graduates

                                  Source: Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología de Argentina (2004)


To assess the overall completion rate of students entering a university, the graph above includes the annual student
intake and graduation data for Argentine public universities between 1988 and 2003. No data exist that allow
individual students to be tracked over time. Drawing on Becerra et al. (2003) students are therefore assumed to
spend on average seven years to complete their studies.

When compiling graduation relative to student intake seven years earlier, an increase in the graduation rate of 38
percent is found between 1995 and 2002. The improvement in the rate of graduation can primarily be attributed to
an increase in graduation of 69 percent in the 1995-2002 period from 33,261 to 56,345 students. Analyses applying
different assumptions about average graduation time (including same year comparison) all show an increase in the
rate of graduation in Argentina between 1995 and 2002.

                       Annual number of graduates from Argentine public universities and rate of graduation
                                      1995         1996         1997         1998         1999         2000  2001   2002
No. of graduates                     33,261       34,905       34,356       35,873       38,474       46,595 48,244 56,345
Graduration rate (%)                  19.6         20.5         19.9         21.8         23.2         26.9   25.0   27.0
                                                Note: Assuming seven-years completion time


Applying the 1995 graduation rate to the 1996-2002 graduation cohort (1989-1995 intake) shows that the higher
completion rate accounts for approximately 50,000 students. These students would not have finished university had
the low 1995 graduration rate prevailed.

While progress can be observed, dropout rates are still high in Argentina by international comparison. Only one of
three admitted students graduate university in Argentine, whereas the comparable ratio is 1:2 for Chile and
Colombia. Hence, significant unrealized potential remain for improving internal efficiency in the Argentine public




                                                                   - 23 -

university system.

Estimated gains from improvements in efficiency
Along with improvements in the graduation rate, evidence suggests that public universities in Argentina have been
successful in increasing graduate cost-efficiency in recent years, in part, due to changes in the financing regime
and better university and sector management. To estimate the cost-efficiency of the university system in producing
graduates, the graph (below) compiles public cost per university graduate between 1995 and 2001 in constant 2002
USD. Following an efficiency drop between 1996 and 1998, the graph shows an improvement in efficiency from
1998 onwards. For the entire 1995-2001 period, the net efficiency gain was 20 percent.

                                                 Graduate cost-efficiency in Argentine public universities, 1995 ­ 2001


                                             20000

                                             19000

                                USD) 18000

                graduate        2002         17000
                        per
                                             16000
                           Cost     (constant
                                             15000

                                             14000
                                                     1995        1996        1997       1998          1999         2000         2001


                                Source: Becerra et al.( 2003) and Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología de Argentina (2004)
Note: Constant 2002 pesos have been converted into USD using the July 1, 2002 exchange rate. Graduation data are not available beyond 2001.


To estimate the savings derived from the gain in efficiency, 2001 spending is compared to an extrapolation of
spending at the 1995 efficiency level. When multiplying cost per student in 1995 by the number of graduates in
2001 and subtracting actual 2001 spending, the efficiency gain constitutes a projected saving of 170 million USD
in 2001 (current 2002 USD). The estimated efficiency gain in 2001 alone accounted for roughly 1.4 times the total
loan amount.

Contribution of the project to improved internal efficiency
Although in money terms only financing a small fraction of total sector expenditure, evidence suggests that the
targeted investments under the project made an important contribution to improving internal efficiency (in addition
to its impact on quality). Contributions include:

    l    Enhancement of institutional management capacity, e.g. for collecting data, tracking students and
         identifying underperforming individuals
    l    Introduction of the AR funding formula with indicators that reward internal efficiency
    l    Improvement of sector statistics on student study activity making it transparent which institutions are the
         least efficient
    l    Reorientation of university studies by developing new curricula and teaching methodologies, e.g.
         improving student progression and achievement by encouraging participation in learning processes and
         focusing on competences required in the job market
    l    Improvement of teaching and research equipment, e.g. motivating students by providing improved
         opportunities for experimentation in real-life circumstances and allowing students to complete their thesis
         work on time.




                                                                                - 24 -

As pointed out in section 4.2.1, findings show that FOMEC sub-projects had a positive impact on internal
efficiency when controlling for performance differences at entry between supported and non-supported programs.
Engineering programs in national universities with FOMEC funding, for example, featured an increase in the rate
of graduation (graduates relative to student intake) of 41 percent between 1995 and 2001. In contrast, engineering
programs without FOMEC funding experienced an increase in the rate of graduation of only 1 percent in the same
period. Similar results are found for programs in other fields of study.




                                                        - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              January 1994              5    Task Manager, Consultants (3),
                                             Education Specialist
              May 1994                  5    Task Manager, Consultants (3),
                                             Education Specialist
              October 1994            12     Mission at headquarters,
                                             Washington DC with delegation
                                             from Argentina

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November 1994             6    Task Manager, Education                HS             HS
                                             Specialist, Economist,
                                             Consultants (3)

 Supervision
              June 1996                 4    Task Manager, Consultant,              HS             HS
                                             Economist (2)
              November 1996             4    Task Manager, Consultant, S&T          S               S
                                             Specialist, Economist
              July 1997                 2    Task Manager, Consultant               S               S
              April 1998                4    Task Manager, Economist, HE            S               S
                                             Specialist, Consultant
              December 1998             3    Task Manager; S&T Specialist;          S               S
                                             Operations Specialist
              June 1998                 4    Task Manager, Education                S               S
                                             Specialist (2), Consultant
              August 1999               4    Task Manager, HE Funding               S               S
                                             Specialist, HE policy Specialist,
                                             Economist
              June 2000                 3    Task Manager, HE policy                S               S
                                             Specialist, Funding Specialist
              February 2001             3    Task Manager, Economist,               S               S
                                             Procurement Analyst
              July 2001                 2    Task Manager, Consultant               S               S
              March 2002                1    Task Manager                           S               S
              August 2002               3    Task Manager, Consultant,              S               S
                                             Operation Officer
              February 2003             1    Task Manager                           S               S
              April 2003                2    Task Manager, Operation                S               S
                                             Specialist
              July 2003                 2    Task Manager, Operation                S               S
                                             Specialist
              September 2003            1    Task Manager                           S               S

 ICR
              March 2004                2     Task Manager, M&E                     S               S
                                              specialist



                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         m                              123.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              m                              123.6
  Supervision                                      40.8                             138.0
  ICR                                               3.6                              12.8
  Total                                                                             398.0
* This information is based on the information currently in SAP. The figures for identification/preparation and
appraisal/negotiation and part of number of staff weeks for supervision are only estimated. For data before FY98,
the information system provides total amounts, without disaggregating by number of staff weeks and project cycle
stage.




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Easterly, W and R. Levine (2001). Its not factor accumulation: stylized facts and growth models, Washington
D.C.: World Bank Economic Review, 15( 2), 177-219

Becerra, Marcelo; Oscar Cetrángolo; Javier Curcio and Juan Pablo Jiménez (2003). Expenditure on University in
Argentina, Working paper produced by the World Bank Office for Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay

Fiszbein, Ariel; Paula Giovangoli and Harry Anthonry Patrinos (2003). Estimating the Returns to Education in
Argentina: 1992-2002. Washington D.C.: The World Bank (forthcoming)

Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz and Thomas Nikolaj Hansen (2004). Education and Skills in Argentina ­ Assessing
Argentina's Stock of Human Capital, Internal Working Paper, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

IMD (2000/2003). World Competitiveness Yearbook 2000/2003, Lausanne, Switzerland: International Institute for
Management Development

Isuani, Ernesto Aldo (2003). Estudio sobre algunos Resultados de la Labor de la Comisión de Evaluación y
Acreditación Universitaria (CONEAU), Buenos Aires: Secretaria de Políticas Universitarias

Isuani, Ernesto Aldo (2003). Estudio sobre algunos Resultados de la Labor del Sistema de Información
Universitaria (SIU), Buenos Aires: Secretaria de Políticas Universitarias

Lederman, Daniel and William F. Maloney (2003). R&D and Development, Washington D.C.: The World Bank
(forthcoming)

MEST (2002). Informe Final - Comisión Nacional para el Mejoramiento de la Educación Superior, Buenos Aires:
Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología

National Science Foundation (2002). Science and Engineering Indicators, Washington D.C.: National Science
Board

Oszlak, Oscar; Augusto Trombetta and Diego Asensio (2003). Evaluación del Programa Fondo Para el
Mejoramiento de la Calidad Universitaria, Buenos Aires: Secretaria de Políticas Universitarias

Pugliese, Juan Carlos eds. (2003). Políticas de Estado para la Universidad Argentina ­ Balance de una gestión en
el nuevo contexto nacional e internacional, Buenos Aires: Secretaría de Políticas Universitarias; Ministerio de
Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología

Thorn, Kristian and Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (2004). Science and Technology in Argentina ­ A Profile of Issues and
Practices, Internal Working Paper, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

World Bank (1994). Higher Education ­ The Lessons of Experience, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

World Bank (2003). Argentina ­ Reforming Policies and Institutions for Efficiency and Equity and Public
Expenditures, Washington D.C.: The World Bank




                                                       - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Implementation Completion Report for the Health
Emergency Component

1. Introduction

This annex provides a summary description of the Emergency Component. The information presented in this
annex includes the overall evaluation ratings of the Emergency Program (not only those components that are were
partially funded with financial resources from the Higher Education Project).

2. Overall Rating

Overall, the performance rating of the project outcome of the entire Emergency project is satisfactory; the Bank
performance rating is satisfactory, and the borrower performance rating is also satisfactory. The sustainability is
rated as satisfactory, and the institutional development impact is rated as medium.

3. Development Objectives and Design

3.1. Original Objective
The main objective of this program was to provide the material support needed to avoid the most deleterious
impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population with actions in health, education, nutrition, temporary
work, income support and community activities.

In relation to the Health sector component of the Emergency Program (Health Emergency Program--HEP), the
general objective was to help the government to protect the most vulnerable population and to maintain essential
public health programs. These programs support the functioning of the public hospital network, provide essential
drugs for the most vulnerable, and protect priority public health measures, including immunizations, disease
control and ensuring services related to women's reproductive health care and prenatal controls, such as anemia
prevention, child delivery, newborn reception, post-partum and child health care, through the provision of
pharmaceutical products, medical supplies and iron-fortified milk.

Bank support for these activities was channeled through existing operations, including: the Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control
Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516). In addition cost savings of Provincial Roads Project (4093-AR), Flood Protection
Project (4117-AR), Provincial Agriculture Development Project (4150AR), Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project
(4163-AR). Savings from Higher Education Reform Loan (Loan 3921-AR) supported activities under VIGIA only.

The new health components of the Higher Education Reform project were added through the fifth amendment of
16 October 2002.

3.2. Extensions of the closing date
The overall Emergency Program has been extended until 2005. However the extension of this program does not
affect the resources coming from the Higher Education Reform Project since 100 percent of the resources (US$
17.6 million ) have already been disbursed.

3.3. Original Components

3.3.1. General Information

The original two components were described in a President's Memorandum entitled "Argentina--Proposed
Amendment to Restructure the Portfolio to Support the Finance of the Emergency Program" and dated 23
September 2002 (R2002-0189). Since this program consisted of the restructuring of already existing projects there
were no SAR or PAD.



                                                       - 31 -

The funds for the Emergency Program in the health sector (Emergencia ­ Salud) were implemented through two
main channels consisting of two previously existing lending projects in the health sector: the Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control
Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516). LUSIDA was a third project that was being implemented in the health sector
supporting activities in the HIV / AIDS program in Argentina at the time of the design of the emergency program.
However, given the fact that the project would be completed by the time of the implementation of the emergency
project, this project was not chosen to be one of the components.

The special emergency circumstances under which the program was developed and implemented required a
complex design to be implemented within a difficult institutional framework which included various actors: the
relevant sectorial and extra-sectorial projects at the Bank and at the Inter American Development Bank (IADB),
the two projects PROMIN and VIGIA, the International Finance Unit of the Ministry of Health, "Unidad de
Financiamiento Internacional- Salud" (UFI-S) which was responsible for the financial management of the funds on
behalf of PROMIN and VIGIA, and finally the departments that traditionally carried out the purchases and
acquisitions of the goods within the Ministry of Health.

Table No. 1 details the savings allocation according to each of the programs.

                                                         Table No.1
                             Bank Loans with Savings Reallocated to the Social Emergency Program
                                                      (In US$ millions)

                                                           Undisbursed      Amount reallocated    Amount reallocated
                                 Loan No.  Loan Amount     July 31 2002      to VIGIA activities  to PROMIN activities
          Higher Education        3921        139               28                  17.6                  -
          Provincial Roads        4093        300              200                   9                    9
          Flood Protection        4117        200              130                  30                    5
          Provincial Agriculture  4150        125              105                  15                    5
          BA Urban Transport      4163        200              126                  35                  15
          TOTAL                               994              617                106.6                 34



3.3.2. Health Emergency Program subcomponents

The Health Emergency Program had two subcomponents: a) The Strengthening of Disease Control Subcomponent
implemented through the VIGIA; and b) The Emergency Drugs and Supplies Subcomponent implemented through
the PROMIN.

a) The Strengthening of Disease Control Subcomponent implemented through the VIGIA

The specific objective of the VIGIA component designed to acquire anti-retro viral therapy was to sustain the
reduced mortality rates that have been attained and provide resources for the public program designed to contain
vertical transmission of HIV among pregnant women in Argentina.

Since 9 January 2002 when a new law was passed, public hospitals, social security institutions and private health
insurances must offer pregnant women the option of having an HIV test, and if the result is positive to provide
appropriate therapy to avoid vertical transmission to their children. The emergency component supported this
public program to avoid vertical transmission of HIV to newborns.

The subcomponent under the VIGIA project: a) carried out a program of actions for disease monitoring, control
and prevention of tuberculosis, dengue, and other vector disease control, and hospital infections, through the
acquisition and distribution of medical drugs and supplies, and pesticides; and b) carried out a set of actions for
disease monitoring, control and prevention of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, through, inter
alia, the provision of anti-retro viral therapy and critical diagnostic supplies for blood banks and other diagnostic
centers.



                                                           - 32 -

The procurement arrangements designed to implement the acquisitions program were:

l    Vaccines and drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis (US $13.5 million), through direct contracting with the
     Pan American Health Organization (PAHO);
l    HIV / AIDS drugs (anti-retroviral therapy and antibiotics against opportunistic infections) and supplies for
     blood banks (inputs for diagnostic of HIV, hepatitis B and C and syphilis) (US $10.4 million), through limited
     international bidding (LIB);
l    Supplies for vector control programs, laboratory equipment and vehicles (US $10.64 million), through
     international competitive bidding (ICB);
l    Medical supplies including prescription drugs (US $1.76 million), through national competitive bidding
     (NCB);
l    Medical supplies including drugs, vaccines and others (US $0.1 million), through shopping.

b) The Emergency Drugs and Supplies Subcomponent implemented through the PROMIN

The specific objective of this subcomponent was to improve the services related to women's reproductive health
care and prenatal controls, including anemia prevention, child delivery, newborn reception, post-partum and child
health care, through the acquisition of and distribution of medical drugs and supplies, and pesticides.

The activities implemented under the PROMIN (a total amount of US $34 million) project included:

l    Prenatal controls and anemia prevention. This activity refers to the provision of medical controls during
     pregnancy and early detection and treatment of anemia among pregnant women.
l    Child delivery and newborn reception. This activity refers to the medical assistance for delivery of children
     and care of newborns.
l    Post-partum care. This activity refers to the early medical care of women who just have delivered their babies.
l    Purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical supplies. This activity refers to the purchase of
     pharmaceutical products and medical supplies needed for prenatal controls and anemia, for child delivery,
     newborn reception and post-partum care.
l    Purchase of iron-fortified milk for mother and infants. This activity refers to the purchase of milk enriched
     with iron an important nutritional supplement for both pregnant women and infants.

The economic, social and political instability that ensued Argentina's default of its debt and the devaluation of the
currency caused a serious deterioration of the capacity of the government to sustain essential public health
programs. The crisis had a broad impact across all sectors of public and private institutions. Public health services
were overburdened due to an increasing demand caused by the growth of unemployment. The rapidly increasing
number of individuals without any health insurance coverage in the years previous to the crisis was compounded by
the shock of the crisis in the labor markets and on household incomes.

Bank support through the health component was planned to provide for about 27 million vaccinations, such as for
hepatitis and polio, as well as give about 3.5 million people anti-TB vaccines (about 15,000 new cases of TB were
identified in 2002, up from 13,000 in 1997, with another 18,000 expected for 2003), and help another 17,200
patients with AIDS being treated through the public sector. Strengthening support through the PROMIN program
was planned to enhance health and nutrition benefits for the initial target population of 70,000 poor pregnant
women, 55,000 children less than one year old and 250,000 children ages 2 to 5 years old. In education, the
relevant component would benefit about 4.2 million students from targeted high risks schools, or about half of the
total student population at primary and secondary levels. In addition, the nutrition/ community action component
would reach about 350,000 poor indigents and provide them with a daily meal during the next two years.




                                                         - 33 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1. Objective
The main objective of this program was to provide the material support needed to avoid the most deleterious
impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population with actions in health, education, nutrition, temporary
work, income support and community activities. The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory

                                                           Graph No. 1

                    Argentina 1998 - 2003 Evolution of Infant Mortality Rates Source: PAHO and MoH of Argentina


               19.5



                19         19.1


               18.5


                18



               17.5                         17.6


                17
            IMR
                                                                                                 16.8
                                                               16.6
               16.5                                                                                               16.5
                                                                                  16.3

                16



               15.5


                15



               14.5
                       1998              1999               2000              2001            2002             2003

                                                                     Years


When Argentina was facing the peak of the economic crisis, infant mortality increased from 16.2 in 2001 to 16.8
in 2002 (mainly neonatal mortality). This phenomenon not only meant a break in a steady trend of infant mortality
decline but a reversal of it, an unprecedented case even when compared with poorer countries in the region. The
Emergency ­ Health Program implemented through PROMIN and VIGIA has contributed to maintain a safety net
for the most vulnerable population. Preliminary analysis of recent data suggests Argentina has started to go back to
trends of decreasing infant mortality rates existing before the crisis (see Graph No.1).

4.2. Outputs
The program has fulfilled its objectives and reached the goals originally set: almost 8 million doses of
anti-tuberculosis vaccine (BCG) have been distributed and administered, that is 4.5 million more than originally
planned. Combined anti-retroviral drug treatments were distributed and timely received by 19,500 individuals,
which represents 2,500 more than the original goal of 17,000. The fortified milk component has benefited a
combined total of 1.3 million children less than one year old and pregnant women, which represents more than 280
percent of the proposed coverage goals.

It is important to point out that this success is due in large part to the diminishing price of the relevant drugs and
other goods acquired through this program, a situation that is related to a diversity of factors observed in various
bidding process, such as the purchases of vaccines through PAHO, the acquisition of generic drugs instead of
brand names, and/or the participation of more providers in the bidding process. The application of Bank
procurement rules for the acquisition of goods and services for the PROMIN project introduced new standards for
acquisition and purchasing practices in the health sector. New competitive biddings opened up the market and
allowed prices to reach new equilibrium conditions reflecting more competitive practices. Taking advantage of



                                                               - 34 -

these positive market effects and new exchange rates allowed the program to be more effective in reaching its
original and emergency objectives.

                                                                           Table No.2
                                        Disbursements of Emergency Program Health Component 1999-2004

                                                                             Executed    Executed    Executed    Executed
                         ITEM                       ORIGINAL                                                                  2002                     2004
                                                    BUDGET    ACTUAL BUDGET   1998        1999        2000        2001                      2,003
                                                                             (SOE 12)    (SOE 25)    (SOE 36)    (SOE 49)   (SOE 65) (*)             Projected



      1. SUBPROJECTS                                69,900       60,600       7,783      13,627      11,196       5,221       4,448       2,322      6,361

       A   Equipment                                11,400       9,500        812         1,911       1,320       749         712           357      2,191

       B   Civil works                              45,500       30,400       3,825       7,232       6,056       2,079       1,119         278      2,540

       C   Training, Dissem. & Instit. Strength.    13,000       20,700       3,146       4,484       3,820       2,393       2,617        1,687     1,630

      2. HEALTH STATISTICS                          4,800        2,100          0           2           1          14         188           354        739

       A   Goods                                    3,200        1,200          0           2           1           0           0           152        605

       B   Consultants                              1,600         900           0           0           0          14         188           202        134

      3. COORDINATION AND SUPERVISION               5,300        8,500          1         2,209       1,934       829         1,584         956        563

       A   Consulting                               4,800        8,100          1         2,157       1,913       827         1,461         796        533

       B   Goods                                     500          400           0          52          21           2         123           160        30

      4. NOT ASSIGNED (*)                           20,000         0            0           0           0           0           0             0         0

      5. STUDIES (NATIONAL)                            0         3,600          0           0           0           0         260           90         957

         REGULAR PROMIN Subtotal                   100,000      74,800       7,784     15,838      13,131        6,064       6,480        3,722      8,620

                                                                              10%         21%         18%         8%          9%            5%        12%



       HEALTH EMERGENCY Subtotal                       0        25,200          0           0           0           0        4,056        16,740       76

                                                                              0%          0%          0%          0%          16%          66%         1%



                  TOTAL PROMIN II                  100,000      100,000      7,784     15,838        13,131      6,064       10,536       20,462     8,697

                                                                              8%          16%         13%         6%          11%          20%         9%



Additionally, by taking advantage of the new conditions created by the new Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH)
law passed in 2002 the project supported Sexual and Reproductive Health activities deemed very important by the
Ministry of Health. Argentina did not have a comprehensive National Program for Sexual and reproductive health
care and by 2003 the law had not yet been implemented. Within this context the project help strengthen the
existing team in order to create a comprehensive program. As a consequence of these actions, the Program is
currently being implemented in all the provinces (whereas it originally only existed at a smaller scale in four
provinces).

The EPH program has already reached a level of disbursement of 90 percent of the financial resources that were
originally destined for this program. Furthermore, an estimated level of 98 percent will be reached by the end of
June 2005 (see Graph and Table No. 1).

5. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

Prices of important medicines and supplies kept artificially high by closed markets and other public purchasing
practices

Along with other structural limitation of purchasing practices in the public sector the relatively high prices of
many health care goods such as pharmaceuticals and others placed important economic constraints on decision
makers on the capacity to acquire such products. The purchase of important pharmaceuticals like pediatric
medicines, anti- retrovirals, condoms and other inputs for the public health services were limited by prevailing
practices that placed important barriers on the entrance of new providers of these health care products.




                                                                                - 35 -

6. Sustainability

The government of Argentina has been planning and implementing a gradual phasing out of the Emergency
program by:

l    Progressively incorporating the most critical inputs for important basic public health that were supported by
     the Emergencia ­ Salud Program in the national budget since the fiscal year 2004 (i.e. vaccines have already
     been acquired regularly through the national budget during this fiscal year as before the crisis).

l    Encouraging and supporting the provinces to incorporate back into the provincial budgets other important
     inputs necessary to sustain public health programs such as pesticides for vector control. Some provinces have
     already started this process.

l    Planning and designing a transitional project that supports the complete phase out of the Emergencia - Salud
     Program within a longer term strategy of improvement and reform of public policies that address important
     basic public health goods. Currently the authorities are also exploring the possibility that such project could be
     carried out in partnership with the Bank.

7. Bank and borrower performance

7.1. Bank Lending
The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The program objectives were closely aligned with the crisis response of
the Bank and also with the new objectives defined by Bank for the Social Emergency Program. The development of
the emergency program for the health sector has made an efficient use of existing financial resources, on going
projects and local institutional capacity in order to provide a rapid response to the state of social emergency in
which Argentina was subsumed. The design of the program, although complex, has proven to be highly effective in
order to achieve the proposed development objectives. Also, the Bank's response was well coordinated with other
agencies such as the Inter American Development Bank (IADB) and other local and international institutions. This
broad coalition of efforts was focused on tackling the most urgent needs of the government with the goal of
protecting the poorest groups of the population and its human capital.

7.2. Supervision
The supervision of the project was of high technical quality, using efficiently the combination of available human
resources. The Bank carried out a total of six supervision missions to VIGIA and PROMIN during the
implementation of the emergency program. In each of these missions a special time was devoted to analyze the
progress of the emergency program as related to the health sector. Additionally, three missions were carried out
especially devoted to supervise the Emergency Program.

8. Lessons learned

Effective response to crisis needs to be built on national and international coordination. The major
socio-economic crisis that Argentina faced posed a serious challenge for the government and for the Bank to
provide support to protect the most detrimental effects of the crisis among poor and indigent households. The
concerted actions of international organizations and government focusing on selected objectives aimed to protect
key human capital resources proved to be of the utmost importance in provide effective assistance.

Crisis response can be more effective and rapid if built upon existing institutions and on-going portfolio projects.
Working within the framework of existing organizations and programs such as PROMIN, VIGIA and UFI-S
permitted the consolidation and improvement of an already existing institutional capacity within the Ministry of
Health. The selection of key personnel that was able to work closely and understood the mechanics not only of
projects and procedures within the health sector but also within other governmental institutions such as the
Ministry of Economics and other important public sector stakeholders was of great importance to achieve the
objectives of the program. A crisis can also serve as an opportunity for introducing important policy changes with



                                                         - 36 -

longer lasting consequences such as is the case of the introduction of the new reproductive health programs. The
evaluation of potential cost saving strategies may allow to introduce new practices that can reduce drastically cost
of important public health programs such as was the case of the savings obtained after the decision to purchase of
generic drugs for the anti-retroviral therapies.

Trust among major actors responding to crisis is crucial. Despite all the tensions and constraints that such major
crisis imposed on the government and the Bank, it is important to create an environment of mutual trust and
understanding from the beginning in order to facilitate the implementation of the program, the early detection of
obstacles and the proposition of feasible solutions that can be mutually agreed upon.

9. Partner comments on the performance of the Bank

9.1. Preparation
The extremely efficient and rapid response by the Bank's officers was a key contribution in support of the
governments' efforts to avoid the worst effects of the crisis in the health sector. Several identification and
preparation missions led to a project design that took advantage of the UFI-S in order to develop fast-track
negotiation processes and to carry out the implementation of the entire project.

9.2. Implementation
The flexibility shown by the Bank in order to make it possible some exceptions given the exceptional
circumstances that the country was facing (i.e. purchasing of vaccines through PAHO).

The government commends the creativeness in the design of the mechanisms (special accounts type "B") that
allowed the concurrent disbursement of funds of the same loan for the regular activities of the project (from which
the funds had been reallocated) and for the emergency related activities. The same advantages of the disbursement
mechanisms were found in the design of separate financial reports for the funds of the original project and the part
destined for the Emergencia related activities and their corresponding auditing processes.

A negative factor in launching the project were the delays in taking the necessary legal steps for the amendment to
be finally accepted and effective. Another negative aspect at the beginning of the implementation process was the
delay in the responses to the no objection requests and needed reports (i.e. environmental analysis) due to the
innovative nature of the project and the burden of the work load that representatives of the Bank faced vis-?-vis the
complexity of the operation and the highly complex circumstances within which the project was being developed.




                                                         - 37 -

- 38 -

