Docment of
The World Bank
Report No. 13935-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
JUNE 12, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Argentine Peso (A$)
Official Rate: US$1 = A$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March 15 to December 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AGN                 Auditorfa General de la Nacion
CIN                 Consejo Interuniversitario Nacional
(National Interuniversity Council)
CIS                 Comite Internacional de Seguimiento
(International Supervision Committee)
CNA                 Comisi6n Nacional de Acreditaci6n
(National Commision for Accreditation)
CONEAU              Comisi6n Nacional de Evaluaci6n y Acreditaci6n Universitaria
(National Commission of Evaluation and Accreditation)
CRUP                Consejo de Planificaci6n de Universidades Privadas
(Council of Private University Rectors)
CSU                 Consejo Superior de la Universidad
FEL                 Federal Education Law
FOMjEC              Fondo de Mejoramiento de la Calidad
(Fund for Enhancement of Educational Quality)
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
LIB                 Limited International Bidding
MCE                 Ministerio de Cultura y Educacion
(Ministry of Culture and Education)
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
OECD                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PMSIU               Programa de Mejoramiento del Sistema de Infornacion Universitaria
RIU                 Red de Informaci6n Universitaria
(Interuniversity Network)
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
SUP                 Secretarfa de Poifticas Universitarias
(Secretariat of University Policy)



ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENIS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .............................                                                 i
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER EDUCATION ... ......   1
A. Post-Adjustment Economy and Employment Needs ...............                                  1
B. Main Issues in the Higher Education Sector  ...................                               5
C   Government Strategy  .................................                                       8
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement and Lessons Leamed
from  Previous Bank Experience ...........................                                 10
HI. THEPFROJECT ....................13
A. Project Objectives .13
B. Project Description .13
C. Project Management and Implementation .18
D. Monitoring and Evaluation .19
MI.  PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION   ...................                                            22
A. Project Costs ......................................    22
B   Financing Plan  .....................................                                      24
C. Status of Preparation   .................................    25
D. Implementation Schedule ...............................    26
E. Procurement  ......................................    26
F. Disbursements and Accounts .............................                                    30
G. Audits  ..........................................                                          32
IV. BENEFS AND RISKS .................................  33
A. Benefits  .........................................    33
B. Risks ...........................................  33
C. Sustainability  ......................................    34
D. Poverty Category ....................................    34
E. Environmental Impact .................................    34
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............  35
A. Agreements Reached  .................................    35
B. Recommendation ....................................  37



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES:
Annex 1:    Data on the Higher Education Sector ....................... 39
Annex 2:    National Commission for University Evaluation and
Accreditation (CONEAU) ..........        .................... 43
Annex 3:    Fund for Enhancement of Education Quality (FOMEC) ....     ........ 47
Annex 4:    Institutional Organization of SUP and Location of
Project Implementation Unit .........     .................... 53
Annex 5:    Monitoring and Evaluation ...........      ................... 54
Annex 6:    Summary Cost Table . ................................ 63
Annex 7:    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  .... ........ 64
This report is based on the findings of activities and research financed by a grant from the
World Bank, Project Preparation Facility (PPF 233-0-AR) and carried out between May and
December 1994. An identification mission took place in January 1994, a preparation mission
in May 1994, and an appraisal mission in November 1994. Members of preparation and
appraisal missions carried out prior to and during this period are: William Experton (Iask
Manager, LAIHR); Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (ESP); Hideki Mori (LA3HR); and Jean-Claude
Martin, Huguette Haugades, Douglas Albrecht, Luis Secco, and Anita Artaza, consultants.
Leain-Hong Ding, Shahrzad Gohari, Karla McEvoy and Patty Villagomez (LAlHR) provided
assistance in the preparation of this report. The Department Director, Projects Adviser, and
Sector Division Chief are, respectively, Gobind T. Nankani, Orville Grimes, and Alain
Colliou.



-111-
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Argentine Republic
Implementing
Agency:                 Ministry of Culture and Education
Beneficiary:            Not applicable.
Poverty:                Not applicable.
Amount:                 US$165 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:         0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:         See paragraph 3.6 and Table 3.3.
Net Present Value:      Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 Report No. 13935-AR
Project
Identification
Number:                 AR-PA-34091






ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.   General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$, 1992)                                        $6,109.4
Area (million km2)                                                    2.8
Population Estimate (Millions)                                        32.3
Density (inhabitants/km2)                                             11.0
Urban Population                                                      87.0
B.   Basic Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                                           7.9
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                                   1.4
Total Fertility Rate                                                   2.8
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                                     25.7
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)
Men                                                            67.0
Women                                                          74.0
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 18 and over)                       5.0
Average Schooling of Adults (years)                                    8.5
C.   Basic Education
Enrollment Ratios (net):
Preschool (Age 3-5) (%)                                        39.0
Primary (Age 6-13) (%)                                         90.0
Secondary (Age 13-18) (%)                                      56.0
a     Higher Education
Higher education enrollment in 1992
(public universities)                                             699,203
Higher education graduates in 1992
(public universities)                                              32,387
Enrollment ratios (Age 20-25)                                          20
E.   Education Expenditure Data
Public education expenditure in 1994
(in millions of current pesos)                                      10.822
Public expenditure on education in 1994
(as % of total public expenditure)                                   14.47
Total public expenditure by education level (1994):
Primary and Secondary education                               77.2%
Higher education                                             22.8%
Total public education expenditure as % of GDP                      3.83%
Higher education expenditure as % of GDP                            0.91%






L ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER EDUCATION
A. Post-Adjustment Economy and Employment Needs
1.1       Since Argentina has now emerged from the economic crisis of the late 1980s
and has established a more solid base for sustainable development, the Government is
turning its attention to addressing the large social deficits that if unattended could slow
economic progress. Within the social sectors, the role of the education system in
supplying the human resources required for faster economic growth and successful
competition in global markets is crucial. As the economy shifts to more outward-looking
policies, and attempts to integrate itself into Mercosur and other international markets,
concern has heightened for developing a well-educated, highly-skilled and flexible labor
force which, given the relatively high wage level, will allow the country to compete in the
production of high value-added products and services.
1.2      In the next decade, two major trends will affect employment: (i) an expected
strong expansion of the labor force in Argentina (over two percent growth per year), due
to the growth of the working-age population which should exceed overall population
growth (reversing a tendency which has been predominant since World War II) and an
increasing participation of women (the current women's labor force participation level of
26 percent is low compared to countries with a similar level of development and the rest
of Latin America); and (ii) a dramatic shift in employment as a consequence of the
economic crisis and the restructuring and modernization of the economy. As a result,
tensions in the labor market are expected to remain high. Unemployment in May 1994
was 10.8 percent (1.4 million unemployed out of an active population of 13 million) and
has disproportionately affected young people and people with no education. Fifty percent
of the unemployed are less than 25 years old, and in October 1993 in Greater Buenos
Aires the unemployment level was 9.7 percent, but 11.1 percent for people without
instruction compared to 11.4 percent for those having completed the primary level, 8.1
percent secondary and 3.5 percent higher education.' Although the share of large
companies in total employment remains significant (15.5 percent of those employed are in
firms of over 100 employees, and 34 percent are in firms of between 6 and 100
employees) there is a steady trend toward rising employment in small-scale enterprises (50
percent), and self-employment in the informal sector. The manufacturing sectors are
declining, while services are employing a growing share (presently 65 percent) of total
employment. Finally, Argentinean industry is characterized by a steady growth of
productivity and profound sectoral changes in which competitive industries are booming
and those which were protected by trade barriers or were subsidized are declining.
1.3       As competition for jobs increases, the skill level and the mobility of the work
force become even more important: (i) in a labor market which is becoming more flexible
and competitive; (ii) for services which require a higher level of educational attainment
(services employ 80 percent of those having a university diploma, and half of service
sector employees have completed secondary education, compared with 27 percent in the
1. Encuesta de Hogares, INDEC, 1993.



manufacturing sector); and (iii) to increase productivity in the existing industries and to
favor the growth of more technological industries so that Argentina may remain
competitive by counterbalancing the effects of high labor costs. Compared with
neighboring countries, Argentina has the highest labor taxes and non-wage labor costs (48
percent compared to 38 percent in Brazil and 25 percent in Chile).
Education Sector
1.4       Until the mid-1970s, Argentina had one of Latin America's most developed
educational systems in terms of enrollment rates. Since 1980, there has been a dramatic
expansion in access to schooling. Argentina has nearly attained universal primary
education (primary education net enrollment ratio was 90 percent in 1991); secondary
school net enrollment rate is 56 percent and about 20 percent of the age group 20 to 25 is
in higher education.2 As a result, the Argentinean work force compares favorably relative
to other countries of the region. In 1993, 8.6 percent of the working-age population had a
higher education level, 27.1 percent secondary education, 54.9 percent a primary level of
education and 9.3 percent had no education. On the average, women have a higher
educational level than men.3
1.5       Argentina's population is less schooled, however, than those of countries with
similar income levels. For instance, in 1985, although the average schooling years of
Argentines over 25 years old was 6.6 (exceeding the LAC average of 4.4 years), Korea
and Taiwan averaged 7.9 and 7.0 years respectively.4 Moreover, as a consequence of
years of neglect and low and misdirected investment, the quality of the system has
deteriorated. In secondary education, students' lack of learning is particularly acute. A
1992 survey carried out in Buenos Aires shows that in mathematics, on a scale of 0 to 6,
80 percent of secondary students scored under 3, and 22 percent scored 0. In Spanish,
these proportions were 49 percent and 15 percent respectively. A 1993 nationwide survey
showed that 40 percent of the students who completed secondary education did not read
and write correctly. Hgher education's quality is declining as well, hampering Argentina's
ability to compete internationally. Compared to Korea, Argentina's higher education
system produces one-fourth fewer graduates per million inhabitants. The number of
graduates is stagnating (33,000), and in some disciplines the situation is catastrophic: in
1993 only 40 students received a Master's degree in mathematics, 75 in physics, 65 in
biology and 193 in computer sciences.
2. Censo de Poblaci6n, 1991.
3. INDEC, Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, May 1993.
4. R. Barro and J. Lee, "International Comparisons of Educational Attainment." World Bank, Washington, DC,
1993.



-3 -
Higher Education
1.6       From 1981 to 1991, enrollment in higher education grew at an average rate of
7.4 percent, particularly after the 1984 reform which provided open admission to all
secondary school graduates and allowed some disciplines (mainly humanities), to reopen
as a result of the democratization process (see Annex L Graph 1). More recently, there
has been a decrease of new entrants into national universities due essentially to
underinvestment and low quality at the secondary level. Argentina's higher education
sector currently has about 1.1 million students. This number is an approximation because
statistics on enrollment provided by higher education institutions do not distinguish
between active and non-active students. As part of the Education Ministry's efforts to
improve planning mechanisms, a census was undertaken in September 1994; first results
revealed that 615,796 students are enrolled in national universities.
1.7       The higher education sector consists of 75 universities (33 national, 5
provincial and 37 private); about 1,000 teacher training institutes; and about 500 technical
institutes. While non-university institutions have increased their combined share (from 19
percent to 24 percent), more than three-quarters of students are enrolled in universities.
Enrollment in the private sector represents a small share (13 percent) compared to
neighboring countries (Brazil 60 percent, Paraguay 40 percent, Chile 30 percent, Ecuador
26 percent). Enrollment in private universities has been increasing, from 81,000 in 1983
to 101,000 students in 1992, whereas at national universities it has more than doubled,
from 338,000 to 699,000 students. Since the 1993 decree opening higher education to
private initiatives, however, 15 new private institutions have been created and enrollment
in public universities is stagnating.
1.8       During the past decade, the relative importance of academic disciplines in
public universities has changed dramatically. Natural sciences and engineering declined
significantly (in total enrollment from 46 percent in 1982 to 36 percent in 1992, and
among new entrants from 49 to 33 percent), while the social sciences are increasing their
share (in total enrollment from 31 to 36 percent, and among new entrants from 29 percent
to 40 percent). The relative shares of medical sciences (14.6 percent of enrollment and
14.1 percent of new entrants) and humanities (respectively 12.9 percent and 13.1 percent)
are more stable (see Annex I).
1.9       Among national universities, eight major universities account for 80 percent of
total enrollment and 85 percent of graduates. While the average size of national
universities is about 24,000 students, the number of students at each university varies
considerably, from 869 at the UniversidadNacional de Quilmes to 169,540 at the
Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires which represents 24 percent of enrollment and 34
percent of graduates.' The disparities are even larger at the post-graduate level. This
dispersion can be attributed to two factors: disparities between provinces and the
concentration of population and economic activities in the metropolitan areas of Buenos



- 4 -
Aires; and government policy to establish at least one national university in each province
regardless of population size (see Annex I, Table 1).
1.10      There is little reliable information on the socioeconomic background of
students. However, the fact that more than 45 percent of the students' parents have less
than secondary education shows the intergenerational progress. The Argentine university
system is fairly gender-neutral. In public universities there are significantly more women
students, new entrants and graduates (about 56 percent). On the other hand, the system
appears to be economically inequitable. According to the 1994 census, 22 percent of
students come from private secondary schools. Tuition-free higher education does not
provide needy students with financial assistance for living expenses or purchase of learning
materials. As a result, a significant proportion of students are forced to take employment,
and proceed with part-time enrollment. More than half of the students have a job, 24
percent depend fully on this job for their living expenses, 29 percent mix resources from
their parents and from their job. Only 0.3 percent are fully supported by a scholarship and
1.6 percent benefit from scholarships and resources from their parents.
1.11      During the last decade, the number of teaching positions has almost paralleled
enrollment growth, doubling during the past decade from a little less than 53,000 in 1982
to over 101,000 in 1992. This makes the student/teacher ratio less than 7. However,
considering the high percentage of part-time (67.4 percent) and half-time (21.2 percent)
positions, the full-time equivalent ratio is estimated to be in the neighborhood of 13, a
number which is closer to international standards. There are disparities among
universities: the students/full-time equivalent teaching staff ratio tends to exceed 25 in the
largest and most attractive universities, and to be lower in smaller universities, 6-8 on the
average.
1.12      While the administration of primary and secondary education has been
transferred to the provinces (in 1978 and 1992, respectively), the Ministry of Culture and
Education (MCE) now has more significant responsibilities in higher education. A
Secretariat for University Policies (Secretaria de Politicas Universitarias - SUP) was
created in March 1993 (Decree 506/93). The major functions of SUP are to: (i) prepare
policies for the development of universities and ensure that laws, regulations and norms
are applied; (ii) define policies to assess the creation or the structural modification of
curricula, programs or status and to accredit new institutions in the public and private
sector; and (iii) design policies and instruments to assess and oversee the university
system. Universities are autonomous institutions run by an elected council (Consejo
Superior de la Universidad - CSU) consisting of representatives from faculty,
administrative staff and students. Rectors are elected by an assembly comprised of the
deans and faculty council for a period of three or four years. A National University
Council (Consejo Interuniversitario Nacional - CIN) consists of representatives from
national universities, and has been advising the MCE on education policy.
5. Figures are as of 1992, except graduates that are as of 1991. Based on data provided by Ministry of Culture and
Education.



1.13         The higher education system is almost entirely publicly financed.
Students pay no tuition fees and external resources are limited (estimated to represent 8
percent of total resources on average). In 1994 consolidated public expenditure on higher
education accounted for 0.91 percent of GDP and 22.8 percent of the consolidated budget
for education. Higher education, like other sectors, was severely hit by the economic
crisis and hyperinflation. The higher education budget in real terms peaked in 1987, and
had been on the decline until 1992 (990 million pesos). As a consequence, per-student
public expenditure dropped sharply from US$2,800 in 1983 to the very low level of
US$1,450 per student in 1992 (in Brazil, Chile, and Mexico it ranges from US$1,600 to
US$1,800). With the improvement of federal public finance this tendency has been
reversed and per student public expenditure rose to 2.267 in 1994 (the budget was
US$1,243 million in 1993, US$1,395 million in 1994 and US$1,501 million in 1995).
However, this budget increase has been essentially absorbed by salary increases. At the
university level this situation has led to budgets in which on the average 97 percent is
absorbed by salaries and operating expenses, leaving only 3 percent available for
investment and development. (Annex I, Graph 2).
B. Main Issues in the Higher Education Sector
Institutional Problems of Sector Management
1.14      The newly-created SUP does not yet have the full technical capacity to
coordinate reform implementation, guide budget allocations, evaluate institutional
performance and disseminate information for students and professors. Since its
creation in March 1993, SUP has recruited 190 staff and filled all the positions in its
organizational chart. However, the new staff needs training and technical assistance to
acquire necessary planning and management tools.
1.15      Lack of reliable information hampers planning and management
capacity. Until 1994, even basic information such as enrollment, number of entrants and
graduates, composition of students by discipline and composition of staff was not
available. Information is generally limited to that provided by national universities. As a
result: (i) very little information is available on private universities and on non-university
education; (ii) data are not collected regularly on a homogeneous basis; and (iii) the
quality of data is not sufficient to be used for planning activities and more specifically, for
allocation of resources or evaluation of output. For instance, no distinction between active
and non-active students is made and no data are available on inputs such as teaching
hours, student cost, social origin of the student population, or demand for higher
education.
1.16      In the absence of accreditation and evaluation mechanisms there is little
incentive for quality improvement. Before 1994, no programs or institutions (except on
an experimental basis) were subject to any kind of formal evaluation. This does not allow
for regular review and revision of existing curricula and methods of delivery, which
consequently might remain unchanged for decades. In the future, this would limit the
validity of any resource allocation system based on quality. Furthermore, there is no



accreditation system for creating a new program or institution. Recently, a number of new
programs, particularly at graduate levels, have been created in almost all the national
universities without adequate control, leading to duplication in some disciplines and
shortages in others. In addition, some new programs have been created without the
resources needed (qualified instructors, basic research equipment, or adequate budget) to
ensure minimum standards of quality. At the same time, once a program is established, it
is not uncommon for it to remain even if there are no students. There is also a vacuum in
the legislation for the newly-created private higher education institutions.
1.17          The higher education budget is inefficiently allocated, and largely
beyond the control of the MCE. Since the creation of SUP, about eight percent of the
total budget has been allocated to implement policies at the national level. The remaining
92 percent is still distributed between national universities through Congressional debate,
which typically does not take into account data reflecting the specific situation of each
university. There are no instruments or criteria on which decision-makers could rely to
reorient the system toward more effective training, correct disparities, sanction poor
performers or take into account sector-specific objectives in research or pedagogic
enhancement. Consequently, disparities among institutions for the same kind of training
are substantial, which leads to waste and inadequate distribution of resources, undermines
efforts for improved management, and creates a disincentive for professors and students to
perform well.
1.18          In most universities, governance mechanisms and management
systems lack flexibility and the capacity to be efficient and adapt to a changing
environment. On the one hand, decision-making in the Superior Council of the
University (Consejo Superior de Universidad) is highly politicized and key managerial
decisions are frequently disrupted by interest groups or ideological positions. In this often
confrontational atmosphere, students who can get the majority of votes are often the
strongest. On the other hand, many universities lack sufficient administrative tools and
qualified personnel to produce timely and adequate information to make the managerial
process more transparent. In generaL there are no clear objectives, development plans, or
analytical allocation of resources between the different departments and no measurement
of quality or efficiency. In addition, very few universities are able to mobilize external
resources through tuition, sale of technology or other services, or joint ventures with
private firms. Furthermore, since autonomy is only partial and the salary scale is
standardized across the system, before the 1995 budget law universities were unable to
provide incentives to promote efficiency among their staffs.
Efficiency Issues
1.19          The internal efficiency of national universities is low and is declining.
Available data indicate that only 19 percent of entrants actually graduate. In recent years
the graduate/enrollment ratio has been below five percent (compared to Brazil, Chile or
Mexico where the graduate/enrollment ratio ranges from 12 to 15 percent). This



very low efficiency rate inflates the cost of producing a graduate to an estimated level of
US$30,000. During the past decade the number of entrants and enrollment increased (at
about 11 percent a year) while the increase in number of graduates nearly stagnated from
27,000 in 1981 to 32,000 in 1991; as a consequence the graduate enrollment ratio
dropped from eight percent to five percent (see Annex I). About 55 percent of the
students take less than 3 credits a year when they would need 4 or 5 for a normal duration
of their study. The tendency to prolong the duration of study as well as to perpetuate low
graduation rates is stronger among natural science and engineering disciplines and in
smaller universities (see Annex 1, Table 4).
1.20      There are several causes of low internal efficiency. First, because of open
access and low cost, a great proportion of secondary school graduates who are not
motivated or well-prepared to enter higher education enroll in universities and drop out or
repeat during the first year. Second, excessively rigid and uniform undergraduate course
design, combined with inadequate curricula and teaching methods, do not meet the
expectations of students. Third, teaching methods are further adversely affected by
insufficient complementary resources including libraries, computers and technical
equipment in laboratories or classrooms for practical work. Fourth, there are few financial
or academic constraints to taking a light course load every year. Consequently, students
tend to prolong their studies and a significant proportion of students have a full-time job
during the day and take only night courses at the university. The last census revealed that
about 54 percent of students have a job (30 percent having a full time job), and that 35
percent of students study less than 20 hours a week
Quality Issues
1.21      In most universities the composition and qualification of faculty is
insufflicient to ensure good quality teaching. During the past periods of dictatorship,
Argentinean universities lost a number of scholars and have been unable to renew the pool
of qualified professors. As a result, the qualifications of teaching staff are very low, only
15 percent of professors possessing a graduate degree. Poor compensation makes it
extremely difficult to recruit and retain adequately qualified personnel in the system.
Teaching staff, who are paid on a single public salary scale, are poorly compensated. Full-
time professors on the average earn US$2,000 a month and teaching assistants, US$1,200.
Furthermore, only 11 percent of the teaching staff consists of full-time professors, and the
majority of teaching is carried out by teaching assistants or part-time professors. Because
of low salaries, most staff undertake multiple jobs and often are not available to students
outside the classroom, nor do they have time to undertake research. The lack of
appropriate performance standards and evaluation methods does not provide incentives for
quality improvement.
1.22          The present level of physical resources is insufficient to provide the
university students with an adequate learning environment. The university system
has been attempting to cope with decreasing financial resources from the government by
cutting back on capital investment. Capital investment has been as low as 3 percent of
total expenditures on education in recent years. As a result, learning and research



materials and equipment have deteriorated and are a major constraint on improvement.
Open-access libraries are insufficient and the number of volumes per student is low. Most
of the existing technical equipment in laboratories is obsolete and teaching equipment is
insufficient. The situation is particularly severe in the natural science and engineering
fields, in which maintenance and constant renovation of equipment are necessary to keep
up with progress in these disciplines. In general, buildings and equipment are insufficiently
maintained. In some universities, several construction projects have not been completed
because of lack of funding, and buildings have been left half-finished for a number of
years.
1.23          In an environment in which universities do not have to compete for
external resources, there is little incentive for them to diversify or introduce new
programs which meet the needs of the economy. Except in very specific or vocational-
oriented programs such as health, most universities have little interaction with the labor
market. In general, there is no involvement of employers in program design or university
management, there is no career counseling within universities, and the level of contracted
activities with industry, be it for research, problem solving, or training, is very low. Little
information is available to assess external efficiency, because of the absence of labor
market or tracer studies of university graduates. Limited data on the labor market suggest
unemployment among university graduates is lower than the general population (3.7
percent compared to 10.8 percent for the total population in 1994), probably because of
the small number graduating every year and the strong demand of the economy for
qualified people. This does not necessarily mean that those graduates correspond to the
expectations of enterprises or that higher education contributes sufficiently to the country's
ability in the long run to compete in international markets.
C. Government Strategy
Education Sector Strategy
1.24      To address the above issues, the Government has assigned high priority to the
education sector with the aim of improving the coverage, quality and efficiency as well as
the equity of education. The transfer of responsibility for secondary education to the
provinces in 1992 (Law 24.049, January 1992) has changed the roles of the federal and
the provincial governments, and has further stimulated the initiation of educational
reforms. The first step in this strategy for reforming the educational sector was the
passage of the comprehensive Federal Education Law (FEL, Law 24.195, April 1993)
which sets out the objectives, structure, administration and financing mechanisms of the
education system. More specifically, the FEL: (i) guarantees the right of Argentines to
have access to education at all levels and establishes the principle of free basic education
while allowing universities to supplement their publicly financed budget through other
revenue sources; (ii) defines the responsibilities for providing educational services:
provinces have the responsibility to finance and administer all pre-university education
while the federal government provides policy guidance, establishes minimum curricular
content at all levels and finances universities; (iii) defines the role of the private sector and
its rights and obligations in providing educational services; (iv) establishes a new structure



-9-
for the education system which increases compulsory education from seven to 10 years
(one year of preschool and nine years of general basic education), reducing the secondary
school cycle to three years and reorienting it to a new curriculum integrating knowledge in
four cluster areas (humanistic, social, scientific and technical); (v) for higher education,
defines the respective roles of teacher training and technical institutes and universities; and
(vi) stresses the importance of public investment in education, requiring that education
budgets be either doubled gradually with an annual increase of 20 percent starting in 1993,
or be increased by 50 percent as a share of GDP - i.e., from four percent to six percent of
GDP - whichever results in a larger increase in the education budget.
Higher Education Strategy
1.25      In higher education the Government strategy is to: (i) improve the legal and
regulatory environment specifically for the creation of new institutions and programs in
the private and public sectors, for university management and for quality evaluation; (ii)
create incentives and support the initiatives and investments which could increase the
efficiency and quality of universities; and (iii) improve the allocation of resources within
universities and support the initiatives to diversify resources. A Higher Education Policy
Letter which the Bank has received summarizes this strategy.
1.26      As part of this strategy, SUP has presented to Congress a Higher Education
Law which: (i) specifies the conditions for students to gain access to higher education; (ii)
assigns to the provinces the responsibility for non-university education (teacher training
and technical institutes) and to the federal level the responsibility for universities; (iii)
defines the objectives of higher education and the respective roles of each kind of
institution, establishing a common legal framework for private and public institutions,
including evaluation and accreditation; (iv) provides universities with full autonomy for
their administration, internal resource allocation (including the creation of new programs
and curriculum design), staff management, and conditions of student access, thus opening
up the possibility for universities to diversify their resources; (v) improves the governance
of higher education institutions, allowing more participation (a minimum of 50 percent) by
teaching staff in elected boards and limiting students' right to vote to active students; and
(vi) defines the roles of the federal government (for planning, financing and monitoring)
and of the various consultative agencies (CIN, Consejo Interuniversitario Nacional;
CRUP, Consejo de Rectores de Universidades Privadas; and Regional Councils for
University Planning, Consejos de Planificacion Universitaria Regional). This law was
adopted by the Chamber of Deputies on June 7, 1995. and is expected to be approved in
1995. A final vote of the Senate is expected shortly, which will enact the law.
1.27      Since its creation in March 1993, SUP has carried out measures which
facilitate implementation of the higher education law, once passed: (i) as a first step to test
the evaluation and accreditation process, nine universities and five post-graduate programs
have been evaluated; (ii) an incentive system for teaching staff to undertake research was
implemented for the first time in FY94 (11,500 professors have benefited, with a budget of
US$42 million) and is being pursued in FY95 (with a budget of US$70 million); (iii) in
1994 a new student loan scheme was put in place which is managed by a commercial Bank



- 10-
instead of a Governmental institution, and the budget (US$10 million) was doubled in
1994; 1,300 students benefited from this program; (iv) most of the barriers to the creation
of private higher education institutions were removed in 1993 by a decree (No. 2330),
leading to the creation during the same year of 15 new institutions in addition to the
existing 21; (v) initiatives have been taken in collaboration with the CIN to improve the
curriculum (as a first step, a curriculum reform of engineering studies is under preparation
which will reduce the duration of studies from six to five years and make the content more
consistent from one university to another); (vi) the 1995 Budget law decentralizes to each
university the decision of fixing the salary levels of their staff, (vii) a university
management information system has been initiated by a May 1993 decree (Programa de
Mejoramiento del Sistema de Informaci6n Universitaria - PMSlU), which has
significantly expanded the availability of key sectoral information and includes a student
census launched in September 1994, as well as a database on university personnel created
in June 1994; and (viii) beginning in FY94 a share of the universities' budget is being
allocated for investment through competitive mechanisms and through a formula which
rationalizes allocations (equivalent to 1.57 percent of the total budget or about 40 percent
of the universities' investment budget).
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned from Previous Bank
Experience
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.28     Bank involvement in the proposed project fully supports the overall country
assistance strategy which was discussed at the Board on May 4, 1995: to sustain
economic growth, to complete the reform of the state, enhance the competitiveness of the
Argentine economy, reduce poverty, and improve the quality of human resource
investment. The proposed project aims to: (i) improve the quality and efficiency of a
sector which is key to maintaining competitiveness in an outward-oriented economy; (ii)
complement the reform process of the education sector (supported for primary and
secondary education by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Bank,
respectively) by rationalizing higher education spending and helping to channel more
resources to basic and secondary education; and (iii) strengthen the greatly weakened
institutional base and helping the government to overcome difficulties of introducing
reforms in a highly complex sector. This project will assure the continuation and
consolidation of initiatives and reforms already undertaken by the Argentinean
Government. Furthermore, the project will establish permanent mechanisms which will
ensure sustainable improvement of the higher education system.
Lessons Learned
1.29     The project incorporates lessons learned in recent lending operations in
Argentina's social sectors, including the Social Sector Management Technical
Assistance Loan (Ln. 2985-AR, approved in 1989) the Maternal and Child Health and
Nutrition Project (Ln. 3643-AR, approved in 1993), and Decentralization and
Improvement of Secondary Education Project (Ln. 3794-AR, approved in 1994). The



- 11 -
factors affecting projects in Argentina are essentially: (i) institutional weaknesses; (ii) lack
of political commitment to fulfill the objectives of the project; and (iii) implementation
delays caused by unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, common in social sectors in which
investment projects are relatively new. The case of Argentina confirms lessons learned
from Bank projects in the education sector: (i) institution - building should remain a
central goal of Bank assistance; (ii) success depends on effective policy dialogue and
sound implementation procedures; (iii) experience with project implementation confirms
the advantage of simple projects with realistic time schedules and appropriate covenants;
and (iv) the project should include appropriate monitoring and evaluation, so that progress
toward goals can be assessed.
1.30      Other lessons of experience have been identified in higher education projects.
More specifically: (i) the failure to understand the complex, unique and autonomous
nature of universities and the potential impact of their internal politics on the project; (ii)
the need to implement changes gradually by reaching consensus on reforms, creating a
more competitive environment at the same time by providing incentives for improvement;
and (iii) an insufficient assessment of the links with the labor market due to the absence of
comprehensive labor market data. The Argentinean higher education reforms are in line
with the sector policy reforms as recommended in the Bank's policy paper on Higher
Education: The Lessons of Experience (Development in Practice, World Bank, May
1994) and include measures to: (i) allocate public resources to higher education
transparently and in ways that strengthen quality and increase efficiency; (ii) introduce
cost-sharing and other financial diversification measures; (iii) establish a positive
environment for private institutions; (iv) provide autonomy for higher education
institutions in how they raise and use resources and determine student intake; and (v)
increase the quality of training and research by increased teaching inputs, teacher training,
and mechanisms to evaluate and monitor the quality of training and research outputs. In
addition, the design of the project takes account of the experience of similar higher
education projects in Indonesia, Romania, and Tunisia, as well as the implementation of
the Second Science Research and Training Project (Ln. 3269-BR) in Brazil.
1.31      The following lessons have been incorporated into the proposed project at the
initial phase of its design: (i) Project Ownership: The sense of project ownership in SUP is
strong because the scope and content of the proposed project fully support its policy
orientations and reflect its initial proposal. Considerable attention was paid during the
preparation process to extending this sense of ownership to universities and the academic
community: (a) there has been a strong participation of professors and deans in the various
studies and consultative committees; (b) universities have volunteered to participate in the
evaluation process; and (c) each component of the project was agreed with the CIN and at
appraisal the final project was discussed with all the rectors; (ii) Project Design: Project
design emphasizes a greater reliance on incentive instruments to implement policies. The
experience of OECD countries shows that the behavior of autonomous universities can be
influenced most effectively by improving the availability of information and modifying the
way resources are allocated. Therefore, the proposed project relies heavily on two
instruments: (a) an information and evaluation system that provides transparent and
objective information to the different actors - students, managers and teachers; and (b) an



- 12 -
allocation system which provides incentives for efficiency, thus creating a more
competitive environment; (iii) Institutional Weakness and Project Implementation: From
the earliest stage, the preparation process has aimed for the creation of a strong
institutional base backed by the borrower's full cooperation and involvement. The PPF
approved for project preparation (see also para 3.7) has largely contributed to the
strengthening of SUP technical capacities, helping it to bridge the time necessary for SUP
to recruit staff. In implementing the PPF the staff of the PPU has gained considerable
experience in Bank procedures (especially procurement, disbursements, and the
management of a Special Account). To ensure continuity the same PPU will be
transformed into a Project Implementation Unit located within SUP. In addition, most of
the tasks included in the first component aimed at institutional strengthening have been
initiated during the preparation process. Finally, to facilitate project implementation and
disbursement, much attention was given to the simplification of project design.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1         The principal objective of the project is to establish a
competitive environment for the improvement of higher education and to
provide, through a transparent funding mechanism, the appropriate incentives
for continuous educational efficiency gains and quality enhancement. The
project would support the implementation of legal, management and
administrative reforms that SUP has recently initiated in the university system.
B. Project Description
2.2         To achieve the above objectives, the project would have two
components:
(a) the institutional strengthening of SUP in the areas of planning and
management, information systems and budgetary resource allocation, as well
as the creation and support of a national evaluation and accreditation
mechanism (Comisi6n Nacional de Evaluaci6n y Acreditaci6n Universitaria -
CONFlAu).
(b) the Fund for Enhancement of Educational Quality (Fondo de
Mejoramiento de la Calidad, FOMEC) which would provide incentives to
universities, through a competitive and transparent process, to promote: (a) in
basic sciences and engineering, quality and efficiency improvements at the
graduate and undergraduate levels, through technical assistance for curriculum
and program changes, the support of visiting professors, the provision of
scholarships and the financing of laboratories, teaching equipment and
libraries; and (b) in all disciplines, quality improvement at the graduate level
through the provision of scholarships for teaching staff and students at the
graduate level, visiting professors and the renovation of libraries.
Institutional Strengthening Component
2.3         The Improvement of the Planning and Management Capacity
of SUP (US$2.2 million). This component would finance the following base
cost measures: (i) the training of 50 staff members each year locally and
overseas study tours for a total of 50 persons for the duration of the project
have been programmed; (ii) four studies to diagnose, design and reorganize the
private sector monitoring system, the filing system, the accountancy system,
and the legal services; (iii) the technical assistance (50 specialist months for
the duration of the project) to prepare and supervise the training program and
to provide expertise in university planning; (iv) a documentation center
including the rehabilitation of space, books and periodicals on higher
education, and office equipment; (v) the rehabilitation of 50 offices including



- 14 -
furniture and office technology; and (vi) the organization of seminars on
university management.
2.4          National Commission for University Evaluation and
Accreditation - CONFAV)(base cost US$10.2 million). The project would
support the establishment and the operating cost of CONEAU to: (i) promote
the process of self-evaluation by public and private universities; (ii) consolidate
and extend the external evaluation of the universities; and (iii) accredit the
undergraduate programs of public interest (such as medicine and law), and
graduate studies in all disciplines. This accreditation is necessary for
accessing the funds provided through FOMEC (see para. 2.12 below).
CONEAU expects to process about 950 demands for accreditation of graduate
programs, to evaluate externally 75 university programs, to train 130
evaluators, to prepare and publish 16 manuals for evaluation for the duration
of the project, and to organize one seminar each year. The CONEAU would
be established by decree as a condition of effectiveness. The CNA
(Commission for Accreditation of Graduate Programs) was established as a
temporary institution for the time necessary to pass the Decree in order to start
up the accreditation process.
2.5           The institutional structure of CONEAU is composed of: (i) a
National Commission for Evaluation and Accreditation, composed of 13
members of different origins to guarantee its independence (five will be
designated by the CIN, three by the Council of Private University Rectors,
three by the Congress, one by the National Academy of Education and one by
the Ministry of Culture and Education); (ii) peer review committees made up
of six Argentines and two foreigners for each of the eleven disciplines;' (iii)
an executive director supported by three departments of Evaluation and
Accreditation, Institutional Development, and Administration. The staff will
consist of 24 people, of which five would be transferred from SUP. The
salaries of the permanent staff will be supported by counterpart funding.
2.6          The methodologies for self- and external evaluations of the
universities, and the framework for accreditation of the postgraduate courses
are already developed. These methodologies are based on the experience of
the evaluation of nine universities as well as the accreditation of four graduate
programs. Further steps include: (i) the formal establishment of CONEAU by
enabling decrees; (ii) the appointment of the Executive-Director and the
designation of the members of CONEAU; (iii) the establishment of a
committee in each of the 11 disciplines; (iv) the publication and dissemination
of CONEAU procedures to universities and professors; and (v) the evaluation
1.    Agriculture, veterinary medicine, and forestry; azhitectue, environment, and urban and
regional development; basic sciences; philosophy, litenture and art; engineering, tochnolgy and
informatics; law and international relations; health; social ciences; education and psychology; land,
watr and atmosphere; and economics and public and privat sdministmtion.



- 15 -
in 1995 of 20 graduate programs. (For a more detailed description of
CONEAU, see Annex 2).
2.7         Information and University Budget Allocation System for
SUP Sistema de Iqfonnacion y Asignacion de Recursos (SLAR) (base cost
US$7 million). The project would support the design and use of a
system-wide technologically modem management information and statistical
data system that would integrate the various modules (such as educational
statistics, financial information, physical inventory, and human resource
management) needed in decision-making by SUP management. SIAR would
also provide adequate data and system compatibility to link up with the
statistical systems of different universities. The statistical data provided by
universities is processed in SUP by the Directorate for Information and
Statistics, which would include 20 staff. This component would finance for
SUP and the universities the following: (i) computer equipment, printers and
software (50 servers and 635 workstations); and (ii) training for SUP and
university staff (1200 hours of training for the duration of the project).
2.8         A new objective method of allocating budgets between
universities is being developed and would be adopted during the
implementation period of the project. The formula would take into account
the unit cost per student in each discipline as well as efficiency and equity
considerations, in addition to university size. As a first test, a formula based
on active students and efficiency indicators has been applied to 1.57 percent of
the FY94 university budget. During project implementation, the allocation
system will be improved and gradually applied to the incremental part of the
budget, with the objective of reaching 50 percent of the budget by 1999.
2.9         A methodology is being developed to measure the economic cost
of university operations, which would be necessary to finalize the proposed
allocation formula. An operational manual would be developed that would
elaborate on the definition and classification of the variables of cost and would
describe institutional mechanisms for implementing the methodology.
Technical assistance would be provided by SUP to universities for
determination of their costs. The project would essentially finance technical
assistance and studies to conduct simulations to test the distributive effects
-among universities-- of the adoption of altemative allocation formulas,
measure cost in each discipline, and assess the impact of the new allocation
system on efficiency. In addition the studies in 1997 and at the end of the
project will be financed to measure the impact of the project on quality.
2.10        Inter-university Network Red de Informacion Universitaria
(RIU) (base cost US$1.8 million). The project would finance the
development of a network system for establishing scientific communication and
technical data links with accepted international standards, and for exchanging
library information between the departments and libraries of different



- 16 -
universities. SUP has already invested US$2.95 million to create this
network. An agreement has been signed between SUP and the participating
universities which specifies that they will provide the staff to operate and
maintain the system, and that they will support its operating costs during at
least three years except for the six first months of operation. The universities
of Buenos Aires, La Plata, Cordoba and Cuyo would constitute the high-speed
central network on which SUP would gradually be connected to the 29 other
universities. The network is expected to be fully operational by the end of
1995. The project would finance: (i) the equipment and connections for the
universities of the central network as well as for the other users; (ii) the
training of the staff in charge of operating and maintaining the network; and
(iii) the operating cost of the network during the first six months.
FOMEC
2.11         FOMEC is a policy instrument of SUP to finance quality and
efficiency improvement in universities through competitive and transparent
selection procedures. FOMEC was established on March 23, 1995, by
decree No. 408, as a permanent instrument. Its resources, originally
supported through Bank financing, would be gradually replaced by
federal, provincial or other resources. SUP will allocate to FOMEC US$70
million, representing the share of the FY95 budget devoted to the incentive
program for teaching staff to undertake research. The objective is to gradually
increase this base of annual national funding by US$60 million at the end of
the project in 2001. All grants which would be provided for the costs of
fellowships, visiting professors, laboratory or teaching equipment,
rehabilitation of libraries or books would be awarded on a competitive basis
through proposals submitted by universities to FOMEC and evaluated and
selected by Committees. FOMEC would allocate grants to public universities.
A standard subproject agreement will be signed before loan effectiveness
between SUP and the universities which would be funded by FOMEC
Operating procedures for FOMEC, together with eligibility and selection
criteria, are summarized in Annex 3.
2.12         Within the project, FOMEC would increase quality and
efficiency in three major respects: (i) at undergraduate and graduate levels in
basic sciences and engineering; and (ii) at graduate level in all other
disciplines. The size of FOMEC has been determined through an assessment
of the needs in each discipline.2 FOMEC would finance only 40 percent of
the potential needs in order to ensure a satisfactory level of competition among
2. During the preparation process seven studies in basic sciences and engineering were
financed by the PPF to identify, in each discipline, the potential for development, the quality
issues and the needs for training and equipment. In addition a specific study on graduates
progmams has been realized in all disciplines. The conclusions of those studies have been
assessed by scientific committees in all disciplines.



- 17 -
universities as well as a sufficient impact; and (iii) the capacity of universities
to provide counterpart funding (universities are investing about US$75 million
a year from government budget allocations). In coordination with CONEAU,
FOMEC would progressively contribute to restructuring and increasing the
efficiency of the graduate level in the Argentinean higher education system,
creating in each discipline a limited number of high quality programs
supported by a critical mass of well-trained staff with state of the art
equipment. These units would serve as models and centers of excellence in
the higher education system. On the whole, about 200 are expected to be
selected out of a total of 767 existing graduate programs (in all disciplines) and
would be distributed among institutions. Undergraduate programs in science
and engineering would be financed only when the necessary faculty upgrading
and curriculum changes have taken place. The centers of excellence would
serve as resource centers for faculty training and curriculum development. A
total of 19,700 students are studying in graduate programs, of which about
one-third are part-time assistant professors in public universities. The potential
demand for graduate courses is estimated to be about 10,000, of which 4,700
are in basic sciences and engineering and 5,300 in other disciplines.
2.13        FOMEC organizational structure and management (base cost
US$5.4 million). FOMEC is a semi-autonomous body within SUP. It is
principally composed of: (a) an Executive Council of five members; (b) an
Executive Directorate (ED) supervising three Departments in academic,
administrative and programming areas; (c) two Advisory Committees (AC) for
each main orientation of FOMEC; (d) Peer Review Committees constituted on
an ad hoc basis in six major disciplines; and (e) an International Supervision
Committee (Comite Internacional de Seguimiento - CIS). The organizational
structure and functions of FOMEC are set forth in the Operation Manual of
FOMEC, which was agreed during negotiations. The executive structure
would employ 18 staff (of which eight are support staff) who will be assigned
to SUP. Advisory committees, Peer Review Committees and the Intemational
Supervision Committee consist of consultants paid on a day to day basis.
FOMEC allocation process has three stages: (i) the Academic and
Administrative Coordination Departments verify that subprojects meet the
eligibility criteria; (ii) subprojects are ranked by the Advisory Committees,
based on priority criteria with the assistance of the peer review committees for
the academic assessment; and (iii) the Executive Council makes a decision on
financing. The project would finance all the recurrent costs (including salaries
of permanent staff) during the first year of implementation, and afterward only
the salaries of consultants participating in the Committees, plus incremental
operating expenditures and office technology. (see Annex 3 for a more detailed
description of FOMEC).
2.14        Basic Sciences and Engineering program (base cost US$164.5
million). In basic sciences (biology, physics, computer sciences, mathematics
and chemistry) and engineering FOMEC would provide resources to improve



- 18 -
the quality of the academic program as a whole, linldng the provision of inputs
such as visiting professors, scholarships and training, laboratory and teaching
equipments or rehabilitation of libraies to curriculum changes and efficiency
improvements (for instance, engineering studies will be reduced from six to
five years and the curriculum redesigned to take into account the evolution of
labor market and technological changes). While universities may present
subprojects that involve only one aspect of quality improvement, priority
would be accorded to the more integrated subprojects encompassing all aspects
of the quality improvement in a particular discipline. The average size of a
university proposal would be between US$100,000 and US$1 million.
2.15        The distribution among various disciplines has been estimated to
be approximately 12 percent for biology, 15 percent for physics, 9 percent for
computer sciences, 6 percent for mathematics, 12 percent for chemistry, 36
percent for engineering and 10 percent for agricultural engineering. This
program would finance about: (i) 1,200 scholarships, of which 32 percent
would be at the doctorate level and 68 percent at the graduate level (in
addition, in mathematics about 100 undergraduate scholarships will be
provided); 87 percent to study in Argentina and 13 percent in a foreign
country through twinning arrangements between universities; 31 percent for
students; and 69 percent for professors (under the age of 35); (ii) 376 months
of foreign visiting professors; (iii) 950 standard laboratory equipment packages
at the undergraduate level and 150 at the graduate level; and (iv) 2,500 months
for trainees in Argentina and 300 in foreign countries.
2.16        Humanities, Social Sciences, and Health Sciences graduate
education programs (base cost US$73.9 million). In these disciplines, the
objectives of FOMEC would be to improve the quality of the teaching staff by
consolidating graduate programs and creating an environment conducive to
research essentially through the provision of scholarships, the rehabilitation of
libraries and visiting professors. As in the programs for basic sciences and
engineering, only graduate programs which have been accredited by CONEAU
can gain access to FOMEC. The extent of the support available through the
project would depend on the classification that is received.
2.17        Out of a potential of 5,300 students at the graduate level in these
disciplines, this program would support 2,420 scholarships during the project.
Eighty percent of these scholarships would be for local study and 20 percent
for study abroad. A total of 275 months of visiting professors would be
financed, and 60 libraries would be rehabilitated.
C. Project Management and Implementation
2.18        Project Implementation Unit (PIU)(base cost US$4.1 million).
The project would be carried out by a PIU within the newly established
organizational structure of SUP. The PIU is under the direct responsibility of



- 19 -
the National Directorate of Finance and University Information which was
established in September 1994 for a minimum of five years. A qualified
Project Coordinator was selected in consultation with the Bank prior to
negotiations, and will report to the Secretary for University Pblicy through
the National Director of Finance and University Information. The PIU
would be structured around three major responsibilities: (i) procurement; (ii)
monitoring and supervision; and (iii) administration and financing. Each of
the universities selected for participation in the FOMEC program would
correspondingly designate a formal counterpart to oversee project execution
and administration, and liaise with the PIU The PIU would consist of 15 staff
(of which seven would be support staff) supported by the project. Most of this
staff comes directly from the PPU (Project Preparation Unit) set in place in
March 1994. In addition, the following activities would be financed under the
project: (i) regular visits to universities; (ii) training related to project
administrative and technical assistance specifically for the impact analysis
included in project supervision and monitoring; (iii) office technology; and (iv)
operating costs.
2.19        The PIU would ensure coordination with the Bank and with
other agencies and universities, and would be responsible for (i) directing,
coordinating, and supervising overall project implementation; (ii) monitoring
project execution according to the implementation schedule and project
monitoring and evaluation indicators; (iii) implementing procurement-related
activities according to procedures acceptable to the Bank; (iv) timely
submission to the Bank of disbursement-related administrative requirements;
(e) preparing semi-annual Progress Reports in a format acceptable to the Bank
to assist in project supervision; and (v) preparing and furnishing to the Bank,
not later than six months after the closing date, an evaluation report describing
in detail the implementation experience of the project, in a format acceptable
to the Bank (See flow chart in Annex 4 describing the position of the PIU in
the organizational structure of SUP).
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.20        Monitoring and evaluation activities would be carried out for
the: (i) project as a whole, to evaluate the effectiveness of each of its
components with respect to their individual objectives, to monitor its overall
impact on quality and efficiency in higher education in line with progress in
implementation of the reform and to assess the performance of the PIU in
managing the project; (ii) FOMEC, to verify the transparency and objectivity
of its evaluation and selection procedure and assess the impact of FOMEC
sub-projects on improving quality and efficiency in universities; and (iii)
individual FOMEC subprojects in each beneficiary university. At these three
levels specific input, process and outcome indicators would be used. (See the
list of indicators in Annex 5). The key indicators for project monitoring
evaluation and performance were finalized at negotiations.



- 20 -
2.21        Monitoring and supervision activities would consist of: semi-
annual supervision missions, an annual progress review, a Mid-Term Project
Implementation Review, and an implementation completion review, as outlined
below:
(a) Bank supervision missions would be conducted at least twice a year
and are expected to: (i) review financial and contracting processes; (ii)
assess the progress made in implementing each component; (iii) address
specific implementation issues; and (iv) visit some participating
universities.
(b) An annual progress review would be conducted jointly by the PIU
and the Bank no later than June of each year. This review would
analyze the previous year's performance and budget execution, propose
a work plan for the following year and discuss any adjustments to be
made in the project's implementation schedule. The annual progress
report consolidated by the PIU and sent to the Bank no later than May
of each year would include: (i) a summary of project activities
including input and process indicators; (ii) a summary of financial and
physical commitments for each component and program as compared
with the original plan; (iii) a summary of the implementation issues;
(iv) an updated and reviewed project implementation schedule together
with action plans for the implementation of project components during
the subsequent year; and (v) the expected budget contribution to cover
the investment and recurrent costs of the project for the next fiscal
year.
(c) A Mid-Term Review would be held no later than 30 months after
the date of effectiveness of the proposed Loan. This review would
focus on, inter alia: (i) project activities in terms of outcome indicators
and the progress in reaching project objectives; (ii) an assessment of the
compliance with the Loan Agreement's legal covenants and adequacy of
counterpart financing; (iii) an assessment of FOMEC and its
procedures, including an evaluation of a sample of grants awarded; and
(iv) compliance with procurement and disbursement arrangements
specifically at the university level.
(d) An Implementation Completion Report would be compiled by the
PIU within 6 months of the closing date of the loan, and would
summarize, inter alia: (i) project components and programs in terms of
input, process and outcome indicators; (ii) assessment of FOMEC
effectiveness; (iii) sectoral overview of higher education and impact
analysis of the project; (iv) the project's financial status; and (v)
implementation issues and recommendations.



- 21 -
2.22        Supervision of FOMEC. The CIS will be made up of seven
members and will supervise and evaluate the status of FOMEC subprojects and
programs once a year. Specifically, the CIS would: (i) evaluate the results
achieved by FOMEC and their impact on quality and efficiency improvement
in universities; (ii); review the institutional performance of FOMEC, including
the verification of the transparency and objectivity of its evaluation and
selection procedures; and (iii) formulate concrete recommendations to improve
the selection procedure and criteria, and even redirect FOMEC or certain
categories of its funding. In addition, FOMEC will be externally audited by
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. These reports would serve as a basis for
joint decisions by SUP and the Bank on further courses of action during
implementation of the project.



- 22 -
1mI. PROJECT COSIS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
3.1         The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$273
million equivalent, including contingencies. Project costs include the
refinancing of amounts disbursed under the US$1,262,000 Project Preparation
Facility advance (P233-0-AR) and any accrued interest thereon. Thble 3.1
summarizes the estimated costs by project component and category of
expenditure. Detailed costs by year, purpose and component are given in
Annex 6.
3.2         Base Costs. Baseline costs have been estimated in November
1994 prices. Costs for international and domestic consultants are in line with
recent education projects for appropriately qualified experts. The unit cost for
visiting foreign professors has been estimated to be, on average, US$5,000 per
month, and US$3,000 in the case of exchanges of professors. Annual
scholarships including tuition fees in local universities have been estimated to
be US$6,000 at the undergraduate level, US$13,500 at the graduate level, and
US$15,000 at the post-graduate level and for overseas studies on average,
from US$20,000 at the undergraduate level to US$23,000 at the post-graduate
level. The unit cost for trainees has been estimated to be US$1,000 a month.
Equipment packages for laboratories in Basic Sciences and Engineering are
estimated to range between US$30,000 and US$100,000, according to the
discipline and the complexity at the undergraduate level, and between
US$20,000 and US$200,000 at the graduate level. Computer equipment for
libraries has been estimated between US$12,000 to US$25,000 according to
their size, and grants for books and publications have been estimated at
US$13,000.
3.3         Contingency Allowances. Provision for price and physical
contingencies has been limited to institutional components. No contingencies
were used for the FOMEC fund. Physical contingencies (US$0.5 million)
represent 0.2 percent and price contingencies (US$3.2 million) 1.2 percent of
base costs. Physical contingencies amount to 5 percent of base costs for minor
rehabilitation works, goods, equipment, and materials, and 3 percent for fares
and per diem. No physical contingencies were considered for consultant
services/studies, training, scholarships, and incremental salaries and other
operating costs. In accordance with recent estimates, foreign price
contingencies were assumed to be 1.5 percent for 1995, 1.8 percent for 1996,
2.6 percent for 1997, and 2.5 percent for 1998 and later years.
3.4         Foreign Exchange. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$97.3 million, or about 36 percent of total project cost, based on the
following assumed percentages: (i) international consultants and visiting
professors, overseas training and scholarships, and international travel -- 100
percent; (ii) goods, laboratory and technical equipment, materials, computer
hardware and software -- 75 percent; (iii) local consultants and exchange



- 23 -
scholars, local fellowships, local training, minor rehabilitation works, and PIU
management and recurrent costs -- 0 percent.
3.5          lTxes and Duties. Locally procured and imported goods
necessary for the project are subject to the 18 percent value-added tax.
Imported goods will be exempt from customs tax. Therefore, taxes are
included in the local currency portion of project costs.
Table 3.1 SUMMARY COST TABLEa
(US$ '000)
Local      Foreign         Total     %Total    % Foreign
COMPONENT                                                             Base Cost      Exchange
A) INST=TUTIONAL
STRENGTHIENING
1) Planning & Management            1,243          974        2,216         0.8           44
Capacity of SUP
2) National Commission for          8,743         1,531       10,274         3.8           15
University Evaluation and
Accreditation
3) Information & University         2,214        4,777         6,991         2.6          68
Budget Allocation System
4) Interuniversity Network (RIU)      492         1,313        1,804         0.7          73
5) FOMEC Management                 5,310          135         5,445         2.0           2
6) Project Management (PIU)         4,049           70         4,119         1.5           2
Sub-total                    22,050         8,799       30,849        11.5           29
B) FOMEC
1) Basic Sciences and              85,027       79,473       164,500       61.1           48
Engineering
2) Humanities, Social and Health   65,677        8,250        73,927        27.5          11
Sciences, Graduate Education
Sub-total                    150,704       87,723      238,427        88.5           37
Total BASE COss                   172,755       96,522       269,276       100.0          36
Physical Contugencies              171          348           519         0.2
Price Contingencies              2,820          386         3,205         1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS               175,745       97,256      273,000        100.0
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding



- 24 -
B. Financing Plan
3.6    The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$165
million equivalent, or about 60 percent of total project cost. The loan would
finance 80 percent of the costs of about 3,800 months of consultants' services,
including training, visiting professors, peer reviewers, and studies, of which
260 months are expected to be internationally recruited. Of this technical
assistance, (excluding scholarships), 85 percent would be for capacity building,
ten percent for implementation support, and five percent for policy support.
The salaries of Govemment counterparts have not been included in the
financing plan since they are permanent employees of the Govemment
institutions performing project-related activities within their official functions.
For Component A (Institutional Strengthening), counterpart funding will come
from SUP's budget; for Component B (FOMEC), it will come from the
budgets of participating universities set aside on a monthly basis before
transferring to the universities, upon the direction of SUP. The financing rule
for FOMEC will be as follows: 20 percent of counterpart funds for consultant
services and visiting professors; 40 percent for scholarships and training; 30
percent for equipment, furniture, laboratories, libraries, and materials; and 50
percent for minor rehabilitation works. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that counterpart funding in an amount equivalent to US$108
illion would be made available over the life of the project. Thble 3.3
shows the proposed financing plan for the project.
Table 3.2 PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
Category            Local  Foreign   Total   % of Total    % of
Cost      Foreign
Exchange
Consultant Services v
Technical Assistance & Studies   16.6  2.1    18.7         6.9        11.4
Visiting Professors, Peer    13.3      0.8    14.1         5.2        6.0
Reviewers, & Training
Consultants
Scholarships and Training    105.8     14.7   120.5        44.1        12.2
Equipment and Furniture        1.7     14.4    16.1         5.9        89.7
Libraries, Laboratories and   13.2     64.7    77.8        28.5        83.1
Materials
Small Infrastructure           0.7      0.0     0.7         0.2         0.0
Rehabilitation
Incremental RecurTent         11.6      0.6    12.2         4.5         4.4
Expenditures
Project Operating Expenditures  12.9    0.0    12.9         4.7         0.0
Total lb                     175.8     97.2   273.0       100.0        35.6
a/ Includes travel and per diem.
b/ Totals may not add due to rounding. Figures include contingencies.



- 25 -
Table 3.3 FINANCING PLAN/8
(US$nillion)           % Financing
Govt (SUP)             Govt(SUP)
CATEGORY                        TOTAL   Universities   Bank Loan   Univers.  IBRD Loan
Consultant Services and Studies'  18.7         3.7         15.0        20          80
Visiting Professors               14.1         2.8         11.3        20          80
Scholarship / Training           120.5        48.0         72.5        40          60
Equipment and Furniture           16.1         4.8         11.3        30          70
Libraries, Laboratories, and      77.8        23.2         54.6        30          70
Materials
Small Infrastructure Rehabilitation  0.7       0.3         0.3         50          50
Incremental Recurrent             12.2         12.2         0.0       100           0
Expenditures
Project Operating Expenditures    12.9         12.9         0.0       100           0
Total                            273,0        108.0       165.0        40          60
/a Figures include contingencies.
/b Includes travel and per diem.
C. Status of Preparation
3.7   Project preparation was supported by an advance of US$862,000 from
PPF 233-0-AR. An extension of this PPF by US$400,000 to cover
preparation costs until effectiveness was agreed during negotiations and was
signed on May 11, 1995. Action plans for each of the 13 activities financed
under the PPF, terms of reference, and implementation schedule were
prepared, discussed and agreed with the Bank during a preparation mission
which took place in May 1994. The Project Preparation Unit was established
under SUP through a presidential decree issued in April 1994. By the time of
the appraisal mission most of the activities had been completed and about
US$375,000 from the PPF had been disbursed. Some savings have been
realized because a number of consultants hired to carry out those activities
became permanent staff in the new organization of SUP. In April 1995, the
PPU became the PIU. From January to April 1995 the remaining PPF funds
financed the following start-up activities: (i) finalization of the methodology
to evaluate and accredit post-graduate studies and distribution of the
documentation to universities; (ii) final design of the information system and
preparation of the bidding documents for equipment and software; (iii)
preparation and launching of the bidding process for PIU equipment; (iv)



- 26 -
studies to select the final parameters to be used in the formula to allocate
resources between universities; (v) finalization of the operational manual of
FOMEC and selection and designation of the members of its organizational
structure; (vi) design of the administrative organization of the PIU,
bookkeeping and monitoring of the project, and selection and designation of
PIU members; and (vii) preparation of the program to improve libraries.
D Implementation Schedule
3.8   The project is expected to be implemented over a five-year period,
from late 1995 to 2000. The PIU and the Bank would update and review the
implementation schedule during the annual reviews (see para. 2.21). The
completion date would be December 31, 2000 and the project closing date
would be June 30, 2001.
E. Procurement
3.9   Procurement of services, goods, and works, subject to Bank financing,
would be carried out by the PIU and by the participating universities, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. In the PIU, a specific unit of three staff
would be in charge of implementing procurement activities. No recent
assessment of Argentinean procurement procedures has been carried out.
However, there is no significant inconsistency between Federal procurement
procedures that applies to public national universities and Bank guidelines.
Procurement methods would require documents and procedures as follows:
(a)   International competitive bidding (ICB) would require the use of
Bank-issued standard bidding documents, which are mandatory.
Under ICB, domestic preference may be applied in accordance
with the Bank guidelines.
(b)   National competitive bidding (NCB) would require the use of
standard bidding documents previously agreed with the Bank
during negotiations.
(c)   Iocal shopping will be carried out according to Bank guidelines
and will require a minimum of three price quotations.
(d)   Consultants would be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to IBRD and on the basis of the Bank
guidelines. The Bank standard form of contract is mandatory
for time-based consulting services. A contract needed for
individual consulting services has been agreed for PPF



- 27 -
implementation and will be used for the project. A standard
letter of invitation is to be agreed during negotiations.
3.10  Thble 3.4 summarizes procurement arrangements for the proposed
project. Procurement for the different categories to be financed with the Bank
loan would comply with the procedures stated in the paragraphs below.
3.11 FOMEC Component. Under the second component (US$238.4 million
equivalent), a separate subproject agreement would be signed between SUP
and each participating university describing in full the legal and financial
obligations of the university in the execution of the fund. The agreement
would include the financing of overseas and domestic fellowships and training,
overseas visiting professors, consultant services, equipment, books and
joumals, minor rehabilitation works, consumables and incremental operating
costs. Procurement arrangements would be specified in the subproject
agreements, and each university would be responsible for procurement of all
goods and services included in its agreement. Aggregation of the procurement
activities in various subproject agreements signed separately is not feasible
given the different needs, locations, and procurement time schedules of
participating universities. For the integrated subproject grant proposal, the
scholarships and overseas visiting professors to be employed under subproject
agreements would be proposed and approved as part of the subproject
applications. However, individual scholarships and visiting professors costing
less than US$50,000 for individuals or US$100,000 for firms or contract
arrangements for universities, up to an aggregate of US$113.3 million for
scholarships and US$14.1 million for visiting professorships and training
consultants, would require only random post-review by the Bank's supervision
missions.
3.12 Goods and Works. For equipment to be purchased, the procurement
plans submitted by concerned universities as part of their subproject proposals
would be reviewed by relevant specialists through peer reviews and site visits.
Within FOMEC, an estimated total of US$86 million equivalent (before
contingencies) is expected to be used for purchases of equipment, materials,
books and computers. Works contracts are expected to be of small amounts
and widely scattered; local shopping procedures would consequently be used
for contracted amounts of US$300,000 or less (an estimated 95 percent of the
cases). Most acquisition programs for goods are expected to range in cost
from US$50,000 to US$250,000, and are estimated to cost below US$100,000
equivalent per contract, but would not exceed in the aggregate US$1 million
equivalent in most universities. Whenever possible, similar goods would be
grouped into packages costing US$350,000 or more and would be procured
under International Competitive Bidding. Those packages estimated to cost
less than US$350,000 but more than US$100,000 would be procured through
Limited International Bidding (LIB) in the case of computers, office



- 28 -
equipment, laboratory and pedagogic equipment and materials and through
NCB in the case of furniture and library items. Packages estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 would be procured following local or international shopping
procedures in line with the Bank's requirements. Participating universities
would follow the above-mentioned procurement procedures which would be
stipulated in subproject agreements and as summarized in Tables 3.4 and 3.5
below. The PIU would provide guidance and monitor the procurement
activities at participating universities.
3.13  Technical Assistance. The project would finance: (a) US$18.7 million
equivalent for various consultants, including peer reviewers; (b) US$14.1
million equivalent for training and visiting professors; and (c) US$113.3
million equivalent for scholarships. Scholarships would be awarded to
candidates on the basis of programs as evaluated by FOMEC in accordance
with criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. TYaining contracts would
be awarded to local training providers in accordance with Government
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultant contracts
estimated to cost below US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000
equivalent for individuals, up to an aggregate of US$12 million and US$20.9
million, respectively, would require only the review of the terms of reference
on an ex-ante basis. However, this would not apply to single-source selection
of firms, or to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank, or to contract extensions which would raise the total contract amount
above the specified thresholds.
3.14 Project implementation expenditures such as incremental salaries, fares
and per diems, office materials, and incremental recurrent expenditures
introduced by the proposed project, will be financed entirely with Government
counterpart funds.
3.15 Review by the Bank. Thble 3.5 below summarizes the proposed Bank
review thresholds. Prior review by the Bank would be required for all ICB
and LIB documentation contracts and for the first two NCB packages of each
calendar year for goods and works. In addition:
(a)   Individual scholarships and visiting professors for less than
US$50,000 would be subject to random post-review by the
Bank;
(b)   Annual training plans for each year under the institutional
strengthening component would be submitted as part of the
annual report for discussion with the Bank;
(c)   All individual consultant contracts costing more than US$50,000
and contracts for consulting firms costing more than



- 29 -
US$100,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All
other contracts would be reviewed in the field by sampling on
an ex-post basis by Bank supervision missions.
(d)    The list of ranked subprojects approved by FOMEC will be sent
to the Bank and from this list the Bank would select those for
which the Bank would give its commentaries.
The above-mentioned review procedures are expected to result in a
prior review coverage of 43 percent of Bank-financed contracts.
lTble 3.4 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS"
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                   Total
Project Element                              ICB      NCB       Other    N.B.F.     Cost
1. Technical Assistance
Consultant Services and Studies'                                   18.7                18.7
(15.0)             (15.0)
Taining and Visiting Professors                                    14.1                14.1
(11.3)             (11.3)
2. Scholarship and Teachers Training                                 120.5               120.5
(72.5)             (72.5)
3. Goods
Computers and Office Equipment'                                    11.0                11.0
(7.7)              (7.7)
Furniture                                                 3.6       1.5                 5.1
(2.5)     (1.1)               (3.6)
Libraries                                                 3.1       7.2                10.3
(2.2)     (5.1)              (7.2)
Laboratories, Pedagogic Equipment and           8.1                59.4                67.5
Materials'd                                   (5.7)              (41.7)              (47.4)
4. Works: Minor Rehabilitatione                                        0.7                 0.7
(0.3)              (0.3)
TOTAL                                              8.1       6.7    233.1                247.9
(5.7)    (4.7)   (154.7)             (165.0)
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
N.B.F. = Amounts not financed by the Bank
/a Total includes taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses represent Bank financing. Totals may not
add due to rounding.
/b Includes travel and per diem.
/c Computers and office equipment fbr a total amount of US$4.4 million would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) and US$6.6 million through local or international shopping.
/d Laboratories and materials for a total amount of US$32.4 million would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) and for a total amount of US$27 million through local or international shopping.
/e Minor rehabilitation works would be procured through local shopping.



- 30 -
Table 3.5 SUtMMARY OF PROCUREMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
Category                          Procedure                  Prior Bank Review
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services and Training
Contracts with firms for                    Othere                           All
US$100,000 or more
Contracts with individuals for              Other'                          All
US$50,000 or more
Individual scholarship and contracts         Other                       Post review
with visiting professor below US$
50,000
Goods
Computers; office, laboratory, pedagogic
and communication equipment; and
materials
More than US$350,000                         ICB                            All
US$100,000 to US$350,000                     LIB                            All
Less than US$100,000                       Shopping                     Post review
Furniture and LibrarEy Items
More than USS350,000                         ICB                            All
US$100,000 to US$350,000                    NCB                  First two contracts each year
Less than US$100,000                       Shopping                     Post review
Works: Minor rehabilitation
More than US$350,000                        NCB                 First two contracts of each year.
US$350,000 or less                         Shopping
/a Hiring of consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines.
F. Disbursements and Accounts
3.16 The proposed loan of US$165 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of five years. The disbursement schedule is based on the
implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for education projects in
the LAC Region. It is shorter than the Regional profile of 7.5 years,
reflecting in part: (a) the readiness of project preparation resulting from
timely PPF execution; and (b) the Borrower's strong commitment to the
project. The allocation of loan proceeds and estimated disbursement schedule
are summarized in Thbles 3.6 and 3.7 below, respectively.
3.17 Disbursements from the loan proceeds for the following contracts and
agreements would be made against full documentation: (a) consultant services
with individual consultants costing more than US$50,000 and consulting firm



- 31 -
contracts costing more than US$100,000; and (b) all ICB and LIB, and the
first two NCB contracts each year. All other disbursements would be made
against statement of expenditures (SOEs) for which relevant documents would
be retained by the PIU and the concerned universities, respectively, and made
available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. When
expenditures are incurred by universities, copies of such documents would be
supplied to the PIU for verification and record-keeping. The Bank would
finance up to US$5 million (approximately 3 percent of the proposed loan)
retroactively for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1995 and in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines. Retroactive financing is needed essentially
to finance the interuniversity network and the information system.
Table 3.6 ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF IBRD LOAN
Amount of the Loan        Percent of
Category                                 Allocated (US Dollar     Expenditures
Equivalent)         to be Financed
Consultant Services (Tech. Assistance, Studies,  23,000,000            80
Training and Visiting Professors)'
Scholarships and Training Expenditures       67,500,000               60
Office Equipment and Furniture               9,000,000                70
Libraries, Laboratories, and Materials       49,500,000                70
Minor Works                                    300,000                50
Refinancing of PPF                            1,262,000               100
Unallocated                                  14,438,000
Total                                        165,000,000
/a Includes travel and per diem.
Table 3.7: ESTIMATED IBRD LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00
Annual              28      42      44      35      16
Cumulative          28      70    114    149    165



- 32 -
3.18  Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in the Central Bank of Argentina
or a commercial bank. The Special Account would be established within an
authorized allocation of US$10 million, equivalent to the average four-month
project financing requirement. An initial deposit of up to US$5.0 million will
be made, and the full amount of the authorized allocation will be released
when disbursements reach a level of US$30 million. Disbursements will be
made under authorized signatures from a designated representative of the
Borrower. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be
prepared by the PIU in accordance with Bank policies and procedures.
G. Audits
3.19 The project's accounts would be available for inspection by the Bank.
Annually audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months following the end of the Government's fiscal year. The annual audit
reports would include: (a) an audit of the project, including (i) a statement
of sources and applications of funds; (ii) a statement of assets and liabilities;
and (iii) supplementary financial information showing cumulative project
performance; (b) an auditor's opinion on the eligibility of expenses submitted
through the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); (c) an opinion regarding the
compliance with the procurement procedures specified in the Loan Agreement
and in the relevant FOMEC subproject agreements; (d) compliance opinions of
the financial and managerial covenants in the Loan Agreement; (e) an audit of
the Special Account; (f) a management letter; (g) a disclosure of the audit
procedures utilized; and (h) conforming to generally accepted auditing
practices, a financial audit of FOMEC accounts and a physical audit of the
subprojects financed through FOMEC. Annual audits would be performed
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The Auditorfa General de
la Naci6n (AGN) would be responsible for reviewing the audit plan,
supervising the audit, and reporting.



- 33 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1          The project would consolidate difficult sector reforms and
provide incentives for universities to increase their investment in graduate
education. In addition, the efficiency gains in higher education will facilitate a
greater concentration of resources on basic and secondary education. More
specifically, the project would improve the efficiency and quality of the
university system by: (i) increasing the transparency and accountability of
resource allocation and use; (ii) introducing competition among universities in
gaining access to funding for research and teaching activities; (iii) revising
curricula; (iv) promoting the restructuring of graduate education by
strengthening, in each discipline, only a limited number of centers of
excellence with a critical mass (about 200 out of 767 graduate programs); (v)
training about 3000 professors (an increase of more than 50 percent of the
current potential with Ph.D degrees) as well as increasing teaching staff
mobility; and (vi) providing laboratory and teaching equipment, corresponding
to 40 percent of potential needs in order to increase the quality of experimental
teaching.
B. Risks
4.2          The first risk concems the implementation of the legal
framework for reforms which supports the project. Political tensions are
traditionally high in the university sector and universities are autonomous
institutions that usually resist change. This risk has been minimized recently
and should not directly affect the implementation of the project. First, the
legal framework as well as the project content has been largely discussed by
the Govemment through an intense public debate. Since 1994, the Govemment
has shown a strong and constant commitment to the reform process,
demonstrated by the adoption of the Higher Education Law by the Chamber of
Deputies on June 7, 1995. There is also a consensus among rectors on the
objectives and major components of the project, and CIN and CRUP, which
have been fully involved during the preparation process, will be represented in
the institutional structure of CONEAU and FOMEC. Second, this new legal
framework confirms and fosters changes which have already taken place in the
higher education policy and in some universities: (i) the autonomy of
universities was confirmed in the Constitution adopted in August 1994 and the
1995 budget law; (ii) private university development was liberalized by a
decree in 1993; (iii) the 1992 financial administration law authorizes
universities to diversify resources; (iv) some universities, through foundations
or "cooperadoras," are already collecting student fees and contracting with
enterprises; these resources represent US$100 million or 6.6 percent of their
total income; (v) the evaluation and accreditation system is already being
implemented by the CNA; and (vi) about 25 percent of public universities are
currently implementing an admissions procedure for entry into undergraduate
programs.



- 34 -
4.3         The second risk concerns the fact that FOMEC is a new
institution. In order to minimize the risk of irregularities in the selection of
sub-projects and funding procedures of FOMEC: (i) an annual physical and
financial external audit would be undertaken; (ii) once a year, CIS would
evaluate the results of FOMEC operations and their impact on quality and
efficiency improvement in universities; review the institutional performance of
FOMEC; verify the transparency and objectivity of the selection procedure;
and formulate concrete recommendations; and (iii) a Mid-Term Review would
define, if necessary, any changes in financial and institutional arrangements.
C. Sustainability
4.4         Operating costs, which represent only 4.7 percent of total
project cost, are supported by the Government. Most of the permanent staff
who will be involved in the management of the project are part of the new
organizational structure of SUP (which includes 192 staff) determined by law.
The institutional development of CONEAU and FOMEC would play a critical
role in ensuring continuity of quality control and competitive funding in
support of university education. The institutional stability of the project will
be assured by the formal establishment (by enabling decrees) of CONEAU and
FOMEC prior to negotiations. In addition, to ensure the financial
sustainability of FOMEC, SUP will allocate to FOMEC US$70 million,
representing the share of the FY95 university budget devoted to the incentive
program for teaching staff to undertake research. The objective is to make
FOMEC a permanent funding mechanism by progressively increasing the
annual national funding by US$30 million by the end of the project in 2001.
In addition, the budgetary process itself ensures that the universities'
counterpart funding for FOMEC will be available. In fact, by allocating the
federal budget to each university on a monthly basis, SUP can link FOMEC
financing to the availability of counterpart funding.
D. Poverty Category
4.5         The project has no direct impact on poverty alleviation.
However, the resulting efficiency gains from the reform of the financing
system could reduce the growth of public higher education expenditures, and
therefore contribute to an overall environment in which more resources are
available for secondary education, a major source of inequity.
E. Environmental Impact
4.6         The project does not present environmental risks and has an
environmental rating of "C." Increased capacity in basic sciences and
engineering disciplines might impact favorably on the development of
environmental teaching and research. The operating guidelines of FOMEC will
stipulate that all activities to be funded must comply with prevailing rules for
environmental preservation.



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
5.1   During project appraisal, agreement was reached that the following actions would be
carried out prior to negotiations. All actions were in fact completed prior to negotiations:
(a)   submission of the proposed methodology and criteria to be used in the
accreditation process to classify graduate studies;
(b)   publication of the final decree establishing FOMEC (para. 2.11);
(c)   dispatch to the Bank of the final version of the Operational Manual of FOMEC
(para. 2.13);
(d)   finalization of the Policy Letter on Higher Education to be sent to the Bank
(para 1.25); and
(e)   appointment, within SUP, of a full-time project coordinator in charge of the
PIU (para. 2.18).
5.2  In addition, during the appraisal mission, agreements were reached on the following
activities to be carried out (most being financed by the PPF) in order to facilitate the start-up
of the project: (i) the launching by the CNA of the accreditation process; (ii) for the SUAR,
an assessment of the needs of universities and preparation of the bidding documents for the
procurement of equipment; (iii) tests of various formulas to allocate budgetary resources
among universities; (iv) design of an accounting and monitoring system for the project; v)
preparation of the bidding documents for equipment and materials for the RIU; (vi)
preparation of terms of reference of the studies and training to be implemented in the
component Improvement of the Planning and Management Capacity of SUP; (vii) preparation
of the program to improve libraries; (viii) finalization of the regulatory framework for
scholarships; and (ix) preparation of the initial baseline report for project monitoring. A
timetable for the completion of these activities would be agreed during negotiations.
5.3   During negotiations, assurances on agreement were reached from the Government on
the following:
a) NCB bidding procedures would be carried out using bidding documents agreed
with the Bank and that consultant's proposals would be requested using a letter of
invitation format agreed with the Bank (para. 3.9);
b) a monitoring and evaluation process acceptable to the Bank, including the scope



- 36 -
and content of the baseline report, annual progress review, Mid-Term Review and
selected key indicators for project monitoring evaluation and performance would be
implemented (paras. 2.20 and 2.21);
c) the organizational structure of PIU and FOMEC will be maintained within the
SUP in accordance with terms of reference, staffing, and other resources such as
office space and operational resources satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.18);
d) CONEAU and CNA will follow a methodology acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.6);
e) FOMEC will function in accordance with the Operational Manual approved by the
Bank, and the Manual will not be changed without prior Bank approval (para. 2.13);
f) FOMEC will be supervised by the CIS, and the CIS will operate on the basis of
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.22);
g) in addition to the annual audit of the project account, a financial audit of FOMEC
accounts and a physical audit of the subprojects financed through FOMEC will be
performed (para. 3.19);
h) counterpart funding in the amount of US$108 million would be made available
over the life of the project (para. 3.6).
5.4   The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) establishment and staffing of PIU under terms of reference and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.18);
(b) establishment of CONEAU and nomination of the members of the Executive
Council with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 2.4, 2.6);
(c) establishment of FOMEC and nomination of the members of the Executive
Council with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.11); and
(d) submission of a subproject agreement satisfactory to the Bank to be signed
between SUP and the universities which would be funded by FOMEC (para. 2.11).
(e) adoption of a formula, satisfactory to the Bank, for the allocation of budgetary
resources among the national universities and of a plan, also satisfactory to the Bank,
for the implementation of such allocation.



- 37 -
Recommendation
5.5   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$165 million for the Argentine Republic, repayable in
15 years including a five-year grace period, with loan amortization based on level
repayments of principal.



-38-
ANNEXES



TABLE 1:
, .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.. ~.*..*..*.*.......**.*..*..*..... M ,, : ; : i..*..*..... ; i ..............
Enrollment by University; Growth Rate, Composition Percentage
1982/1992
ANNUAL GROWTH            COMPOSITION
UNIVERSITY                     1982       1985       1992               RATE                 PERCENTAGE
82/92   82/85    85/92         1982       1992
TOTAL                         3T72W99   574,5su   6979773        87.    18.        4.Z   31,7299      72
Grandes                       260,429   426,464   567,505        8.1    17.9       4.2       81.8       81.2
Bienos Aires                  102,941   143,887   169,540        5.1    11.8       2.4       32.3       24.
Cordoba                        34,060    59,173    81,233        9.1    20.2       4.6       10.7       11.6
La Plata                       33,187     52,215    92,632    10.8    16.3         8.5       10.4       13.2
Tecnotggica Nacional           25,673    47,689    71,831    10.8    22.9          6.0        8.1       10.3
Rosario                        17,984    35,488    48,948    10.5    25.4          4.7       751         7.0
Nordeste                       16,356    28,919    29,046        5.9    20.9       0.1        5.         4.2
Tucuman                        16,140    28,7 9    34,885        8.0    21.2       2.8        5           .
Lomas de Zamora                 4,615    13,669    21,980    16.9    43.6          7 0        1.4        3.1
Cuyo                            9,473     16,695    17,410       6.3    20.8       0.6        3.0        2.5
Medianas                       39,479    70,604    94,651        9.1    21.4       4.3       12.4       13.5
La Matanza                  ...        ...            7,034           3.  6.3  ..1.0
Comahue                        3,655      6,199      9 5374   10.1    19.3       6.3        1.         1 .4
LitoraT                         91,120    14,415    13,239       3.8    16.5    -1.2 2                    .9
Mar deuis t                     4,315      6,272      7,701      6.0    13.3        .0        1.4        1.1
Mar deplPlata                   5,889    12,663    15 716    10.3    29.1          3          1.9        2. 2
Sua]4na                         4,274      8,712     1889        9.8    26.8       3          1.3
MYiones                         2,732      5,563       8,237    10.2    26.7       3          0.9        1.0
Son Juan                        5,349      8,503      8,106      4.2    16.7    -0.7          1.7        1.2
Rio Cuarto                      4,145      5,577      7,022      5.4    10.4       3.3        1.3        1.0
Pe uena                       18,391    27,522    37,137        7.3    14.4       4.4        5.8        5.3
En re R!os                      2,299      3,670      6,099    10.2    16.9        7.5        0.7        0.9
La Patagonia S. J. Bosco        1,654      2,977      4,292    10.0    21.6        5.4        0.5        0.6
Su;                             4,897      6,130      5,942      2.0      7.8    -0.4         1.5        0.8
iJUDU                           1,500      2,476      3,202      7.9    1.2          7        0.5        0.5
Catamarca                       1,833      3,126      5864       7.7    19.5       3:1        0:6        0.6
La Pqmpa                        2,212      3,218       ,312      4.1    13.3       0.4        0.7        0.5
Santiago del Estero             1,122      1,780      21415      8.0    16.6       4.5        0.4        0:3
Formosa                     ...        ...            1,879  ...      ...      ...      ...              0.3
Quilmes                     ...        ...              869  ...      ...      ...      ...              0.1
Source:  PMSIU
M



TABLE 2:
University Graduates; Growth Rate;
Corpositwon Percentage, 1981/1991
GWrwiuw         CONPOSITION
UDIVERBITY                         1981      1991        RATE            PERCENTAGE
-321-M    ~~81/91          iv  191    1991
-lTOTwLr26,980    328                                      1. a                32,MU38
Grandes                          23,414    27,640             1.7       86.8        85.3
Buenos Aires                      9986    12,587              2.3       37.0        38.9
C6rdoba                           4,095     4,428             0.8       15.2        13.7
La Plata                          3,226     2,805            -1.4       12.0         8.7
Tecnoa6gica Nacional              1,403     1,348            -0.4        5.2         4.2
Rosario                           1,770     1,983             1.1        6.6         6.1
Nordegte                          1,010     1,324             2.7        3.7         4
1,131     1,408            2.2         4.2         4.
Lomas de Zamora                     150       583            14.5        0.6         1.8
Cuyo                                643     1,174             6.2        2.4         3.6
Medianas                          2,376     3,236             3.1        8.8        10.0
La Matanza                     ...       ...        .......                            
Comahue                            .128       378            11.4        0.5         1.2 o
Litora4                             747       731            -0.2        2.8         2.3
San Luis                            286       386             3.0        1.1         1.2
Mar del Plata                       411       518             2.3        1.5         1.6
Salta                               202       211             0.4        0.7         0.7
L,,I&n                         ...      .     239 ...              ...        .      0.7
Hi  ones                             61        174  .        11.1        0.2         0.5
San Juan                            263       259            -0.2        1.0         0.8
Rio Cuarto                          278        340            2.0         1.0        1.0
Po uena                           1,190     1,511             2.4        4.4         4.7
En ref Ros                           95       235             9.5        0.4         0.7
La Patagonia S.J.Bosco               72        129            6.0        0.3         0.4
Sur                                 497       390            -2.4        1.8         1.2
Jujuy                                24         60            9.6        0.1         0.2
Centro                              193        277            3.7        0.7         0.9
Catamarca                           100        122            2.0        0.4         0.4
La Pampa                            147        176            1.8        0.5         0.5
Santiaqo del Estero                  62         72            1.5        0.2         0.2
Formos&                        ...              50                 ...               0.2
Qurlmes P...                             ... S..                    ..          ..
Sources PNSIU



-41-                                                  Annex 1
GRAPH 1:
Argentine National Universities
Enrollment Trends 1982-92
699,293
700                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~652,997  661.3
61 8,65
600  -                             .             58l             -
524 590""
V, 500                                                         .. ...... . .
443.44V1
'   -   4 0 0   -                                          .    .   .     .    .    .    . .  .....  .. ..   . . .     . 
U)                ~~~~337.99(
~'          318 3 99    (1J
-2 300 -
nH
:3    2004-.22 3  182,3()h  170.0i169j.6)b32  170)fili3  172,4(XKJ'''fi444;   166.02()
z   200 -                                        O '-  l236.   6.3 
132 .29.1
100      57.037   65.62("                                                                                     .... ...
26m( 6 ?6.888    28,158    30,873   29,855   29.193    31,645   33.143    33,465   32,387
0 --.--i- -I    -I                              I              I
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992
Year
d,               N   -   Total Students -@- New Students -*- Graduates
,  uI ll d... '  ;.k ,,.
Evolution of Public Expenditure per Student in Argentine
National Universities, 1982-1994
3000
2500 -
2 0 0 0                              -,                                 ...    .. ... .............    ........................ .......... 
1500- .....  ......... ............... .
2000 
|Public Resources per student
5o00   .                              ....       ..            .       .      .    .....           .
0
O-VIl                                 l       l                 
_                                                       



-42-                         Annex 1
TABLE 3:
Consolidated PublHc Expenditure on Education, by Level
(as percentage of GDP)
_Year    Primaa   Secondnar    Hiher/University   loaw
1980      1.52      0.95           0.49         2.96
1981      1.43      1.00           0.54         2.97
1982      1.05      0.73           0.39         2.18
1983      1.29      0.77           0.41         2.46
1984      1.65      0.94           0.45         3.04
1985      1.72      0.91           0.49         3.12
1986      1.99      0.93           0.49         3.40
1987      2.08      0.98           0.60         3.66
1988      1.72      0.91           0.63         3.26
1989      1.74      0.76           0.48         2.99
1990      1.69      0.80           0.49         2.98
1991      1.78      0.84           0.52         3.14
992       1.77      0.82           0.54         3.12
1993      1.77      0.80           0.65         3.22
1994      1.92      0.88           0.71         3.51
Source: Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services, Secretariat of
Economic Programming



-43-
Annex 2
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR UNIVERSITY EVALUATION AND
ACCREDITATION (CONEAU)
Objectives
1.    The main objectives of CONEAU are to promote the process of self-evaluation by
public and private universities; consolidate and extend the activities of the external evaluation
of the universities; and accredit the undergraduate programs of public interest (such as
medicine and law), and postgraduate studies in all disciplines. The specific objectives of the
proposed accreditation process are to:
(i)   Apply homogeneous procedures in determining the quality of graduate programs and
classify them with a view to designing specific policies for support, incentives, and
improvement;
(ii)   Promote the consolidation of graduate education and move toward the adoption of
internationally-recognized criteria of excellence;
(iii)  Foster the formation of highly-qualified human resources (teachers and researchers) to
improve graduate teaching, and of professionals who specialize in areas that are
crucial for the country's development; and
(iv)  Promote a more rational organization of the different types of graduate programs:
specialization, Masters degrees, and doctorates.
2.    This accreditation is necessary for accessing the funds provided through FOMEC.
During the five years of the project, CONEAU is expected to process about 950 requests for
accreditation of graduate programs, evaluate 75 university programs, train 130 evaluators,
prepare and publish 16 manuals for evaluation for the duration of the project and organize
two seminars every year. Each year CONEAU will issue a public report of all decisions
taken and recommendations.
Organizational Structure
3.    The institutional structure of CONEAU is composed of: (i) a National Commission
for Evaluation and Accreditation consisting of 13 members of different origins to guarantee
its independence (five will be designated by the Inter-University Council (CIN), three by the
Council of Private University Rectors, three by Congress, 1 by the National Academy of
Education, and one by the Ministry of Culture and Education); (ii) peer review committees



-44-
Annex 2
made up of six Argentines and two foreigners for each of the eleven disciplines;' (iii) an
Executive Director supported by three departments (Evaluation and Accreditation,
Institutional Development, and Administration). The permanent staff will consist of 24
people, five of whom are currently in SUP and would be transferred. The salaries of
permanent staff will be supported by counterpart funding.
Natonal Commision for
Evaluabon & Accreditabon
Executive                    Peer Review Committes
_Diretor                             By Discipline
Evaluabon &                  Institutional                Administration
Accreditation                Development                  Department
Department                   Department
Evaluation and Accreditation Methodology
4.    Universities will carry out their own internal evaluation in order to provide the
documentation required by CONEAU for the evaluation process. The accreditation of
graduate programs will be the result of an analytical process carried out by external
evaluators organized as peer committees, who will study the information provided by the
postgraduate programs, conduct visits, and issue recommendations. Accredited programs
would be evaluated periodically to verify whether their quality has been maintained or
improved. General criteria of excellence will be established for all postgraduate programs,
which will be specific by discipline and specialty, and will serve to guide the evaluation.
They will be made public so that both the postgraduate programs and the external evaluators
are aware of the rules of the game. CONEAU will give its opinion according to the reports
1/    Agriculture, veterinary, and forestry; architecture, environment, and urban and territorial development;
basic sciences; philosophy, literature and art; engineering, technology and computers; law and international
relations; health; social science; education and psychology; land, water and atmosphere; and economics and
public and private administration.



-45-
Annex
Evaluation Criteria and Weights
Items to Evaluate              Points              Categories of Postgraduates
A              B              C
1. Organization                             14             10              9              8
-Objectives, relevance for development       6
curriculum and contents
-Admission process
-Financing and scholarships                   5
3
2. Teaching Staff                            40             33             30             25
-Full-time/part-time professors               6
-Qualification
-Scientific publication, research output     10
-Capacity to supervise and direct            10
dissertations
-Interaction with outside environment
-External collaboration and outside          10
support
2
2
3. Physical Resources                        12            10               8             4
-Library, laboratories, research equipment    9
-Classrooms
3
4. Dissertation                             20              17             14             10
-Planning and results                        15
-Relevance and dissemination                  5
5. Internal Efficiency                       10              8              4              3
-Duration of studies (drop-out, repetition)  5
-Graduation rate
5
6. External Efficiency                        4              2             -
-Integration into Labor Market               2
- Tracing of Graduates                       2
TOTAL                                       100             80             64             50



-46-
Annex 2
prepared by the peer review committees. In the case of graduate programs or undergraduate
programs of public interest it will be decisions of accreditation, and in the case of
universities it will be recommendations included in a report.
Ranking of Postgraduate Programs
5.    Graduate programs will be ranked in three categories.  Graduate programs which
score between 80 and 100 will be classified A; between 65 and 79, B; between 50 and 64,
C. Programs scoring under 50 will not be accredited.
6.   In addition, to be ranked in category A the graduate programs will have to satisfy the
following criteria: (i) the quality level should be comparable to that of similar programs in
the region (eg., Brazil and Chile); (ii) the proportion of full-time professors should not be
less than 60 percent with the number of permanent teaching staff not lower than six; (iii)
visiting professors in charge of seminars are not included in the permanent teaching staff;
(iv) teaching staff members should have published at least ten articles or books (six in the
case of undergraduate programs) in the past five years in scientifically recognized
publications; (v) the doctoral thesis of the candidate should make an original contribution in
the field of knowledge and show adeptness at research (for the thesis at undergraduate level,
an original contribution is not a pre-requisite). For vocationalized undergraduate and graduate
programs, standards will be established by each profession.
Accreditation and Access to FOMEC
7.    Programs should be accredited in order to access FOMEC funds. Programs in
Category A would be eligible for FOMEC funds, and will need only a small investment in
scholarships and visiting professors to improve their quality. Programs in Category B are
also eligible for FOMEC funds, but will need substantial investment through sub-projects
(equipment, rehabilitation, training, technical assistance, scholarships and visiting professors)
to be strengthened. Programs in Category C would not be eligible for FOMEC funding until
they have corrected major deficiencies.



-47-
Annex
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
FOMEC
Organizational Structure
1.      The FOMEC's institutional structure will include:  (i) an Executive
Council (EC); (ii) an Executive Director (ED) supervising three departments
for academic, programming and administrative areas; (iii) two Advisory
Committees (ACs); (iv) Peer Review Committees in six major disciplines
(PRC); and (v) an international Supervision Committee (CIS).
FOMEC STRUCTURE
Executive-------------------C-  ---------
Council
Projects
approved        A
for
financing IF
_xecuti. _ranked projects
Executive                                 AC                  AC
Director                        *    Orientation          Orientation
eligible projects       I
Projects
Financed
project academic
assessment
PRC0     0 ; L
Academic          Administrative         Program
Coordinator          Coordinator         Coordinator
i                                                          PRC        PR       PC
project                                                          I
iropois
Uiesitiprs



-48-
Annex 3
2.    The Executive Council (EC) will have five members. The Secretary
for University Policy will be a permanent member and will chair the council.
The other four members will be designated by the SUP for four years and
half would be renewed every two years. The EC will: (i) verify that FOMEC
objectives are met; (ii) assure the transparency of selection procedures; (iii)
decide the financing of eligible and ranked subprojects; (iv) ask the ED to
carry out the diagnostic studies which could be necessary to improve the
management of FOMEC or the studies to measure its impact; (v) propose
new programs to be financed or new sources of financing; and (vi) inform
the Government and the World Bank of FOMEC activities.
3.    The Executive Director will report directly to the EC and will have
the responsibility to: (i) provide support for the ACs in carrying out their
work; (ii) prepare the financial proposals for subprojects and programs, in
accordance with feasibility and eligibility criteria established for the program,
the strategic priorities set by SUP, and the recommendations of the ACs with
regard to the quality of projects submitted by universities; (iii) execute, on
behalf of SUP, all the decisions adopted by the EC, and organize and carry
out all the administrative, information, and dissemination activities necessary
for that purpose; (iv) administer the resources FOMEC obtains from the
regular budget of the Ministry of Culture and Education, national
counterparts, and Bank funds; and (v) prepare reports to enable SUP and the
CIS to monitor FOMEC's activities.
4.    The executive directorate will have both a permanent and an ad hoc
structure, whose duration will be equivalent to that of the project, in
compliance with Bank agreements. The Executive Director will be assisted
by: (i) an academic coordinator, who would provide administrative support
for scientific and academic evaluation, ACs coordination, for executing and
monitoring actions to attain the project's scientific and academic targets, and
liaising with the CIS; (ii) an administrative coordinator, who would be
responsible for administrative, accounting, and financial management and;
(iii) a programming coordinator, who would be responsible for technical
studies and the application of multi-criteria methods for programming and
evaluation activities. The Executive Director and coordinators will occupy
permanent positions in the SUP filled through public competition, in keeping
with the normal procedures and rules of the system governing national
administrative positions.
5.    The Advisory Committees for each of FOMEC's components will
have the responsibility to: (i) keep the preliminary diagnoses up to date; (ii)
evaluate the subprojects submitted by universities, applying previously-
determined feasibility and eligibility criteria (it may consult experts in
specific areas for that purpose); and (iii) recommend subprojects that are
eligible for financing to the Executive Director, proposing an order of
priority for them.
6.    The ACs will have five members chosen on the basis of their
scientific and professional reputations, in combination with their affiliation



-49-
Annex 3
with universities of different sizes and geographic locations, so that they
represent the diversity of the national university system as closely as
possible. Their terms will be four years renewable once. SUP will select the
members of the ACs from a list of more than ten candidates proposed by
CIN.
7.     The Peer Review Committees will be formed on an ad hoc basis in
each of the six disciplines to carry out the academic evaluation of proposals.
Their size would vary according to discipline. Consultants will be selected
from short lists based on their expertise in the discipline.'
8.    An International Supervision Committee (CIS) will monitor and
evaluate the development of FOMEC programs. It will be a consultative and
advisory body, reporting directly to SUP, and through it, to the Bank. It will
meet once a year in regular session, and all or some of its members may
meet in special sessions called at the request of SUP. The CIS will supervise
and evaluate the status of FOMEC subprojects and programs once a year in a
fully independent fashion and carry out the following activities: (i) evaluate
the results achieved and their impact on quality and efficiency improvement
in universities; (ii) review the institutional performance of FOMEC including
the verification of the transparency and objectivity of its evaluation and
selection procedures; (iii) formulate concrete recommendations to improve
the selection procedure and criteria, and even redirect FOMEC or certain
categories of its funding. In addition, FOMEC will be externally audited.
These reports will serve as a basis for joint decisions by the SUP and the
Bank on further courses of action during implementation of the project.
9.    CIS would be made up of seven members, some of whom would be
replaced every two years (three after the first two years); all would be
recognized scientists and professionals, of whom four would be Argentine
and three foreign consultants. The members of CIS would be selected by
SUP, in consultation with the Bank on the basis of short lists following Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants. The selection criteria would include, in
addition to academic and scientific excellence, representation of disciplines,
regions and institutions. CIS would establish its operating rules during its
first meeting. The Executive Director of FOMEC would provide the
administrative and secretarial support to CIS.
Access and Selection Procedures of FOMEC
10.   The subprojects would be prepared and presented to FOMEC by
universities according to the operating rules of FOMEC defined in its
operational manual. The resources of FOMEC are allocated through a
competitive selection process which will be organized twice a year, that
involves three stages. In the first stage, the Academic and Administrative
Coordination Departments will verify that the subprojects meet the eligibility
1. Basic and Natural Sciences, Engineering, Medical Sciences, Agronomy, Social sciences,
Art and Humanities.



-50-
Annex 3
criteria. In some cases additional information can be requested from
universities to complete their proposal. In the second stage the subprojects
are ranked by the Advisory Committees, based on their academic relevance,
excellence, and feasibility in relation to the pre-established priority criteria
with the assistance of the peer review committees for academic assessment.
In the third stage the Executive Council reaches a decision on financing. The
decision making process might consider some additional aspects of national
interest related to sectoral and regional balance and cohesion, as well as the
current policies and strategies of SUP. The eligibility and ranldng criteria
and the procedures for selection of subprojects would be made public to all
interested parties in advance.
11.   Conditions of eligibility. To use FOMEC, universities should meet
eligibility criteria, including: (i) accreditation by the CONEAU of the
graduate programs to be financed; (ii) availability of counterpart funding; (iii)
agreement by the Superior Council of the University of the proposal
presented; (iv) commitment to respect the rules and regulations of FOMEC
as specified in the FOMEC manual; (v) the legal accounting system within
the university; (vi) availability of an information system to monitor academic
performance; (vii) nomination of a person responsible for project
management to be the correspondent of PIU; (viii) commitment to improve
the curriculum and achieve progress in efficiency; and (ix) availability of
physical infrastructure.
12. Criteria for the selection process. The selection process would be based
on criteria which reflect the feasibility and the priority of universities'
proposals.
Feasibility Criteria
(i) Internal consistency: Indicates the quality of a project from the standpoint
of its internal coherence, the interaction among its components, the
relationship among the objectives, and the means of attaining them.
(ii! Availability of resources: Indicates the capacity to execute a project and
sustain the new situation in the future, from the standpoint of the availability
of human resources, financing resources, and information resources. It takes
into account the relationship of each resource to the proposed objectives and
the relationship among the different resources (for example, the number of
human resources qualified to use equipment properly and intensively), the
suitability of the infrastructure for the number of persons and the proposed
equipment, and the relationship between equipment already available and the
equipment requested.
(iii) Explicit goals and targets: Indicates the existence of clearly-defined
quantitative and qualitative goals and targets at the institutional level that
could evaluate the implementation process and the impact of the subproject.



-51-
Annex 
(iv) Institutional relevance: Considers the declared objectives of the
institution, its policies, and the expected results of the subproject.
Priority Criteria
(v! Quality and academic excellence: Academic excellence will be assessed in
a peer review process and will include the following aspects: scientific
quality of teaching staff, publications, critical mass sufficient to become a
center of excellence, internal efficiency of the academic program, and
ranking in the accreditation process.
(vi! Efficiency: Indicates how and when the project will address the problem
detected, how it enhances the effective use of academic and financial
resources, and how it improves the efficiency of academic programs.
(vii) Impact: Relates to the expected results and the extent of the foreseeable
effects of the actions already undertaken in three areas: (i) regional impact,
to achieve regional balance in the university system; (ii) academic impact, to
fill the gaps in thematic coverage, consolidate the scientific and academic
capacity of the university system and strengthen centers of excellence; and
(iii) social impact in terms of labor market demand, and the relationship
between universities and society at large.
.viii) Consistency with national policies: Refers to the policy of SUP with
regard to: (i) concentration in centers of excellence versus dispersion; (ii)
integrated versus stand alone projects; (iii) creation of networks versus
projects with few linkages; and (iv) impact on undergraduate education
versus impact on graduate education and research.
Basic Sciences and Engineering Program
13.   Prerequisites for Basic Equipment are the following: (i) basic
equipment is to be used for teaching full-time students in the applicant unit,
similar units and/or services; (ii) applications for basic equipment will be
based on the modules defined for each discipline; (iii) proposals made by
similar departments in different academic units and/or which stem from an
agreement between faculties and/or universities will be given preference over
individual proposals. In addition, the following aspects will be considered: (i)
centralized use of laboratories; (ii) number of students with access to the
equipment requested (specifying the courses that will benefit them); (iii)
teaching hours and rank of the teaching staff; and (iv) justification of the
equipment and the impact that it vwuld have.
14.    For advanced eQuipment of greater complexity to be used to train
students in handling the equipment required for professional careers, the
following aspects will be considered: (i) teaching and research structure; (ii)
number of students with access to the equipment requested: (iii) justification
for the equipment and the impact that it wvuld have; and (iv) technical staff
responsible for the equipment.



-52-
Annex 3
15.   For scholarships at the graduate level the requirements are the
following: (i) maintain full-time teaching positions and salaries for doctoral
graduates and guarantee the necessary infrastructure and economic support
upon their return; (ii) candidates for doctoral scholarships must be under 35;
(iii) academic programs eligible to accept fellowship students and trainees
should have been accredited A, have a qualified teaching and research
structure, the capacity to develop postgraduate activities that lead to a
doctorate, accredited research plans and the capacity to publish in scientific
journals, preferably with international referees and offer teaching positions to
fellowship students. For scholarships in a foreign country, it should also be
demonstrated that the specialty cannot be studied satisfactorily in the country
and that there is need to cover that area. In engineering, departments
accepting fellowship students (accredited A) and departments with adequate
potential that need to be consolidated (accredited B) must have a curriculum
of five years with balanced and up-to-date contents (approximately 4,200
hours total).
Humanities, Social Sciences, and Health Sciences Graduate Education
Program
16. Scholarships for graduate studies would comply with the following
requirements: (i) scholarships will cover tuition fees and supplement the
salaries of their recipients to enable them to study full time; (ii) beneficiaries
should be full-time or half-time assistant professors, heads of practical studies
andlor grade-one assistant less than 35 years old; (ii) the university would
contract the candidate full-time during and after completion of his/her
graduate degree; (iii) the fellowship student must be studying in a department
or institute with an institutional project which will be evaluated by the
FOMEC, the individual qualification of the candidate being evaluated by the
university.
17.   Support for the improvement of other graduate programs would be
provided according to the ranking they have received in the accreditation
process and may include: (i) scholarships to individual students; (ii) grants
for a number of scholarships to be directly administered by the university;
(iii) library equipment and books; (iv) visiting professors for relatively
lengthy periods (1 year); and (v) technical assistance to formulate new
curricula or improve programs.



-53-                                       Annex 4
INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION OF THE PROJECT UNIT
l  lrcsidlciit's O)flicc I
Nlmnistr of Cuilitrc and
Edtcalion
Teconology and            Prograns and Evaliationi              University Policies                  National Evaluation
Coordination                  Secretaria                           Secrariat                         and Accreditation
Secretariatrtaia                                          ScrtaatCommission
Subsccretariat of                                                Subsccrctariat of
National Universities              University                                                        University
Coordination                                                       Planning
Natiotul Dircctoratc       IProject Impileicnitation             National Directoratc                  National Directorate
of University Affairs       Unit (GovcmmentllIlRD                   for Financc and                       of University
o= _nivcrsity A_Tirs _Projcct)                                       Information                            Planning
|Informaton and Statistics            FOMEC's Exccutive
Directorate                        Directorate Fnanc Directorate



-54-
Annex S
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project will be undertaken at three
distinct levels:
a.   Project: to assess the performance of the PIU in implementing the project,
to evaluate the effectiveness of each component of the project with respect
to their individual objectives and to monitor the progress in implementing
the reform and its global impact on higher education quality and efficiency.
b.   FOMEC: to monitor the institutional performance of this funding
mechanism, verify its transparency, and evaluate the results achieved by
the subprojects financed and their impact on quality and efficiency
improvements in beneficiary universities.
c.  Individual FOMEC Subprojects/Fellowships: Activities
under individual subprojects and scholarships would be
reported twice a year by universities and monitored by
FOMEC as part of its monitoring activities. Specifically
for multiple-year subprojects or fellowships, financial
accounts and performance would be submitted by the
recipients and be monitored on a semi-annual basis in
order to determine whether funding should be continued.
Project and FOMEC-Level Monitoring and Evaluation
2.        Purpose and Structure. Project-level monitoring and evaluation activities have
the following purposes:
a.  to monitor progress of project implementation as compared with the
original plan; and
b.  to evaluate the effectiveness of the Project with respect to its objectives to
establish a more competitive environment for the improvement of higher
education, and to provide, through FOMEC, the appropriate incentives for
continuous educational efficiency gains and quality enhancement.



-55-
Annex 5
To this end, four types of reports would be compiled, as described below.
3.   Baseline Report. SUP, through the Directorate for Information and Statistics, would
establish a permanent data base on the current status of undergraduate and graduate studies in
each discipline and by University. This would be based on data collected during project
preparation through the various studies financed under the PPF. These data would be
regularly updated through the improved information system financed under the project. The
annual baseline report will be used essentially as background information for supervision by
CIS of FOMEC, for the Mid-Term Review and for the implementation completion report.
The coverage of this report would include:
a.   Ouantitative Data on Undergraduate and Graduate Education collected by
SUP from the universities on their graduate and postgraduate programs in
basic science and engineering and postgraduate studies in all fields,
including intake, enrollments, and graduates by level, source of funding,
field, and average duration; and
b.   Quality and Efficiency Studies to be conducted by external consultants to
document the progress of the quality and efficiency of graduate education
and research activities in each discipline. For the duration of the project,
and in order to reduce costs, two disciplines would be chosen every year
for a systematic evaluation including visits in universities, student surveys
and international comparisons. For other disciplines, the monitoring and
evaluation of quality will be done through the standard data collected, peer
review meetings by disciplines and the results of the activity of the
CONEAU.
4.        Progress Reports. Progress reports, to be prepared twice a year, would consist
of two parts: (i) generic information to be compiled by the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) as part of its progress report on the status of project implementation; and (ii)
institutional performance and subproject information to be compiled by FOMEC semi-
annually and consolidated in an annual report prepared for supervision by CIS. The annual
progress report would include: (i) a summary of project activities including input and process
indicators; (ii) a summary of financial and physical commitments for each component and
program as compared with the original plan; (iii) a summary of the implementation issues;
(iv) an updated and reviewed project implementation schedule together with action plans for
the implementation of project components during the subsequent year; and (v) the expected
budget contribution to cover the investment and recurrent costs of the project for the next
fiscal year.FOMEC's report would include: (i) a summary of subproject and fellowship
program activities in terms of numbers of applications received and awards as compared with
the original plan, distribution of awards by institutions and fields, and source of funding; and
(ii) an evaluation of the institutional efficiency of FOMEC with indicators such as the



-56-
Annex S
administrative costs as percentage of total grants administered, number of grants per FOMEC
staff, and average process time for grant applications.
5.        Rport of CIS: Every year CIS will supervise FOMEC and produce a report
which would include recommendations. This external supervision will be based on the: (i)
annual FOMEC report; (ii) results of the external audit; (iii) in-depth study of a limited
number of subprojects and scholarships selected randomly; (iv) minutes of the Advisory
committees which rank the subprojects and scholarships; (v) visits and interviews in the
universities; and (vi) baseline information.
6.        Mid-term Review. The Mid-Term Review would be conducted by the PIU, with
contributions provided by external consultants financed under the Project, and would consist
of: (i) an evaluation of project activities and their effectiveness in terms of input, process
and selected outcome indicators (see Attachment to this Annex); (ii) a summary of the
financial and physical commitments as compared with the original plan for the institutional
strengthening component as well as FOMEC; (iii) a summary of implementation issues; and
(iv) a review of the institutional performance of FOMEC including verification of the
transparency and objectivity of its evaluation and selection procedures and assessment of the
impact of FOMEC on improving quality and efficiency. Based on the latter evaluation, a
decision will be reached to adjust or discontinue FOMEC financing with Bank resources.
7.        Implementation Completion Report. An Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) would be commissioned by the PIU, with support from extemal consultants, that
would review and evaluate the performance of the Project. Such an evaluation, in addition to
the topics included in the mid-term review, would include an assessment of the effectiveness
of SUP and CONEAU, as well as the operations of FOMEC. It would consist of a more in-
depth evaluation of the impact of the project on quality and efficiency in higher education,
including an assessment of the academic performance of programs financed compared with
others. Topics subject for a more in-depth analysis may include tracer studies on the
beneficiaries of the scholarship programs, surveys of curriculum changes, assessment of
research performance, and assessment of libraries.



-57-
Annex S
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
[                           Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Project Component        Input Indicators      Process Indicators        Outcome
Objectives                                                          Indicators
PROJECT                 -University budget      -Contribution of      -About US$2.5
SUSTAINABILITY                                  SUP budget to         million annualy
recurrent costs of   -US$30 milion
the project          annuaDy by end of
-Increase in the     the project
amount of the        (supplemental to the
university budget for   incentive program
investment and       for research).
scholarship allocated
through FOMEC
INSTITUTIONAL           -Number of days of      -Number of           -Effective
STRENGTHENING           training/number of      seminars organized    reorganization of
people trained         -Number of offices    services
rehabilitated and    -Adoption of best
Improvement of the      -Technical assistance   equipped             international
Planning and            provided in planning    -Participation in     practices in higher
Management Capacity    and management           seminars organized    education
of SUP'                 -Number of computers   -% of overseas         management
and amount of office    training/total       -Use of information
equipment              training              technology in SUP
-Four studies to       -Number of            -Flow of documents
reorganize a private   reorganization        produced and
monitoring system,     studies done during    distributed by SUP
filing, accountability,    the first twv years of
and legal services     the project
-Improvement of the
documentation
center on higher
education.
Improve the colection,    Number of             Number of             -% of universities
processing and          information services    universities with     processing and
publication of reliablc  equipped with         information systems    sending on time
data on the higher      computer and office     fully effective       statistical
education system        technology              (services equipped    information to SUP
through the                                     and staff trained)    -New variables or
implementation of a     Number of software      after the first and   data regularly
modern management       packages instaled       second years of       colected, processed
information and                                 project               and published on a
statistical data system  Number of days of      implementation        year to year basis
between universities and   training/number of                         -Distribution of
SUP                     people trained          Number of studies     Higher Education
on quality and cost    statistics to the
Volume of technical    carried out.          different categories
assistance used for                          of public
studies                                     -Availability and
reliability of
information on cost
and internal and
extemal efficiency
by disciplines and
universities



-58-
Annex
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Project Component       Input Indicaton      Process Indicaton        Outcome
Obwives                                                          Indicaton
Prepc= a more efficient  Technical asistance  -Number of           -% of budget
use of resources       provided to            assessment of cost    allocated through
though a Univenity     univenities to         done                 the methodology
Budget Allocation      claborte cost.         -Number of           developed
System                                        disciplines in which   -Availability of the
Number of study toun   costs am assessed   opertion manual
for costing
-Reduction of the
deviation betwveen
universities from a
mean standard mtio
(cost, teacher,
student, investment/
recurrent)
-Impact of the
allocation system on
coat efficiency
Promote scientifi      -Equipment 'RISC-'    -Process time to      -Number of users
communcation between   for four univenities of   purhase equipment   accssirg the RIU
univenities through    the centmal netwrk     -Number of people    -%blume of
RlUb                   and for the 29         trained              information through
univenities using RIU   -limo for systems to   RIU
-Technical assistance  be fully opeational   -Number of
in participatirg     universities
univenities         regularly
participating to
operating cost



-59-
Anpa 5
[__________________    Monitoring and Evluation Indicators
Project Component       Input Indicators     Proes Indicators         Outcome
Objectives                                                      oIndicas
Promote qualiy in      -Number of peer        -Time for CONEAJ   -Number of
higher education       review committees by   to be fuly           acrdion
through the            discipline established    opertional        decision takn by
establishment of a     -Number of meetinp     -Ratio between the   CONEAU and
permanent evaluation   of the National        number of            number of extrnal
and accreditation       Commission for        applications for     evaluations done
process of programs    Evaluation and         accreditation and the   -Ratio between
and univenities        Accreditation          number of graduate    programs accredited
CONEAUJ"               -Number of requests    programs             and non-accedited
for accreditation by  -Ratio between the    -Impact on
discipline and level  number of reques     restructurivg and on
-Number of external    for extemal         quality of grdualt
evaluations           evaluation and the   programs
-Number of days of    number of
technical assistance for   universities
the accreditation     -Time to process an
process               application for
-Number of days of    accreditation and for
technical assistance for  evaluation
the external evaluation   -Ratio between the
number of meeting
of the peer review
committee and the
number of
accreditations
rejected or apprvod
-Ratio between field
visits and
ealuations carried
out
SQMEC                  Number of meetings     Process time per     -Beneficiary
by FOMEC              grant (selection,    sisaction:
Committees            contracting)         knowledge of
Funding quality and                                                POMEC progrms,
efficiency improvement    Attendance at       Number of grants     adequacy of
for universities through    meetings          per pennanent saff    POMEC procedurs
a competitive and                                                  to univesities'
transparent selection  Administrative costs                        needs and
procedure              by project processed                        pereption of
and g8rnt awarded:                         fairness of selection
process
-% of applications
with counterpart                           Operation manual
funding available                          updated regularly,
distributed, and
Technical assistance                       adopted
used for project
evaluation                                 Annual reports
published and
distributod
Coverage of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _   P rog am s



-60-
Annex 5
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Project Component         Input Indicators      Process Indicators        Outcome
Objectives                                                           Indicators
In BSE'f, improving the    Generl
quality of academic
program as a whole       -Number of projects     -Success rate: ratio   -Relative academic
linking the provision of   presented (by         between application    performance of
inputs to curriculum     discipline and          and awards (by        programs financed
changes and efficiency   institution)            discipline)           compare with others
gains at graduate and                            -Ratio between        (dissertation
undergaduate level                              integrated projects    completed,
and application (in   evaluation of
In Humanities, Social                            BSE)                  enrollment, average
Sciences, and Health                            -Average cost of       exam results,
Sciences, improve the                            projects (by          average duration of
quality of graduate                              discipline)           program
programs to consolidate                          -Relation between     completion, internal
quality faculty and                              the amount of the     efficiency rate,
teaching                                         application and the   tracer survey of
financing awerded     graduates)
-Distribution of      -Curriculum
subprojects by        changes (% of new
discipline and        courses offered, %
categories of support   of shortening of
(e.g. scholarships,   undergraduate
equipment).           studies)
-Research
performance of
graduate programs
financed
(publication,
collaborative
research, grants
obtained, full-time
research staff,
research in vacancy
area
Scholarship pro2ram                           -Scientific
cooperation with
-Number of                                    foreign institutions
scholarships (by
category and            -Average cost of
discipline, including  training (by category   -% of faculty with a
postdoctoral            and discipline)       graduate degree by
fellowships)           -characteristics of    discipline
beneficiaries by age,   -% of scholarship
status, level, sex,   beneficiaries who
salary level          successfully
completed their
degrees
-% of non-faculty
scholarship
beneficiaries who
become faculties
when finishing their
scholarship.



-61-
Annex S
| ___________________    Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Proiect Component         Input Indicators      Process Indicators        Outcome
Objectives                                                           Indicators
Trainine vroeram
-Number of months of   Academic exchange    -Joint research or
visiting professors (by                       training projects
discipline)                                   -Number of courses
and/or seminars
-Number of months of                          delivered by
local professor's                             visiting professon  |
exchange (by                                  -Number of courses
discipline)                                   and/or seminars
delivered by local
visiting professors
-Number of months of   -Average cost of       -% of trained
training or number of   training (by          people among
people trained (by      category)             graduate students
discipline)                                   (by graduatel
program)
-% of fLculty
members trained
-Number of training
courses for high                              -% of high school
school teachers                              teachers trained
-Number of textbooks    -Average cost of      -Textbooks
edition                textbook production    published
-Volume of financial                          -Number of faculty
support for                                   members
development of new                            incorporated.
groups in small and
medium size
departments (by
discipline).                                                      l



-62-
Annex 5
|                           Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Project Component        Input Indicators      Process Indicators        Outcome
Objectives                                                          Indicators
Equipment (BSE)
-Value of              -Average cost of      -Number of
undergraduatr          equipment (by level   laboratories
equipment (by level    and discipline)       installed
and discipline)                              -Availability and
-Value of equipment                          use of laboratories
for graduate studies                         (quantity of students
(by discipline)                              using the
equipment, hours of
laboratory work in
curriculum)
-% of thesis in
experimental fields
among the total
number of thesis
-Training courses for    -Average cost of    -% of faculty
faculty users of the   training              trained
financed equipment
(by discipline and
institution)
Libry Program
-Number of libraries    -Average cost of     -% of libraries fully
financed and           library rehabilitation    rehabilitated
documentation centers   by categories        -Use of libraries
(by discipline)        support (e.g. books,   financed compared
-Value of equipment    equipment,            to others
-Number of books       coUections)           -%of libraries
-Number of joumal                            mvrking in netwvrk
colections                                   -% of joumal
collections
completed
compared to
existing collections
/a SUP - Secretariat of University Policy
/b RIU - Interuniversity Netmrk
/c RISC - Name of the software to be purchased
/d CONEAU - National Commission for University Evaluation and Accreditation
/e FOMEC - Fund for Enhancement of Educational Quality
If BSE - Basic Science and Engineering



-63-                                                 Annex 6
SUMJMARY COST TABLE at
oef Twl             Fereign
LOCAL       FOREIGN            TOTAL  SE Cast            Exchxnee
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
sPu
Informatica Equipment & Furniru.                    100            209             309                         as
Librwies                                             31             93             124                         75
Tech. Aaistrn & Studie                             6B0             300             990                         31
Scholwehipe & Trmnir                                397            372             768                        48
Smin  Infresructure Rehabilitton                     35              0              35                         0
Subtotal                                            1,243           974            2,216       0.8              44
CONEAU
Inflrrmaeti  & Offce Equipment                        0             43              43                         99
Technical Aeistanoe                               5,563          1,421            6,984                        21
Course  & Workshops                                 284             44             329                         25
Small Infragructure Rehnitation                      45              0              45                          0
Incremental  current Expwidrisee                  2.850             24            2,874                         1
SubtotW                                             8,743          1,531          10,274       3.8              15
SIEAR
Information Equipmwnt & Furireu                     200          4,746           4,948                        96
Cons. Swrvi: Tech. Asit., Studih & Trainin        1,446             31            1,477                         2
Coure e   Worfkhops                                   9              0               8                         0
SmalF tntrasrucuore Rhialtation                     500              0             500                         0
Inwomental Recurrent Expendiree_                     so              0              so                          0
Subtotal                                           2,214          4,777            6,991       2.8             e6
RIU
Informatlics Equipment                                0           1,200           1,200                       100
Technical Aeiistance                                244              0             244                         0
Incremental Rcurrent Expenditures                   178            113             290                        39
Proqect Operating Expendirure                        70              0              70                         0
Subtotal                                             492           1,313           1,804       0.7              73
FOMEC MANAGEMENT
Inlemtice Equipment                                   0             45              45                       100
Tehnical Asxiatance                               1,620             90            1,710                         5
Incrementl Recurrent Expendirure                  3.690              0            3,f90                        0
Subotalr                                            5,310           135            5,445        2.0              2
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (PCU)
Equipment & Furniture                                cO             70             130                        54
Technical Aeeistarce                              3,534              0            3.534                        0
Pro1ect Opeatkin Expenditurew                       455              0             455                         0
Subtotal                                           4,049             70            4,119        1.5              2
TOTAL INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                 22.050           8,799          30,849       11.5             29
FOMEC
BASIC SCIENCES A ENGINEERING
Inlormetics Equipment & Furnmue                  1,250          5,423           6,673                        81
Laboretorme                                     10,135         57,408          67,542                        85
Libre"                                           2,382          5,879           9,061                        70
Core. Servicee: Tech. Aseiit., Sudi& Treeurn     3.952          1,006           4,858                        21
Scholwispe A Trinin                             51,118          9,558          60,676                        16
Incremental Reurrent Expnditure                  3,990            400           4,390                         9
Prolept Opratin Expendrirure                    12,310              0          12,310                         0
Subtotal                                         95,027         79.473          164,500      61.1             48
HUMIANITiES A HEALTH SCIENCES
end FACULTY POSTGRADUATE STUDOES
Librw.e                                            630          3,570           4,200                        85
Cone. Swrveiae: Tech. Asitwa & Trektk           11,138              0          11,138                         0
Schobemir e   T&rww                             53,910          4,810          58,590                         8
Subtotal                                         65,677          8.250           73,927      27.5             11
TOTAL FOMEC                                      150,704          97,723         238,427      88.5              37
TOTAL PROJECT BASEUNE COST                       172,755          9f,522         269,276     100.0              36
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                              171            348             519
PRICE CONTiNGENCIES                               2.820            396            3,205
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               175.745          97,255         273,000
ad Total may nclt edd due to roundg



-64-                         Annex 7
ARGENTINA
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Operational Manual of FOMEC
2.    University Information System
-Design of the system
-Cost of the system
3.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.    Draft Govemmental Decrees
-Declaration of higher education reform program as in the
national interest
-Approving the loan agreement
-Establishing FOMEC
-Establishing the PIU
-Establishing the organizational structure of FOMEC
5.    Draft Decisions of SUP
-Approving the job descriptions of PIU staff
-Approving the job descriptions of FOMEC staff
-Establishing the CNA
6.    CONEAU
-Organizational structure
-Evaluation process and criteria
-Draft Decree establishing CONEAU
7.    Analysis of teaching staff and potential demand of graduate studies
8.    Six studies to assess the needs in Basic Sciences and Engineering
9.    Analysis of the labor market demand for engineers
10.  Impact of FOMEC on university financing
11.   Policy Letter on Higher Education












IMAGING
Report No:       13935 AR
Type: SAR



