Page  1
July 20, 1998
Dr. Roque B. Fernández 
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services  
Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services  
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
Buenos Aires Argentina
Re:
Higher Education Reform Project
(Loan 3921-AR; 3921-A-AR) Amendment   
Dear Dr. Fernández:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Higher Education Reform Project) between the 
Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) dated December 5, 1995 (the Loan Agreement).  Whenever used in 
this letter, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings set forth therein.
Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank 
hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Article III, Section 3.08:
(a)   a new subparagraph (b) is added to read as follows:
"(b)   not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year of Project  
execution submit to the Bank, for approval, the proposed scholarships to be 
carried out in the Following months"; and
(b)   the remaining subparagraphs are redesignated accordingly.
2.
The table in paragraph I of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
as set forth in the Annex to this letter.
3.
In Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement:
(a)
Part C, paragraph I is amended to read as follows: "Furniture, library 
items, office equipment, and laboratory and pedagogic equipment and materials 
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $22,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Bank.";
(b)
Part C, paragraph 2 is deleted and paragraphs 3 and 4 of Part C are 
renumbered 2 and 3, respectively.
(c)
in Part D, the first sentence of paragraph I (a) is amended to read as 
follows: "With respect to each contract for goods procured pursuant to Part A hereof 
and the first contract for goods procured by universities in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.06 (b) of this agreement and pursuant to Part C. I hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original, the amendments will have retroactive effect as of March 
1, 1998.
Sincerely,
/s/ Myrna Alexander 
    Director 
    Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Page  2
AGREED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
/s/ Roque B. Fernández
    Authorized Representative
Date: December 28, 1998
