Page  1
May 13, 1998
Dr. Roque B. Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos 
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
Buenos Aires 
Argentina
Re:    Higher Education Reform Project
(Loan 3921-AR) Amendment   
Dear Dr. Fernández:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Higher Education Reform Project) between the 
Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) dated December 5, 1995 (the Loan Agreement).  Whenever used in 
this letter, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings set forth therein.
Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank 
hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 3.04 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c)
(i) establish and thereafter maintain CONEAU, as a decentralized 
entity of the Borrower responsible for carrying out institutional evaluations 
and accreditations of undergradduate programs, for the execution of Part A.2 
of the Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
and (ii) have a permanent executive director for CONEAU, to be selected 
through a public process and on the basis of qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank. The President of CONEAU, assisted by its executive 
director, shall be responsible for the coordination between CONEAU and PIU on 
a 
matter related to the disbursement of the proceeds of the loan."
2.
Section 3.05 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.05. CONEAU shall be responsible for the institutional 
evaluation and for the 
accreditation of graduate  programs and other 
academic 
programs for government regulated professions in accordance with the 
Borrower’s Ley de Educación Superior."
3.
Section 5.01 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) all members of CONEAU’s executive council have been designated, and 
CONEAU has started operations;"
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original, the amendments will become effective as of the date of 
this letter
Sincerely,
/s/ Myrna Alexander 
    Director 
    Argentina, Chile and Uruguay 
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  2
/s/ Roque B. Fernández
    Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services
c.c.: Mr. Eduardo Sanchez Martinez
      Secretary of University Policy
      Ministry of Culture and Education 
