Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6691-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
May 6,'1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    a Bolivian Peso ($B)  -  until 12/31/86
m  Boliviano ($B)       -  after 01/01/87
$b 1,923,000.00  -  US$ 1.00              -  at    12/31/86
$b  2.00         =  US$ 1.00              -  at    03/31/87
SDR 1.00          =  US$ 1.278            -  at    03/31/87
US$ 1.00          =  SDR 0.113            -  at    03/31/87
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAB      -   Banco Agricola de Bolivia
BCB      -   Banco Central de Boliv.a
BANEST   -   Banco del Estado
BAMIN    -   Banco Minera de Bolivia
CGR      -   Contraloria General de la Republica
COFADENA -   Corporacion de las FF.AA. para el Desarrollo Nacional
COMIBOL  -   Corporacion Minera de Bolivia
ENDE     -   Empresa Nacional de Electricidad
ENFE     -   Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
ENAF     -   Empresa Nacional de Fundiciones
ENTEL    -   Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
FONEM    -   Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Minera
INE      -   Instituto Nacional de Estadistica
IDB      -   Interamerican Development Bank
LAB      -   Lloyd Aereo Boliviano
SIDERSA  -   Siderurgica Sociedad
SAFCO    -   Sistema de Administrdcion Financiera y Control
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
YPFB     -   Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos



POR oMcIAL USE ONLy
STAll APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
PUBLIC PINANCIAQ             OPUATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Is PROJECT SUNNARY    oeCee.o,,ee,.,e.og..eo,e.e..e,..                    1
II.  WOLIVIA'S PUBLIC SECTOR  .................* ....    e  o..           3
A.  Policy Framework ................. 3...............,              3
3.  Size and Structure of Public Sector .....e.,o.e.,e.e              4
C.  Key Central Entities  7,***..*****..                              7
III.  THE PROJECT wo        *.eate*e* eev04e****4.                         10
A.  Project Origin and Objectives         .........................  10
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ....e...............              10
C.  Project Components *.....e.. ....................e               11
(i)    Financial Administration and Control System *.          11
(ii)   Tax Adminisiration        ..........................    13
(iii)  Banking System Reforms .................                14
D.  Project Cost and Financing ..........................            16
E.  Justification .......     ..................................     18
F.  Project Risks .......      .........................,......      18
IV.  PROJECT EXECUTION ....,..........................e.eo,..             20
A.  Organization and Management ........................             20
B.  Procurement and Consultant Services ...................          21
C.  Effectiveness, Disbursements, Accounts and Audits .....          21
V.  RECODUNDATIONS .                                                     22
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Bolivia in January 1987.   The appraisal mission comprised N.
Barry, B. Buyck, E. Gomez-Eernandini (LCPPS), Messrs. T. Fauquier and C.
Vallejo (Consultants). Mr. J. Rosenblut (LCPPS), Mr. N. Carter and Ms.
E. Javier (LC2) participated in preparation missions.
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefformaoce
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofltion.



Page no.
Sise and Structure of Public Sector
1.1   Organizational Chart of Major Government Entities ,,.....           24
1.2   Organizational Structure of Key Central Entities *o****400          25
1.3   Salary Structure - Government of Bolivia,
Monthly Salary for Selected Entities *  **********.*            27
1.4   Number of Public Sector Employees .....................             28
Financlal Administration and Control Systen
2.1   SAFCO - Summary Implementation Schedule.....,.............          29
2.2   SAFCO - Expected Results..............................,...           34
2.3   SAFCO - Summary of Consultants by Qualifications
and Rssponsibilities.............................         38
2.4   SAFCO - Suimary Terms of Reference.e....................o..          42
2.5   SAFCO - Main Problems with Accounting and AIS Systems in 18
Decentralized Entities Analyzed Under PPF .o.......       51
2.6   SAFCO - Breakdown of Estimated Costs and
Sources of Finance ................. oo    ooooo..oo      52
Tax Administration
3.1   Analysis of Bolivian 1986 Tax Reform ...     ...................    53
3.2   Tax Administration, Phase II
Activities and Summary TOR .................0..........         60
3.3   Tax Administration, Phase II
Consultants Requirements and Costs  ........., .........        66
3.4   Tax Administration, ,Phase I - PPF Inputs       ..................  68



EgAmk4 system
4.1   Central Bank of Bolivia - Key Actions in Reorganization ...             73
4.2   Central Bank of Bolivia - Introduction of
New Accounting Systems ****..*.*.............,.                    74
4.3   Central Bank of Bolivia - Action Program for
Economics Department ........                                      76
4.4   Central Bank of Bolivia - Action Program for
Bank Inspection                       e                            77
4.5   Banking System Reform Component -
Consultancy Requirements and Costs .........,........              78
4.6   Banking System Component - Diagnoses
Financed under PFF  *      *.**....,,.*.*.**,*  ..,, *¢            79
Overal1 Project
5.1   Estimated Disbursement Schedule ...,.......,..e.....,..*.              83
5.2   Summary Cost Table      e                                              84
5.3   Summary of Procurement Procedures ............e........                85



BOLIVIA
PUBLIC lIIUNCIAL $AM&GRNKW OPKRhTION
1.  PROJBC(  SUNAY
Borrower:       Goverrment of Bolivia
Execuitig       Central Hinistries, Controller General's Office, and Central
4 encies:       Bank of Bolivia
Amount:         SDR 9.0 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Project         The proposed operation is designed to implement key improve-
Descrilptio:    ments in the structure, staff and systems for public sector
resource mobilization and use.   Specific objectives are to:
(a) install financial information, administration and control
systems, and build related staff capabilities in the most
important  ministries  and  public  entities;  (b)  improve
financial    intermediation,   through   reorganization   and
improvements in the Central Bank of Bolivia and the develop-
ment banks; and (c) overhaul tax administration, to enable
successful implementation of the 1986 tax reform.   IDA would
fund consultants, core fixed contract personnel, foreign
equipment and materials to support implementation of agreed
action programs.
Benefits:       The institutional reforms and systems improvements incorpora-
ted in the proposed Public Financial Management Operation are
essential to sustaining the success of the New Economic Policy
of the Government of Bolivia. In the project period, central
ministries and about 12 public entities which account for
about 60% of public financial flows would have basic, reliable
and timely accounting, cash management and budget systems in
place, and a core of at least 300 qualified staff operating
these systems. The severe weaknesses in these basic functions
make systematic economic management virtually impossible at
present.   The reform in tax administration are expected to
result in dramatic increases over historically poor tax
collections. The major restructuring being implemented in the
Central Bank and planned for the development banks, combined
with financial policy measures taken and planned, should
rationalize and strengthen the banking system substantially.



-2-
liamb:          The Public Financtal Management Operation is vulnerable to the
same Institutional weaknesses which the project is designed to
address.  Also, the success of the operation depends on the
level   of   commitment   and   leadership   present   in  this
Government.  These risks have been reduced by limiting this
initial operatlon to a relatively short period, with most
major activities planned for the first two years.   Project
preparation has been Intensive, with detailed action programs
agreed and already initiated.   The project scope has been
pruned   to  match   implementation  capabilities.        Stable
organisational arravngements have been incorporated to reduce
the project's vulnerability to personnel changes.  The Public
Financial Management Operation is given top prlority by the
Government of Bolivla.
10131           LOCAL           TOTAL
stilmted Costs:
i)    Financial Administration           5,910            8,100         14,010
and Control System
iI)   Tax Administration                 2,120            2,530          4,650
iii)  Banking System Reforms              1,330           2,620          3,950
vi)   Project Preparation                 1,150             350          1,500
v)    UNDP-OPE Administration               450              --            450
Total ProJect Cost:               10,960           13,600         24,560
nsing Plan:
Government                                 -            8,400          8,4GO/
IDA                                    9,450            2,050         11,500
IDB/UNDP (parallel)                    1,510               90          1,600
USAID (parallel)                          -             3,060          3,060
Total:                            10,960           13,600         24,560
IDA n SCAL YEARS
Estimated Disbut!emtet            1988        1989        1990
Annual                          3,400       4,800       3,300
Cumulative                      3,400       8,200      11,500
1/  Less than 4% of Government contribution,  for staff and facilities,  is
incremental.
2/ Conservative disbursement schedule utilized due to historical experience
in  technical  assistance  operations.    Actual  implementation  programs
reflect implementation periods of about two years.



-3-
it. BOLIVIA' S PUBLIC SECTOR
A. Policy Framework
2.01       When the Paz Estenssoro Government took office in August 1985, the
economy of Bolivia was in chaos. Inflation had been over 24,0001 in the prior
twelve months. The official exchange rate was severely overvalued; by August
1985, the parallel rate was over fifteen times the official rate. The accumu-
lation of arrears on public external debt had reached US$1 billion, over 201
of GDP.   Imports had dropped to less than two-thirds of the average 1979-81
level. GDP, exports, and investment had declined for four years; from 1980 to
1984, GDP fell by 162 and per capita GDP by 272.  With inflation and a week
apparatus for tax collection, central tax and customs revenues dropped to
about 3% of GDP in 1984 and 1985.   From 1983 to 1985, the public sector
operated without budgets; spending was uncontrolled, accommodated by monetary
expansion.
2.02      The role of the state increased markedly in the 1980 to 1984 period.
Efficiency of key public entities deteriorated steadily, with frequent
Government changes eroding controls and support. Public enterprise output and
transfers to the Central Government declined, and the burden of public
external borrowings increased dramatically.   Public employment continued to
rise by about 8% annually, reaching about 237,000 in 1985. The public sector
salary bill grew to dominate public expenditures, contributing significantly
to the deficit.   By the end of 1984, the consolidated public sector deficit
had reached 29% of GDP.   At the same time,  real public sector salaries
declined precipitously, leading to a serious deterioration in staff morale and
productivity. Many qualified civil servants joined the private sector, local-
ly and abroad. These public sectcor management problems resulted in reduced
Government revenues, uncontrolled current expenditures, and poor project
implementation.
2.03         New Economic Policy (NEP).   Beginning in August 1985, the new
Government adopted a bold economic reform program, the New Economic Policy, to
stabilize the economy and to launch structural reforms which would lay the
foundatio,a for resuming economic growth.   The primary objectives of the
program are to control inflation, cut fiscal deficits, restore external
balances, improve the efficiency of a reduced public sector, and create the
setting for private sector growth.   A market-oriented exchange adjustment
mechanism was established. Reforms in the trade regime included a uniform 20X
import tariff. Important measures taken in 1986 included a major tax reform
and legislation on public employment.
2.04       Performance.   The record of the Government's first 20 months in
office is extraordinary.  The stabilization policies introduced in August 1985
have been implemented with vigor. Growth in the public sector wage bill and
Government spending has been checked. The deficit of the non-financial public
sector has been reduced from 29% of GDP in 1934 to an estimated 4% in 1986.
The exchange rate is stable and unified, with the gap between the official and
parallel rates virtually eliminated.   Inflation has averaged 2% during the
past 12 months, down from 60% per month in the first half of 1985. Signifi-
cant progress has been made in freeing prices, and some steps have been taken
to improve the efficiency of public sector operations.



- 4 -
2.05        Instituticaal Measures.  With incisive stabilization policies in
place, Government now' is addressing tk.e severe institutional constraints which
threaten to undermine implementation of the economic program. The historical
pattern of increasing the number and reducing the salaries of civil servants
has been reversed. In addition to reductions of redundant staff, 1986 legis-
lation fixes the total salary and wage bill for a public entity as a means of
encouraging reduced numbers and improved salarieR.  Tight fiscal constraints
preclude significant across-the-board increases in public sector salaries
until the tax reform and staff reduction programs are implemented successful-
ly. In the short term, the Government is instituting a program to pay
trained, qualified managers and technical specialists more as a means to
improve management capabilities and performance. Particular attention will be
given to improving financial management systems and capabilities-accounting,
cash management, budget programming and execution-in key ministries and
public entities.   These basic moves are prerequisites to building coherent
financial decision-making, control, and restructuring programs in Bolivia.
2.06       Another top priority is to implement the May 1986 tax reform.  The
1986 tax legislation embodies: major simplification in the number of taxes,
focussing on value added and wealth; use of the banking system network for
collections; and more effective auditing and non-compliance actions. Expedi-
tious implementation of the tar. reform is crucial if stabilization measures
are to be sustained and growth resumed. The Government's success in balancing
revenues and expenditures has been achieved by vtrtual elimination of public
investment, sharp reduction in counterpart funding, and tight central cash
management as a means of meeting government payrolls. The third institutional
reform area encompasses major restructuring of the banking system, to
establish a sound framework for deposit mobilization and lending. In February
1987, GOB initiated this reform with a major overhaul of the Central Bank to:
limit its role to central banking functions; reduce staff to efficient levels;
install sound accounting and internal control systems; and establish a solid
banking  inspection  function.    The  proposed  Public  Financial  Management
Operation has been designed to:   improve public financial management and
control systems and capabilities; implement the tax reform; and restructure
the main public financial institutions.
B. Size and Structure of Public Sector
2.07       Annexes 1,1 to 1.4 provide organizational charts of the Government
of Bolivia and relevant data on the size and structure of the public sector.,/
Beginning with the 1952 revolution, the state assumed a major role in the
economy.  Public enterprises dominate key sectors, notably in mining, energy
and communications.  On average three entities, principally in the decentra-
lized sector, have been created annually since 1969; the number of public
entities has grown to approximately 520. The prevailing structure of central
and line ministries, the decentralized sector and regional administration was
established in 1972.   In 1973, the administrative career and the national
1/ Data presented in this chapter are based upon the limited and often incon-
sistent inform&zion available on structure, staffing, salaries and expen-
ditures in the Bolivian public sector.



-5-
personnel system were installed. Performance of key entities has deteriorated
steadily due to frequent political and management changes, erosion in both
salary structures and controls, and inadequacies in basic financial and
operating  systems.    Many  Government  entities  operate  without  coherent
standards and norms; most lack reliable and timely budgetting, cash
management,  and  internal  control  systems,    The  scarcity  of  trained  and
motivated staff at middle levels has become a serious constraint to efficient
public financial management.
2.08        Central Government.  Policies are made by the President and five
Ministerial Councils.'/  Bolivia has 16 ministries, a large number given the
size of the economy.  The Office of the Controller General of the Republic is
responsible for external control and auditing functions and for establishing
norms for interual controls,
2.09        The decentralized sector consists of public institutions, wholly
owned and mixed enterprises. Decentralized entities fall under the relevant
sectoral ministries but have been established as separate juridical bodies,
with legal and administrative autonomy and their own capital base. The number
of decentralized public entities grew rapidly between 1977 and 1985, public
institutions from 89 to 103, and wholly or partly owned Government enterprises
from 48 to 70.
2.10      Public service institutions include the Central Bank of Bolivia, the
Bolivian Social Security Institute (IBSS) under which 27 independent social
security funds operate, the National Institute of Statistics (INE), the
National Institute for Preinvestment (INALPRE), the National Institute of
Investment (INI). Mixed and wholly owned public enterprises are expected to
provide gcods and services at a profit.   The Government controls 100% of
mineral exploration (ENAF), railways (ENFE), and telecommunications (ENTEL);
80% of the hydrocarbon sector (YPFB); 70% of air transport (LAB) and of the
electrical energy sector (ENDE); between 65% and 70% of the mining industry
(COMIBOL) and over half the assets of banking system.   COMIBOL, YPFB, LAB,
ENDE, ENFE, ENTEL and ENAF are the most important public and mixed enter-
prises.   They are major investors and exporters, and important sources of
foreign exchange and tax revenues.
2.11        Regional  Administration.    Bolivia's  nine  regions-in  La  Paz,
Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, Potosi, Oruro, Santa Cruz, Tarija, Beni and Pando-
each operates with regional, departmental and local administrations. In 1986,
the Bolivian Development Corporation (CBF) was dissolved; its 22 subsidiary
enterprises were transferred to the Regional Development Corporations in an
effort to decentralize enterprise operations and increase commercial
pressures. The Regional Development Corporations are operating agribusiness,
cement and textile plants, with mixed results.   Government is considering
means to sell or liquidate several of these enterprises.
I/ Council of Ministers of State; Council for Economic Affairs and Planning
(CONEPLAN); Council for Political and Social Affairs (CONAPOL); National
Security Council (CONASE); and Reactivation and Stabilization Council,
created by the present Government.



- 6 -
2.12      Number of Employees,  From 1971 to 1985, the total Government work
force more than doubled, from 115,061 to 237,130 (Annex 1.4).  The Central
Government accounts for 56%; the decentralized entities, 38%; and regional and
local  administration,  6%.    Growth  has  been  most  rapid  in  the  Central
Government.   The expansion of public sector employment was arrested in the
first half of 1986, when the total number of public employees was reduced by
about 40,000 persons or 17%, falling to 197,000. About 25% of these lay-offs
were  in COMIBOL,  the mining company.   While some have  found employment
elsewhere in the public sector, the Ministry of Planning indicates that total
public sector employment4is still under 200,000.
2.13       Salary Structure and Level.  While information is inconsistent and
incomplete, indications are that salaries, wages and emoluments equal roughly
80% of total public expenditures.   Yet, real salaries in the public secto.
have deteriorated substantially with hyperinflation. The lowest civil service
wage is B$43 (US$21) per month; the highest Central Government sala:y is B$380
(US$190), paid to a director. Wage and salary levels differ among ministries,
public institutions and public enterprises. The decentralized sector has more
flexibility in determining pay scales; a profit sharing provision was intro-
duced for selected public enterprises in July 1986. Wages and salaries in the
mining company, COMIBOL, range from US$40 to US$430 equivalent and in the
national airline (LAB) from US$74 to US$677. The Director of Public Adminis-
tration, Ministry of Planning, estimates that the salaries for equivalent jobs
in the private sector are on average 300% higher than public sector salaries.
2.14      The Paz Estenssoro Government has taken several measures to rationa-
lize public salary structure and levels.  Expenditures on salaries and wages
were frozen initially and agencies were required to prepare programs for
reduction of employment. New legislation established incentives for voluntary
resignation of workers with severance pay equivalent to three months salary if
paid at once, or six months salary if paid over a six month period, in
addition to normal social security. In November 1985, a Decree was issued to
bring the structure and levels of public sector salaries and wages in line
with the financial capacities of the Central Government and public enter-
prises.   The minimum wage was doubled to the equivalent of about US$15 per
month. The Decree also abolished the system for providing bonuses and phased
out payments in kind through subsidized foodttores. Until May 1986, a ceiling
was set on the expenditure bill on salaries and wages at the nominal July 1985
level plus 25%.  This formula had the positive feature of encouraging public
entities to reduce staff as the only means to achieve individual salary and
wage increases,  In July 1986, a scaled salary increase was granted, whereby
the workers in tae lowest wage levels received a 33% increase, and those
earning more than US$150 equivalent per month would get no increase. Agencies
interpreted the Decree loosely, with several granting increases beyond the
established limits, thus threatening the fragile fiscal balance. As a conse-
'quence, the Government's economic team decided in August 1986 to tighten
controls on salary and wage expenditures.   In particular, salary increases
will be reviewed and those which exceeded legal provisions will be adjusted.
Payrolls of public entities now are controlled by the Treasury.



-7-
C. Key Central Entities
2.15         Ministry of Finance.   Organization charts on the key Central
Government entities--Ministries of Finance, -Planning and Coordination, Office
of the Controller General of the Republic, and Central Bank-are provided in
Annex 1.2. The Ministry of Finance has five major divisions: General Coordi-
nation, Financial Policy, Treasury, Budget Accounting and Management Control,
and Tax Collection.  Employment totals 2,032.  The primary functions of the
Ministry of Finance, as outlined in the 1972 executive branch law and other
legislation, are to: develop the Government's financial policy and manage the
state's financial resources; program, execute and evaluate public sector
budgets; perform treasury functions of cash and debt management; and oversee
public accounting and controls of public entities.
2.16       Actual responsibilities and operations of the Ministry of Finance
differ markedly from its lega'ly established functions.   By default,  some
functions are performed by others. The Central Bank of Bolivia possesses what
capabilities and systems exist in foreign debt monitoring and management. As
a result of its irregular roles as commercial banker for public enterprises,
the Central Bank also has (unreliable) cash flow data on decentralized public
entities.   Financial sector policies are being determined by the economic
team,  under the Minister of Planning and Coordination.   The function of
overseeing public accounting practices and consolidating public accounting
information is not being done.   Internal allocation of responsibilities for
those functions which are being performed by the Ministry of finance are not
delineated clearly. Extreme fiscal constraints and determination in sectoral
strategy formulation, investment planning, and project monitoring (para. 2.19)
has given the Ministry of Finance nearly complete de facto responsibility for
programming and execution of the Central Government budget.  The Ministry of
Finance  reinstated  an Annual  budget  in  1986.   However,  inadequacies  in
information on budgets, operations, and financial performance of public
entities make efficient resource allocation and coherent budget programming
decisions extremely difficult.  Also, while responsibilities for budget rest
with the budget Division, actual expenditures are determined by continuous
negotiations between the Treasury and public entities, with decisions based
upon short-term cash flow concerns,  The Government of Bolivia intends to
rationalize and strengthen functions of the Ministry of Finance, with an
initial emphasis on building basic systems and capabilities in accounting,
cash management, budget programming and execution in the Ministry itself and
in  the most  important  public  entities.    The  proposed  Public  Financial
Management Operation would support these measures.
2.17        The Office of the Controller General of the Republic (CGR) is
responsible for external control and auditing functions, and for establishing
norms  for  internal  control  systems  in public  entities*   The  controller
General, appointed by the President, has completed about half of his 10-year
term. During the last 18 months, CGR staff was reduced by 50Z from 1,186 to
592. Under the present Controller, the CGR's ex-ante control functions, which
represented major operational bottlenecks, have been removed. The Controller
has taken the lead in preparing the government's program to improve financial
information, administration and control in public sector entities.



- 8 -
2.18        The Ministry of Planning has four divisions:   Planning, Public
Administration, Legal and Administrative Affairs, and Economic Policy.   The
primary functions of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, as defined in
its organizational law of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination of 1974,
are:   co.rdination and control of national planning and project evaluation
systems; formulation of economic development plans; with the Ministry of
Finance, preparation of public investment and annual operating plans and the
annual capital budget; installation of project monitoring systems; and
establishment and application of basic organization and methods for the public
sectore  The Ministry of Planning and Coordination is the main link between
the Presidency and the Ministries.
2.19      Programming and monitoring mechanisms are weak.  While in theory all
projects of the central and decentralized sectors are subject to review by the
National System of Projects (SNP), most projects, particularly those with
powerful political proponents, move directly to the Council for Economic
Affairs and Planning (CONEPLAN) without intermediate technical screening.
Regional projects are not reflected in the SNP.   Planning and budgetting
systems are not well integrated; projects are approved and included in the
budget as financing becomes available, rather than on the basis of sound
evaluation and established priorities.   Improvement  in these systems will
become particularly important with anticipated increases in domestic and
foreign resources, The FY87 Public Sector Expenditure Review (PSER) is incor-
porating assessments of:   sector strategies and programs; means to develop
suitable investment projects, and institutional mechanisms for project identi-
fication, screening and monitoring. The proposed Public Financial Management
Operation will help improve operational programming, budgeting and execution
systems.  Support for improvements in sectoral strategies   project evaluation
and monitoring are envisaged under a subsequent public fiaancial management
operation.
2.20      Tax Administration.  The immediate objective of the 1986 tax reform
is to prevent the past pattern of deficit financing through monetary emission
with resultant hyperinflation.  The drop in fiscal revenues, which contributed
to this spiral, resulted from: the collapse of export prices for main commo-
dities; inefficiency and irregular practices in Government collections of
taxes and customs; and tax evation in the private sector.   In addition to
using taxes for stabilization ends, increased tax revenues are essential if
investment is to be resumed and reasonable salaries paid to a smaller civil
service. The 1986 tax reform simplifies the number and types of taxes, focus-
sing on value added and wealth.  In addition to the one time regularization
tax in 1986, th^. six permanent taxes are: value added tax, complementary tax
to value added, transaction tax, corporate profit tax, luxury consumption tax,
and property tax. Under the new tax system, the commercial banking network
would be used for collections, to improve ease and efficiency of payments and
to  distance  Internal  Revenue  personnel  from  collection  activities.'/
1/ The use of commercial banks for tax collections has been tested in
Bolivia, is used successfully in other Latin American countries, and is
encouraged by the Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF.



- 9 -
Government tax administration would focus on auditting, statistics and
non-compliance functions; the 1986 legislation provides for simplification and
strengthening in these areas. With these arrangements, substantial reductions
in Government tax administration personnel are possible and planned.   Annex
4.1 provides an assessment of the 1986 tax reform.
2.21      Collections under the 1986 regularization tax exceeded expectations,
and provided a successful testing ground for using commercial banks as collec-
tion agents.  In 1986, moves on regulations, administration and systems for
the six permanent taxes were stalled due to indecision on whether a new
Ministry of Taxation would be created to provide the necessary impetus to
implementing the reform. In early January 1987, the new Minister of Taxation
was appointed.   The Subsecretariat of Tax Collections, Ministry of Finance,
the Internal Revenue Department and Customs Administration now fall under this
Minister.   The Minister plans an extremely lean Ministry and significant
streamlining of tax administration personnel. The new Hinistry would have the
duration of the present Minister, with tax administration responsibilities
shifted back to the Ministry of Finance in two to three years, once the new
system is operating successfully.  While this arrangement is unusual, it is
justified in the context of Bolivia to attract the type of personnel needed to
implement the reform and to make the major organizational changes required in
the tax administration apparatus.   With the decision now taken, work on
regulations, organization, and systems has been accelerated with IDB/UNDP and
IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) support. The proposed Public Financial
Management Operation complements IDB/UNDP inputs in support of this program.
2,22      Banking System.  The Paz-Estenssoro Government encountered a banking
system in chaos. An audit of the Central Bank of Bolivia, sponsored by the
Controller General's Office in late 1985, exposed the absence of basic
accounting and operating systems.   Central banking functions were not being
performed adequately, and the Central Bank had assumed the roles of commercial
bank for public enterprises and second tier development bank, with heavy
involvement in evaluation of individual projects. The major development banks
suffered from serious arrears and defaults, with management weaknesses, poor
portfolio performance and heavy reliance on external financial sources. Norms
and controls on the 24 private commercial banks have been inadequate to ensure
sound financial and operating standards. Significant actions have been taken
and are planned by the Governm(ent and Central Bank of Bolivia to build a sound
financial intermediation system. A major restructuring of the Central Bank of
Bolivia is being implemented with a focus on strengthening bawic central
banking functions, removing CBB from commercial and development banking,
building reliable accounting systems, and strengthening economic research.
Redundant staff resigned in February 1987.   Central Bank staff has been
reduced from 1,200 to about 200. Most cuts were in the 1,000 non-professional
staff which had bloated the Central Bank.   Qualified new staff are being
recruited, building to the desired staff strength of about 450. Rules of the
game for private commercial banks have been formulated, external audits will
be completeA by mid-1987, and the banking inspection function is being built.
Action programs for restructuring Banco del Estado and Banco Agricola have
been developed. The proposed Public Financial Management Operation provides
support for strengthening core functions in the Central Bank and major
restructuring development banks (paras 3.14 to 3.17).



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Orign and Objectives
3.01        Objectives.   The proposed Public Financial Management Operation
(P?mO) is designed to build the bsqic systems and institutional capabilities
needed for efficient resource mobilization, use, and implementation of policy
reforms (para 3.05).   The three main objectives of the PFMO are to:   (a)
install financial information, administration and controls, and build related
staff know-how in the most important central and decentralized entities; (b)
improve the financial intermediation system by restructuring the Central Bank
of Bolivia and the development banks; and (c) overhaul tax administration to
enable implementation of the 1986 tax reform. The project scope reflects the
urgency of the measures, the strength of the leadership for each component,
and the demonstrated ability of the Government to take decisive action.
Project preparation assistance has been intensive. The scope, design and time
frame of this first operation have been tailored to reflect Government imple-
mentation capacity, and to focus on core actions needed over the next two
yearso
3.02      Project Origin.  At the request of the present Controller General of
the Republic (CGR), a mission was fielded in 1984 to help diagnose weaknesses
in public accounting and auditing, and to identify technical assistance needs.
In late 1985, a small UNDP-financed, IBRD-executed project with the CGR was
initiated to help design legal changes in the CBR's role and guidelines for
training accountants and auditors. Audit work by the CGR made it clear that
priority had to be placed on building financial information, administration
and controls in key central and decentralized publie entities, to provide a
foundation for effective policy, financial and operating decisions. CGR audit
work on the Central Bank of Bolivia (CBB) and the public sector development
banks dramatized the disarray of Bolivia's financial system. In early 1986, a
new CBB President arrived with a commitment and mandate to restructure the
banking system.
3.03        A US$500,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance was used
from June to November 1986 to help define the content of the new Financial
Administration and Control System (SAFCO), and to diagnose and make recommen-
dations for restructuring the Central Bank and the largest two development
banks.   An additional PPF  advance of US$1 million,  covering  the period
November 1986 to August 1987, also incorporates tax administration, and is
designed to ensure that momentum is maintained in the period prior to credit
effectiveness.
S. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.04        The Government of Bolivia and IDA country strategy attach high
priority to the proposed Public Financial Management Operation.   The PFMO
would help establish the institutional infrastructure for implementing the New
Economic  Policy,  by  tackling  three  critical  constraints  to  improving
performance  of  the  public  sector:    (a)  the  lack  of  basic  financial



- 11 -
administration and control systems and capabilities needed for efficient
management of scarce financial resources; (b) poor internal tax generation
prior to the May 198, tax reforms, and urgent need to install organization atd
systems needed for the new tax regime; and (c) extreme weaknesses in the
banking  system.      The  key  Government  players  responsible  for  these
institutional retorme have prepared systematic, detailed institutional reform
programs, with assistance under the PPF.   The relative political stability
combined with the demonstrated commitment and competence of the economic team
provide an unusual opportunity to make institutional reforms.
3.05      Bank sector work and lending support to Bolivia have expanded sharp-
ly in response to major policy improvements made by the Paz Estensorro's
Government.    Objectives  of  Bank  Group  assistance  include  support  in:
strengthening key institutions to enable execution of reforms, management of
the economy, and efficiency of a more limited public sector; and reactivating
the public and private sectors, through financial sector reforms, internal and
external resource trobilization, and rehabilitation of productive capacity.
After a six year hiatus in lending, an SDR 48.4 million (US$61.0 million)
reconstruction import credit and an SDR 12.8 million (US$16.0 million) gas
recycling operation were approved in 1986 to support Government stabilization,
liberalization and restructuring moves. A second policy-based operation, an
emergency social fund credit, and a power rehabilitation project are program-
med for FY87.   A financial sector adjustment  operation and a municipal
strengthening project are at advanced stages of processing.   The proposed
Public Financial Management Operation has been designed to assist GOB in
implementing institutional reforms needed to sustain the economic program, and
to translate policy decisions into action and results. The PPF and full PFMO
also support major institutional reforms in the financial system which, with
policy measures taken and planned, form the bases for the proposed financial
sector  loan.    Key  institutional  changes  in  the  financial  system  being
supported under the PFMO include the Central Bank reorganization, strengthen-
ing of bank inspection, and restructuring of the two largest development
banks.  The PFMO will fund the technical assistance requirements needed for
and in parallel to the fast-disbursing financial sector adjustment operation.
3.06        Preparation and implementation of the proposed Public Financial
Management Operation provide a vehicle for ensuring a coherent approach by the
major aid agencies in supporting improvements in the key institutions respon-
sible for public resource mobilization and use.   Project preparation has
involved intensive coordination with USAID, IDB, UNDP and IMF.  USAID funded a
portion of the preparation of the Financial Administration and Control (SAFCO)
component, and USAID has committed to funding most incremental local expendi-
tures to install SAFCO. In mid-1986, IDB/UNDP reshaped a public sector opera-
tion to assist in implementing the tax reform.   IDA will continue to work
closely with IDB in supporting improvements in tax administration. The IMF
accounting advisor to the Central Bank has shaped the Central Bank accounting
component and is the leader of the IDA-financed accounting team.   The IMF
Central Banking Department has provided important technical inputs in the
preparation of the Banking System component; IMF will continue to review
consultant selection and reports of Central Bank activities of the full PFMO.



- 12 -
C. Project Coponents
(i) Financial Administration and Control Systew-SAFOO
3.07      The proposed PFMO would initiate the overhaul in norms, systems, and
staff dealing with financial administration and control in key ministries and
public entities. The main objective is to ensure the timely flow of reliable
information needed for policy decisions, financial management and corrective
action in Bolivia's public sector.  Priorities for this first operation will
be to install, in the most important ministries and public entities:   (a)
reliable accounting, internal control and financial reporting systems; (b)
adequate cash management systems; (c) effective operational programming,
budgetting and execution systems; (d) an adequate financial audit capabiliy;
and Ce) a core of qualified staff to manage and operate these systems.
3.o08     A detailed implementation program for this Financial Administratior
and Control System (SAFCO) was prepared with agreement in substance reached
during negotiations  (Annex 2.1).   The three-pronged approach of the SAFCO
program involves:  establishing norms; training and rewarding key staff; and
installing systems in the key ministries and entities, Annex 2.2 provides the
results expected outputs during the initial 21-month phase covered under the
PFMO. At the end of Year I, major outputs of the new Financial Administration
and Control System (SAFCO) would include:
- SAFCO laws, principles and standards developed and approved
- At least 150 trained and qualified financial personnel
- Accountant General's Office in the Ministry of Finance organized
and staffed to produce Central Government accounts for CY88
- First formal Annual Audit Plan prepared
- National Treasury system installed and staffed to provide
effective cash management for the Central Government, and to
monitore cash flows in largest public entities
- Detailed design of Budget Manual, with Budget Office of Ministry
of Finance staffed to begin effective monitoring of CY88 budget,
and preparation of the CY89 Budget of the Central Government
-  Nine  major  public  entities   producing  reliable  financial
information, operational budgets and cash management information.
3.09         In Year I, the SAFCO program would focus on introducing basic
systems of accounting, internal controls and cash management in nine public
entities.   Year II would be devoted to deepening and refining systems and
capabilities in these entities, expanding coverage to a total of 12, and
building solid budgetting, cash management and related operating systems. The
original action program outlined an expansion of coverage to 30 public
entities in Year II, with financial statements, accounting and control



- 13 -
This scope has been reviewed and reduced to 12 entities. which represent about
60% of public financial flows.   Other outputs expected at the end of 21
months, as detailed in Annex 2.2 include:   (a) reliable Central Government
accounts prepared by the General Accounting Office of the Ministry of Finance;
(b) a CY89 Central Government Budget prepared, utilizing data supplied by
entities and ministries employing the new budget systems; and (c) functioning
commitment,   expenditure  and  payment  cor-rols,  and  reliable   revenue,
expenditure, and cash flow statements prepared by the Ministry of Finance. In
Year II, the CGR would prepare or sponsor audit reports on at least the
entities covered under SAFCO.
3.10       Organization and Staffing for SAFCO.  A SAFCO Council (CONSAFCO),
composed of the Ministers of Planning, Finance and Taxation, and the
Controller General and other members acceptable to IDA, is being established
to oversee  the  implementation of the SAFCO program.   A SAFCO Executive
Secretariat-with membership and functions acceptable to IDA-will report to
the Council, and be responsible for management of the component.   A strong
CONSAFCO President and Executive Secretary have been appointed.   In January
1986, the Controlller General presented the concept, organization, design,
implementation plan, and resource requirements of the SAFCO program to the
President and key economic Ministers. The program was endorsed strongly, and
the creation of the SAFCO Council and Executive Secretariat was approved.
Targetted central entities will be the Ministries of Flnance and Planning, and
the CGR; other entities targetted will be determined by CONSAFCO, will need to
be approved by IDA. The final SAFCO implementation program will contain the
final list of the nine entities to be covered in Year I and a tentative list
for Year II.  Criteria for selection will be the financial importance of the
entity.   The tentative list discussed during negotiations included:   YPFB,
COMIBOL, the Municipalities of La Paz and Santa Cruz, the Ministries of
Health, Agriculture and Transport; IBSS (Social Security), ENDE (electricity),
and the main regional development councils, CORDECRUZ, CORDETAR, and CORDECH.
ENTEL and ENFE (telephones and railway) are being covered under an IDB
project,  and  entity-level  assistance  in  accounting,  budgetting  and  cash
management is expected for YPFB, COMIBOL and ENDE under other IDA projects. A
major function of the SAFCO program will be to ensure consistency and
compatibility in all financial administration and control system development,
regardless of sources of funds.   The SAFCO teams will focus initially on
getting basic, reliable financial information in and from the major public
entities; when more substantial support becomes available, the SAFCO Council
and Executive Secretariat will ensure that systems developed conform with
SAFCO norms and  are compatible.   About  20 long-term consultants  and  30
analysts will be required to help develop norms, train staff, and design and
install  basic  financial  administration  and  control  systems.   A detailed
assessment  of  consultancy  needs  has  been  made  for  each  activity  and
participating entity. Qualifications, terms of reference and expected output
of each consultant have been developed and are summarized in Annexes 2.3 and
2.4.   About eight of the consultants would be assigned to the Executive
Secretariat to help develop SAFCO norms and systems which cut across entities,
and to provide the needed coordination of training and entity level technical
assistance, and provide substantive leadership on Ministry of Finance
systems.    The remaining 12 consultants willk be assigned to the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Planning, Contraloria, and other major entities.



-14-
3.11      At least 300 staff would be qualified under the SAFCO formal and on-
the-job training program over the initial 21-month period, assuming a 65%
success rate for the training. Once staff pass basic courses, they return to
their ministries or entities, are monitored for results and, subsequently, are
admitted to more specialized courses.   The intensive formal and on-the-job
training of Bolivian staff during the initial period is designed to enable
this personnel to replace all but the most specialized consultants by the end
of 30 months in the entities covered. Annex 2.2(c) summarizes the content and
coverage of SAFCO training programs.
(il) Taz Aduiniatratiou
3.12      The proposed PFMO would support vOB in implementing the May 1986 tax
reform. The simplified new regime is to be complemented by major improvements
in the tax administration system, notably the use of the banking system rather
than the Internal Revenue Department as agent for tax collection; this
arrangement, which has been tested in Bolivia, successful in several Latin
American countries, and managed by the IMF, is judged appropriate for Bolivia
due tol (a) the extreme weaknesses and history of irregular practices in the
Internal Revenue Department, and (b) the relatively strong branch networks of
the banks. The tRD would focus on audit and statistical functions, which is
expected to reduce corruption, increase efficiency and enable substantial
reduction in staff. Beginning in September 1986, IDB has financed a team of
19 consultants to assist in a first phase of design and installation of
systems to implement the new tax reform.
3.13         Under the leadership of the new Minister of Tax and Customs,
decisive actions on tax administration have been taken and planned. A summary
of the status is provided in Annex 3.1. The Government has requested that the
IDA PPF advance and full PFMO finance:   the core local team; diagnosis and
implementation support for the overall organization and for property taxes;
and about 40X of the external financing requirements of Phase II, including
both consultants and equipment.   During appraisal, IDA worked closely with
IDB,  UNDP  and  the  Government  to ensure  a coherent approach.   Phase I
(September 1986 to end May 1987) is proceeding on schedule. An action program
and summary TORs for Phase 1I were prepared and agreed in substance during
appraisal (Annex 3.2).   Consultant requirements, costs and sources of funds
also were developed jointly (Annex 3.3),   Annex 3.4 outlines PPF-financed
inputs for the initial phase.
(iit)   &ntien  S     Rte Reforms
3.14       Reorganization of Central Bank.  In July 1986, the new President of
the Central Bank prepared a draft scheme for reorganizing the Central Bank of
Bolivia (CBB). From July 1986, technical assistance funded under the PPF has
been provided in assessing reform options and structural implications, and in
developing and beginning implementation of programs in four key areas:
accounting and internal controls, banking inspection, debt monitoring systems,
and economic research. The plans were endorsed by the President and Cabinet
in January 1986, and discussed in a public forum in late January.   The
President signed a Decree in early February, enabling the reorganization,



- 15 -
including compensation for staff resigning.   Redundant staff have retired,
with staffing reduced from 1,200 to about 200.  Qualified staff are being
recruited with about 450 professional and support staff needed for smooth
operation of the 'new Central Bank". The major changes include:
a) separation of Central Bank activities into three
distinct functions: Banking Supervision, Central
Bank as monetary authority, and Central Bank as
operating entity--with major rationalization of
organization, staffing and functions within these
key activities;
b) gradual removal of Central Bank as entity for
direct    lending    to   non-financial   public
enterprises;
c) strengthening of Banking Inspection to supervise,
operations  of  the  banks;  once  established,
Banking Inspection may be spun off into an
independent Superintendencia de Bancos;
d)  organization  and  systems  for  strengthening
accounting and internal controls, which both
comply  with   generally   accepted   accounting
principles as well as meet the information
requirements of a monetary authority; and
e) strengthening of economic and debt-management
organization, systems and capabilities.
3.15         A detailed organizational chart, description of functions and
reporting relations, and staffing plan were prepared for each major unit,
prior  to  the  reorganization.    A  set  of  key  actions  to  implement  the
reorganization of the Central Bank was prepared and has proceeded on schedule
(Annex 4.1).  PFIMO inputs focus on implementing 'the reorganization in bank
supervision,  accounting,  and monetary  policy  (Annexes  4.2  to  4.4).    A
substantial amount of technical assistance designing programs in each of these
areas was provided in the first phase PPF.   Under the second stage PPF,
assistance is being provided in initial implementation of each program (Annex
4.6).   Technical assistance requirements under the PPF and full PFMO are
provided in Annex 4.5.                        0
3.16         The diagnoses and recommendations were developed by top Latin
American consultants, with successful experience designing and implementing
instit'tional reforms in central banks (Annex 4.6).  The action program for
Central Bank accounting was developed by an IMF-financed advisor, working on
CBB accounting systems since June 1986 (Annex 4.2).   This IMF advisor is
leading the accounting team under the PPF and full PFMO.  All reports have
been discussed with the IMF.  The IMP Central Banking Department will continue
providing two advisors to the CBB.   Close coordination with the IMF will
continue during project implementation, with IMF Banking Department providing
technical backup to IDA supervision activities.



- 16 -
3.17      Development Banks.  In addition to building Banking Inspection as a
means to monitor and ensure that private and public banks comply with sound
financial  and  operational  standards,  the  PFMO  would  assist  in  the
restructuring of Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) and Banco del Estado
(BANEST), the major public financial intermediaries in Bolivia.   Under the
first stage PPF, preliminary diagnoses of the organization, operations and
financial performance of the Banco Agricola de Bolivia and the Banco del
Estado were performed.   These two development banks are the most important
public sector financial intermediaries in Bolivia; serious collection problems
and operational weaknesses in these institutions have resulted in severe
financial drains and an absence of sound public sector credit channels for
agricultural,  industrial  and  commercial  lending.    Various  restructuring
options-including closure-have been considered by Central Bank and Ministry
of of Financeo The CBC President wishes to deepen the analysis of different
options and implications under the second stage PPF, with an agreed action
program to be finalized by January 1, 1988. The PFHO would provide TA support
in  making  agreed  restructuring  moves.    The  PFMO-financed  inputs  are
complementary to support by USAID to finance external audits, support the
creation of a Deposit Insurance Fund, and improve project evaluation and
supervision capabilities  in private commercial  banks.   IDB has committed
assistance to the Development Credit Department (DCD) of the Central Bank.
PFMO would provide TA support in making agreed reorganization moves, to be
refined and finalized in mid-1987.  A draft action and TA program has been
prepared (Annex 4.6). The PFMO-financed inputs are complementary to support
by USAID to finance external audits, support the creation a Deposit guarantee
Fund, and improve project evaluation and supervision capabilities in private
commercial banks. The Central Bank of Colombia provided technical assistance
in restructuring the Development Credit Department (DCD) of the Central Bank.
With the reorganization, the development banking functions of the DCD have
been reduced and staffing cut to less than half of the previous levels; these
measures are prerequisites to a systematic transfer of second-tier development
banking functions to Banco del Estado or another financial intermediary.
D. Project Cost and Financing
3.18        The estimated cost of the operation is SDR18.6 million (US$23.8
million), the non-incremental Government contribution for counterpart staff
and facilities is excluded, project costs total SDR12.9 (US$16.5 million
equivalent). Foreign exchange content is about US$10.8 million. The proposed
IDA credit would finance US$11.5 million (including the US$1.5 million PPF),
or about 70  of incremental and 50X of total project costs.   IDA financing
would be utilized for:  foreign and local consultants; foreign equipment and
materials; and fixed contract personnel of the Executive Secretariat and the
new Ministry of Taxation.   IDA financing for core fixed-contract personnel,
totalling about US$960,000, represents the critically important, non-recurrent
local fixed contract personnel inputs to initiate the SAFCO and tax
administration components.   The costs of training and technical assistance
components were estimated in accordance with prevailing costs of materials and
services. Estimated man-month costs are US$8,000 to US$10,000 for foreign
consultants, US$4,000 for local and regional analysts, and US$1,000 to
US$2,000 for local professionals.



- 17 -
3.19         The summary of PFM0 costs and IDA financing is provided in the
following table. Reductions in project scope were made at appraisal, based on
a review of content and phasing,  to help ensure manageability.   USAID has
committed to financing about US$3.0 million for local costs for the first 21
months of the SAFCO program; USAID will fund rehabilitation of facilities, and
training stipends, most local professionals, and incremental salaries for
staff trained and qualified under the SAFC0 program.  Total costs incorporate
US$1.6 millicon in IDB and UNDP inputs for Phase II of tax administration
program; IDF/UNDP provided about US$1.0 million in technical assistance funds
for  Phase  I.    IDB,  UND?  and  IDA-financed  inputs  are  being  coordinated
closely.   Total  project  costs do not incorporate  IDB and USAID technical
assistance to the financial intermediaries; this technical assistance is
complementary  but not  directly  linked  to  IDA-financed  inputs.    USAID has
committed about US$2.Omillion to finance external audits of the 24 private
commercial banks, help design and install a deposit guarantee fund, and train
commercial bank staff in project evaluation.   IDB has committed about US$1.0
million in technical assistance to the Development Credit Department of the
Central  Bank  and  to  build  project  lending  capabilities  in  financial
intermediaries.
Project Costs Estimate and Flancinge
(US$000)
FEC     IDA
Foreign    Local      Total
I. woo
a) Consultants, Analysts          5,100        400      5,500      93      100
b) Core Fixed Contract                0      1,400       1,400      0       30
Personnel
c) Counterpart Staff                  0     4,350       4,350       0        0
d) Equipment, Materials             810        450      1,260      80       80
e) Facilities, Training               0      1,500       1,500      0        0
Subtotal                    5,910      8,100      14,010      42      48
U. Tax Administration
a) Consultants                    1,860        190      2,050      91       35
b) Core Fixed Contract                0        540        540       0      100
Personnel
c) Counterpart Staff                  0      1,800      1,800       0        0
d) Facilities and Equipment          30         30         60      50        0
e) Administration - IDB             200          0        200   .100         0
Subtotal                    2,060      2,560       4,650     42       28
- --  - mm
III. Reforms in Bankiag System
a) Consultants                    1,130        220      1,350      84      100
b) Counterpart Staff                  0     2,400       2,400       0        0
c) Equipment                        200          0        200    100       100
Subtotal                     1,330     2,620       3,650      40      40
_o u    =_ _RM-
IV. Project Preparatlon,              1,250        250       1,500     83      100
V. Administrative Services             450          0         450    100      100
TOTAL                                 11,000    13,530       24,360     51       55
"_~~~~~m                                                       - 



- 18 -
3.20       Proposed IDA financing incorporates a Project Preparation Facility
advance totalling US$1.5 million; about US$700,000 already has been disbursed
The PPF advance is being used to fund consultancy and fixed contract personnel
inputs:    US$610,000  for  SAFCO;  US$525,000  for  Tax  Administration;  and
US$365,000 for Bank.ng System improvements. The first stage PPF of US$500,000
covered the June to October 1986 period; disbursements of the second stage PPF
are expected to be completed. in August 1987.
8. Justification
3.21       Each of the three PFMO components is expected to have substantial
positive impact on the financial performance of the public sector. SAiCO is
designed to improve financial administration systems and capabilities which
are prerequisites of sound economic decision making and public sector manage-
ment.   Improvements in cash management,  budget programming and execution,
public accounting and controls, and project execution are central to more
efficient utilization of Bolivia's extremely scarce resources, and are
essential in regaining the confidence of international financial institutions.
Work to provide reliable and timely financial information on the major public
entities and enterprises will inform GOB's continuous restructuring measures.
Over the next two years, solid accounting, budgetting and cash managemenz
should be installed in about 12 major ministries and public entities; at least
300 officers would be qualified and working with basic financial management
tools; and norms, standards, and manuals would have been established to enable
successive extension of SAFCO to all public entities.  The implementation of
the tax reform is expected to generate substantial increases over the extreme-
ly low historical baise.
3.22        The restructuring of the Central Bank of Bolivia will result in
substantial expenditure savings due to reduction in redundant staff.   More
importantly, by installing decent accounting systems and focussing on essen-
tial Central Banking functions, Bolivia is expected to have a sound Central
Bank for the first time. The creation of the Banking Superintendency, comple-
mented by USAID funded external auditing of the private commercial banks and
by legal changes in rules of the game, should result in significant strength-
ening of the private banking system.  The restructuring of Banco del Estado
and the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia will cut the drain of public development
banking, and build a netwerk for rural savings mobilization and lending.
F. Project Risks
3.23          While the project is viable because of the competence,. and
commitment of the present Government, the success of the operation could be
undermined were a major political shift to occur in the next two years.  The
project is designed to improve the depth and professionalism of public
financial management and to reduce the vulnerability of the civil service to
political swings. However, the success of implanting SAFCO, restructuring the
banking system, and installing improvements in tax administration depends on
key players staying in place. These risks have been reduced by: focussing on



- 19 -
basic changes over a relatively short period; agreeing on detailed blueprints
for each component, as reflected in the agreed action programs, and creating
stable organizational mechanisms, such as CONSAFCO and the SAFCO Executive
Secretariat, to protect the technical integrity of the program from political
swaings. Also, action programs establish time bound benchmarks on expected
decisions, activities and outputs to enable monitoring and remedial measures
if required.    The  Financial  Administration  and  Control  System  requires
orchestration of inputs to establish norms, train staff, and install systems.
The program has been pruned to reflect implementation constraints and to focus
on basic building blocks during the initial two-year period covered under the
first Public Financial Management Operation.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Organizatiod and ?anagmut
4.01       The Public Financial Management Operation will be handled as three
separate subprojects, with complementary objectives but independent implement-
ing arrangements.  As outlined in para. 3.10, SAFCO would be governed by a
Council composed of the Ministers of Finance, Planning, Taxation, the
Controller  General,  and  other members  acceptable  to  IDA.    An  Executive
Secretariat is being established to coordinate operations.   Consultants and
analysts would be assigned to the Executive Secretariat, the Ministries of
Finance and Planning, the CGR and the selected central and decentralized
entities. The tax administration component would operate separately, directly
under the Minister of Taxation and in close cooperation with IDB. The Banking
System Component falls under the leadership of the President of the Central
Bank, who has appointed coordinators for overall restructuring and for each
subcomponent.
4.02        Selection of Administrative Agent.  As with other Public Sector
Management Operations in LAC, UNDP has financed seed capital for project
preparation, under a UNDP-financed, Bank-executed project (para 3.07).   This
project in turn became the vehicle for the Project Preparation Facility
advance, This arrangement during project preparation has several advantages.
Being a UNDP Project, delays caused by Government procedures for approving
foreign and local consultants are avoided.  Also, as UNDP has a large local
office, logistical arrangements are facilitated. UNDP bridge funding can be
provided to cover any lags between PPF advances and credit effectiveness.
These advantages can be retained after effectiveness by utilizing UNDP's
Office of Project Execution (OPE) to perform administrative functions under
the PFMO.   UNDP-OPE serves as a procurement agent, contracting and paying
consultants  on behalf  of Government.    IDA  retains  all normal  technical
supervision functions. The draft contract, fees and arrangements for such an
administrative services contract were discussed during negotiations, with
agreement in substance reached. Due to the detailed definition of all project
inputs, it was possible to estimate administrative services cost more
precisely than is normally possible. UNDP-OPE has indicated that fees will be
not more than US$400,000, equivalent to about 42 of the amounts to be
administered by UNDP-OPE.  Signing of a contract, satisfactory to IDA, would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.03      Reporting, Supervision, Monitoring.  Quarterly progress reports will
be required for each component.  Annual action programs, acceptable to IDA,
will be prepared by the implementing agencies.  The action programs provided
in Annexes to this SAR provide details on Year I activities.   Substantial
supervision is necessary for this type of operation.   In addition to Bank
staff supervision, specialists would be employed to monitor the SAFCO
component every six months, and the IMF Central Banking Department would
provide technical support in supervision of Central Bank activities.



- 21 -
S. Procuremut and Cosultant Services
4.04       All goods, services and consultants would be procured and selected
utilizitg procedures provided in Bank guidelines.   The Bank will review and
approve the terms of reference, selection procedures, qualifications and fees
for all foreign and local consulting positions.   It is expected that consul-
tants for the Banking System and Tax Administration components would be indivi-
duals.   In the case of the major SAFCO program, a principal contract for
project management covering consultants assigned to the Executive Secretariat
would be utilized; the invitation to bid and related documentation have been
prepared.  This contract would include a maximum of eight consultants.   The
firm winning the management contract will be precluded from winning other SAFCO
contracts.   The objectives of dividing SAFCO into several contracts are to:
encourage firms to offer highly qualified and experienced staff, which would be
difficult for any firm to supply for the entire program; reduce the project's
vulnerabililty to performance of a single firm; and encourage a set of account-
ing and consulting firms to develop know-how and a presence in Bolivia,
reduv.ing Bolivia's present dependence on one or two firms.   To avoid losing
time in initiating the SAFCO program, the invitation for proposal process would
begin in April; the award of at least the principal management contract would
be made initially for the PPF II period, with the understanding that contracts
would continue under the full PFHO.   Procurement of all goods, principally
computers and their corresponding software and office technology equipment
would be carried out through international shopping, including quotations from
at least three suppliers in conformity with the Bank guidelines for procurement
of goods.   As the average goods contract is expected to be under US$100,000,
this arrangement is judged more appropriate than international competitive
bidding; all contracts of US$50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by
IDA. A special account will not be required, as advances provided under the
UNDP-OPE Administrative Services Contract serve the same purpose.
C, Effectiveness. Disbursements, Accounts, and Audits
4.05       Effectiveness and Disbursements.  The disbursement schedule reflects
a three-year disbursement period, shorter than actual disbursement patterns for
public sector management technical assistance loans (Annex 5.1). This schedule
is judged realistic due to the intensive preparation process, resulting in a
technical assistance operation which focusses on specific, agreed actions
rather than diagnostic studies.  Also, since the majority of the consultants
are to be fielded early in the project and remain for the duration, the logis-
tical difficulties of fielding large numbers of short term consultants are
avoided. Most individual consultants for the banking and tax administration
components  already have  been  identified.    The  IDA  credit  would  disburse
against: 100% of the costs of consultants and analysts (excluding specified
IDB inputs on the tax administration component); 100% for imported equipment
and materials; 100% of fixed term personnel costs of the SAFCO Executive
Secretariat and the core fixed term personnel of the Ministry of Taxation; 100%
of the UNDP-OPE administrative services contract; and repayment of the PPP
advance. In addition to a US$1.5 million in PPF advances (US$500,000 before



- 22 -
and US$1.0 million after appraisal), up to US$500,000 of retroactive financing
could be required and is reflected in the legal documents.   The PPF II covers
IDA-financed technical assistance elements from November 1986 to August 1987; as
credit effectiveness is expected in September/October 1987, a small amount of
Government or UNDP bridge financing may be required, with eligible expendi-tures
reimbursed from credit proceeds.
4.06      Given the importance of the SAFCO component, establishment of CONSAFCO
and the SAFCO Executive Secretariat would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
The legal establishment of the Council for SAFCO (CONSAFCO) and appointment of
the Executive Secretary is expected in May 1987. The passage of the SAFCO Law is
anticipated in September, at th2 time of Congressional approval of the PFMO. As
a condition of disbursement on each respective component, an acceptable Component
Implementation Program and Year I Action Plan would need to be presented by the
head of each implementing agency.   Prior to disbursing on the SAFCO component,
all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of parallel USAID funding
would need to have been met, and the SAFCO Program would need to have been
established in a manner satisfactory to the Association.   The Government of
Bolivia is expected to secure parallel IDB fundlng for the tax administration
component in July 1987, and is required to obtain the funding not later than one
year after the date of IDA credit effectiveness. Agreed action programs will be
required for Years II and III; dates for preparation. and discussion were
established during negotiations.  IDA would need to concur with any substantial
revisions in the annual action programs.
4.07        Accounts and Audits.   The Borrower and implementing agencies would
establish and maintain consolidated project accounts for all expenditures
financed under this credit in a clearly identifiable manner. These accounts and
supporting records pertaining to the goods and services financed under the
credit would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
V. RKCOMVENDATIONS
5.01      Agreement on the following areas were confirmed during negotiations:
i)     Component implementation program and Year I action
plan for each component agreed in substance (paras
3.08, 3.09, 3.13, 3.15, 3.17, Annexes 2.1 to 2.3,
3.2, 4.1 to 4.4);
ii)    Terms  of  reference  for main  consulting  positions
(paras 3.10, 3.13, 3.15, Annexes 2.4, 3.4);
iii)   Procedures for selection of consultants consistent
with Bank Guidelines, notably for the SAFCO component
in which firms will be utilized (para 4.04);
iv)    Costs,  financing  plan and  arrangements  for  USAID
local currency funding, for SAFCO (paras 3.18 and
3.19);



- 23 -
v)     Cost distribution and coordination arrangements with
IDB,  UNDP and GOB on implementing the tax reform
(para 3.13, Annex 3.3);
vi)    Content of UNDP-OPE administrative services contract
(para 4.02); and
vii)   Annual action plan, reporting, accounting, auditing
requirements, procurement and disbursement procedures
(paras 4.03-4.07).
5.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
i)     legal and operational establishment of CONSAPCO and
the SAFCO Executive Secretariat, with composition and
functions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.06, Annex 2.1);
ii)    contrettual  agreement,  satisfactory  to  IDA,  for
admin.strative services under the project, probably
with UNDP-OPE (paras 4.2 and 4.06);
Wi)   contractual   arrangements,   satisfactory   to  IDA,
between the Borrower and the Central Bank of Bolivia,
to carry out the banking system component (para
4.06); and
iv)    compliance  with  the  legal approvals necessary  in
Bolivia (para 4.06).
5.03          The  following  conditions  of  disbursement will  be attached to
individual components:
i)     For  SAFCO,  satisfactory  establishment  of  SAFCO
Program,  compliance  with  requirements  for  USAID
funding, and commitment letter from CONSAPCO (para
4.06); and
ii)    For  each  component,  a  Component  Implementation
Ptogress and Year I action plan, acceptable to the
Association (para 4.06).



( T UZAT    OlMcF 1' MAJ  UIMOW  e1aT4rUS
(1sdmar of Fatltlem)
(ZLawns
C       _                                                             (S)A .I
OSIS (16)
am3 HINLUE                                      LUE  rnlk
T                   (b)                                              (W0)
R lnf_1, EXt. Alfaitrst               AlowPeern4                  !"it    woct Ct    Aft.                  PgrcW     "t  MW          tbl  &jM  ;j'w 
aIutfim                                                             T1re                                            AffdXm
L
E       ubhUc                         (8)    (O)      (a)       (12)      (4)      (3)            (6)      (19)       (3)     (4)   (4)     (1)  (12)
C       ivttution                        IsI        hlcl.llE GMle.X                                                     I   I
E       (IW6)                                 PW       1m  del                                                       SOcL%.Sc
N S                                           INAI   EhtaI
-f E                                          Lw       CW2t
K C
A T
I a Mlx   1EterplsmEL                                                                           PL                           am             am                    -P.
Z A       (7D)                                                                     IAB          PATf                          SQl 
E L                                                                       BIiPAN                                              SulIIAm
D                                                                                  AAS          FAM                          1C
Rnm
9)
RI
E  N  Potecfm        (9)
I  s  Murdcidus (9) 
O  T 
N  k
A  A
L  T.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.
OAI =ou <r os are 1itd
ft  'eim   aWItrt    axb-s  a wiqrld of Ywxlelt vgwmkthare aDt lntudll.



(TRTCL]mi  Ot? KF CERY L MN.
A. MISfl(T   FROM (2034) 1/
Generalt                   Firmcal Rcy                Treasury (SabAccrutting .get hc2r/
(  de              (5            de           del Tsoro   ral de la    I_¢    trol                    (       Ze
n n  lra)(329)   Politica Finwriera (47)    Nacm) (397)                               de                 '(113)
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bldd .                                      ntroP,de
8 &Sbdivisixn              6 Subdivisi            I Central        and        Gesti; ). (129)
wea Reioa Office
- 2                                                                                 -tms (piaic    - 5 bt (r        trt
relati-m; public lirt        policy, tax poLicy, made,                            Divided aLg ieI
foruati).                                                                         ofernal finae, netay  of ptad
- 2 tecbmtcal     -miats      policy).                                              emcidon by sector        "Adistratse
(adnI                                   secretariat                               (pWductve sectos,         - la Paz
(statistics).                   p-sicalE..u.r    - El Alto
- 4 depa    s                                                                           de     , social       - Obr(jes
lep  affairs,                                                                       iell 
cmrl, SwrlaW.)                                                                               inad
fineanc, pAUbc and
).m etrirs)
Source: G?oermait of BDlvia
I/ Huber of employees (1986 figres) pwovided In p.
2/ In Jauay 1987, Tat C1ctia               r t feerred frnm MUnistry of FinP'ce to nw Ministry of Tfairm                             I
Oft



SJn[RE CF I! CNSAL   ENrIm
B.  MY     OF P}D A)M         RDN    (267)
Plamgt  5                                             S1t l 8      oof T1al      I ERnc Raicy
de                                                       Affairs   9 use          At-
r)             (             de Coordi-       (Asmto Juridicos y                   a de
r~iai 1ntemlnisterlal)        Mffdistrativos)          Politica _  Pmni)
6I                                                  21
- Mobal Plaming             Dlrectorate£of Riblic       - Iegal Affairs
- Pomductive Sectors        Fwictiocs and Administrative -   hnrat
- Pvscal  fIIs:rwubtre      RatlonalizationI
- Socil      t
- I8giAd nalPannn
- Muinistrative ePlal
C. (FFI(E CF IIE ctmuW   GEMAL (492)
OQXrwUar Cneral
Wputy Qooamral
3 Asst. C ntroller cnwala - h,it
- -   -PM,  S
_____________________I  .                          i 
___________________________8 DEIepatBua ~btro2rs  fw



SALARY SLCII  - AOF OMLNIA
MMEX SALARY FM SEX)   RNfn/
(IKL MO0)W
RamlY                       Nimber       SAlARY R*ANE (Before DC 21316)    lUGIL kfllLY WMiYE BILL  AVEYUAE SALARIY IMSEA
of EDyike"Bas    Mtinlpm=       maxiwma           (After DS 21316)            (Z) D.S 21316
Presida9smy               213            30,000          85,000              13,815,915                 30.0
MXiikstry of Finanxe      984             30,000        380,000             120,689,622                 15.4
I41nistqy of Plamialg     267            43,500         275,000              32,826,696                 15.3
Controler Geunral         604            76,000         480,000             118,395,124                  7.5
RJNLIC ]a1TUiG
Cbnral fBaik            1,411            111,453      1,524,700             576,000,000                 0.0
del Estado           815            60,0UD         960,000             255,249,917                 7.5
INUALEM                    45            40,000         129,500               4,523,988                 23.0
ISAP                       53            45,000         330,000               6,106,193                 18.0
AlELIC W1  PRI
CltHIMTL               24,077             60,000        720,000           2,434,127,,686                20.7
EBnom Agricda             350             60,OD        650,000              87,741,500                  7.5
EAF                     1,642            60,000         656,503             247,861,141                  7.5
YPFB                    6,959            60,000         960,000           3,507,866,213                  7.5
aEn                       441             60,000        960,000             171,691,375                  0.0
ENFE                    6,480             60,000        960,000            1,065,474,425                 7.5
COYXm.                    105            60,000         486,000              15,389,919                  8.7
ENTE                    1,500            126,000        610,000             386,394,646                  7.5
MX      ENTIVS
LAB                     1,455            137,950       1,258,930            376,276,875                 7.5
(qjDIAB0L                  30             68,310        405,900              13,204,000                 7.5
Ra~IL  AMUAlt
CHXKEPAZ                  402             60,0w         720,0UO              122,609,125                7.5
Agvrce: Mlinstry of Finance, Budget Division
*te: D6 z1316 Mecreto Supreim 21316 dated June 1986
1/ In Bolivian Pesos (prior to 1987 shift to Boliviakem)



- 28 -                           Annex 1.4
BOLIVIA
NUMBER OF PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYEES
1971       1975        1981       1985        1986
-      ~~(Sept.
Total                          115,061    153,022      194,266    237,130    197,000
Central Government              53,287     76,814      101,364    132,080       **
Decentralized Sector            54,096     67,316       80,685     89,368       **
(Public Institutions)       (13,543)   (21,!22)    (23,999)   (27,854)
(Public Enterprises)        (39,630)   (44,724)    (53,460)   (58,347)
(Mixed Enterprises)            (923)    (1,070)      (3,226)    (3,167)
Regional Administration            432       1,098       3,079       4,377      **
Departmental Administration        572         531         591         610      **
Local Administration             6,674       7,263       8,547      10,695      **
* Source:  1971-1985:      Ministerlo de Trabajo y Desarrollo Laboral, Oficina
Sectoral de Estadistica.
1986 figures:  Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion,
Direccion de Funcion Publica.
NOTE: This does not include university personnel (9 government universities)
1981           6,005 employees
1985           9,238 employees
** Not available.



-    -                  ~~~~~Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 5
SAFCO
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE FOR 21 MONTHS
ACTIVITY                                     MONTH
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organize the CONSAFCO and appoint the Executive
Secretary                                                  May 1987
Tender the principal contract                              May 1987
Select firm for principal contract                         July 1987
Startup of principal contract                              August 1987
Begin organization of the Executive Secretariat            may 1987
Complete organization of the Executive Secretariat         August 1987
Prepare tender documents for other contracts               June to August 1987
Tender other contracts, select individual
consultants and evaluate analysts                          August to October 1987
Have appropriate and competent branches of the
Executive review the SAFCO law and present it to
Congress                                                   August to September 1987
Hold seminars for consultants to the principal
entities and entities' financial managers to review
norms, interim guidelines, and SAPCO program               October 1987
Review and approve implementation programs in
principal entitiep and organize follow up of same          April 1988
Prepare SAFCO report on first nine months of
implementation                                             May 1988
Compatibilize norms, standards, principles, policies
and procedures, establish a system of quality control
and carry out the monitoring of implementation and
administration of training                                 April 1988
Prepare SAFCO report on Months X to XXI.                   May 1988
NORMS AND STANDARDS
Prepare official coding of revenues and expenditures       July 1987
Draft the SAPCO Law                                        June to August 1987



- 30 -                           Annex a2.
Page 2 of 5
SAFCO
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE FOR 21 MONTHS
ACTIVITY                                    MONTH
Develop principles and standards of accounting and
internal control                                           August to September 1987
Prepare standards, policies and procedures for the
administration of funds, public credit, budget
execution, and develop the interim guidelines on
financial administration in order to begin systems
implementation                                             August to October J987
Commence preparation of regulations on procurement and
the administration of public property                      November 1987
Commence preparation of the Guide on Operational
Programming and Budgetting                                 March 1988
Commence preparation of government auditing standards
and for the qualification, selection and contracting
of independent audit firms                                 April 1988
Commence preparation of interim regulations on
personnel administration                                   April 1988
Commence preparation of directive on project
administration and control                                 May 1988
Commence preparation of standards and procedures
on automatic data processing                               June 1988
TRAINING
Pritit and distribute the Guide on Accounting              May to June 1987
Prepare the exaination on accounting and internal
control                                                    August 1987
Prepare and give Course I, Principles of SAFCO             September 1987
Select participants of Course III-A, Standards of
Financial Administration                                   November 1987
Prepare and give Course III-A, Standards of
Financial Administration                                   November 1987
Prepare and give Course III-B, Accounting and
Internal Control
Prepare and give Course IV-A, Automated Accounting
Systems



31 -                             Annex 2.1
Pae 3 of S
SAFCO
SUMMARY INPLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE FOR 21 MONTHS
ACTIVITY                                    MONTH
Prepare and give Course III-C, Operational Program-
mining and Budgeting                                       May 1988
Prepare and give Course II, Fundamentals of
Financial Administration                                   May 1988
Prepare Course III-D, Project Administration and
Control                                                    July 1988
Prepare and give Course IV-B, Automated
Administrative Systems                                     July 1988
Prepare and Course V-A, Government Auditing                August 1988
IMPLEMENTATION - SYSTEMS OF CENTRAL FINANCIAL
ADMINISTRATION AND CONTROL
Develop and distribute the directive to principal
entities to prepare closing balances for fiscal
year 1987                                                  September 1987
Establish the General Accounting Office in Ministry
of Finance and commence preparation of central
agencies accounting manual                                 October 1987
Prepare manuals on programming and administration
of funds, publicicredit and budget execution for
Central Government agencies and organize the Office
of Public Credit'within the Treasury                       January 1988
Commence mechanism of accounting systems of the
central administration (including Treasury and
budget execution)                                          January 1988
Organize teams !or the physical inventory taking and
valuation in principal entities                            January 1988
Strengthen the Treasury, Budget Office, General
Accounting Office and Office of the Controller
General with selected graduates from Course IlI-A          January 1988
Distribute the revised Guide and Standards of
Financial Administration to ministries and
principal entities so that they may commence
systems implementation                                     February 1988



- 32 -                           Annez 2.1
Page 4 of 2
SAFCO
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE FOR 21 MONTHS
ACTIVITY                                     MONTH
Strengthen the Treasury, Budget Office, General
Accounting Office and Office of the Controller
General with graduates from Course III-B                    March 1988
Complete the reorganization of the Audit Division of
the Office of the Controller General                       April 1988
Distribute manuals on financial administratlon to
central government agencies for systems implementa-
tion purposes                                              April 1988
Initiate installation of systems in selected
ministries and public entities                              June 1988
Open a registry and qualify independent audit firms
and prepare an audit manual                                June 1988
Prepare and execute the annual audit plan of the
Office of the Controller General for principal
entities and borrowers of international lending
agencies                                                   June 1988
Coordinate thte follow-up of the planning and execu-
tion of cash management in Government entities             July 1988
Record opening balances and track budget execution
and cash flows at the central level and implement
the accounting manual                                      July 1988
Organize the Systems Division of the Office of the
Controller General to comence evaluation of and
assistance to entities not included in the
Implementation Program for Principal Entities (PIEP)       September 1988
Implement the Treasury (cash management) system            October 1988
Place approved graduates from Courses III-B, III-C,
IV-A and IV-B as they become available                     April 1988 to May 1989
IMPLEMENTATION - CENTRAL GOVERNMENT OPERATING SYSTEMS
Initiate operational programming and budgeting             July 1988
Organize the Office of Personnel and advise on the
application of the interim regulations on personnel
administration                                             August 1988
Assist in review of budget for the following
fiscal year                                                September 1988



- 33 -                           An=ex 2.1
tage 5 of 5
SAFCO
SUMMARY TRII41ENTATION
SCHEDULE FOR 21 HNONTIS
ACTIVITY                                     MONTH
Initiate project administration and control                November 1988
Integrate approved graduates of Courses III-C and
IV-B as they become available                              April 1988 to May 1989
IMPLEMENTATION - PRINCIPAL ENTITY SYSTEMS
Commence Emergency Program in nine entities                 November 1987
Commence Emergency Program flow of information to
the National Treasury on availability and use
of funds in nine entities                                   January 1988
Prepare systems implementation programs for nine
entities by managers and their analysts and broaden
the Emergency Program to 12 entities                        March 1988
Strengthen Principal Entities with approved graduates
of Courses III-A and Ill-B                                  March 1988
Expand information flows to 12 entities                    April 1988
Prepare manuals on the programming and administration
of funds, public credit, budget execution and
accounting                                                 April 1988
Put into effect cash programing and management, budget
execution according to the Guide on Financial Adminis-
tration sending periodic reports to the Ministry of
Finance                                                    June 1988
Determine and verify opening balances of assets,
liabilities and equity and record financial transac-
tions according to manuals in effect                       June 1988
Expand Emergency Program to 15 entities                    July 1988
Begin introduction of automated financial and
administrative systems into public entities                August 1988
Commence operational programming and budgetting
for the following year                                     September 1988
Commence preparation of basic financial statements,
in accordance with systems manuals                         October 1988
Commence project administration and control                November 1988
Integrate approved graduates of Courses III-B, III-C,
IV-A and IV-B according to their availability              June 1988 to Harch 1989



SAFOD - EXPECTED RESULTS CENTER
A. Information to be Generated
ASSISTED BY
PRINCIPAL  WITH OTHER  MINISTRIES  SYSTES  EVELOPM  -
R  E  S U L  T  S              ENTITI      FINANCING    AND CM       OMCE OF           JR  TOTAIL -END OF
9 21        9 21         9 21            9       21           9  21
Mo. tMo.    Xebo.    MW. Mo.             MO.      moo         Mo. Mo.
--NU  OF ENTITIES
1. Anual budgets based on operating
programs                            -   9        -  6         -3              -        -           -    18
2. Periodic statements of sources and
uses of funds, pending commitments
and income, and budget execution      9   15       3  6         -  10           -        4          12  35
3. Basic financial statements             -   9        -  4         -  3            -        -           - 16
4. Continuous information flow on
personnel, government property and
contracts                             -   9        -  6         -3              -        -           -18
5. Periodic reports on progress,
problems and delays, reprogramming
and adjusted project budgets          -   5        -  3         -  2            -        -           -   10
6. Reports of internal audit units        -    5       -  4         -  3            -        3           -   15
7. External Audit - CGR: cash and                                                                                           ON
budget statements                     -   12       -  3         -   5           -        -           -  20                N



-35 -                                   A£nez 2*2
pae 2 of 4
w uMMi  wMIAMI  -I   n              c  sni               mmc
^ ~ ~ ~ ti O~                         wrmR   -
i - i     1b zi      W-7 aHiD      X        -       iX        a
- -laM OF * =xw -~~
Eq -        X_t1ans nKIt1 to *t
fbPd  eqti           id         of PI=    an co
pC's      _ -1 no=, psymme      9-12  15    3   6       -    -         -       -      12-15   21
(4mrstaffic   and   cam *A operattimil uPOinI4
hidptayfri          aid pr_ereaumlbudpt               -     9     -   6      -    3                  - -     -    18
Paprt. to tde V1A atd P1an-
rdvg hlnlstrtaa CopwaTtioOII
aA d umy                         -     9     - 6        -    3         -       -        -    18
?ij.ct u.iq    ardotV aeol       -     5    -   3       -    2         -       -        -    10
&ie  &itaet1                     -    12     3   6      -   10         -       4        3    32
aRtO to cf  PiWAn MIaUy
a_bstnt moit1m                   -    12     3   6      -   10         -       4        3    32
TceYWy              Pm _pmaW aiA cmotixn of
---h amgw=                       -    15    3   6       -   10         -       4        3    35
Repor ts c cia fUinm  ?fliUsc
ancash         , pla sdatual   -    IS       3   6      -   10         -       4        3    35
bkq    Aof£pOf ic cu6at          -    12    -   4       -   10         -       4        -    30
iA1zwut             Riqe1tyof f1wA1 op_udi            -    12    3   6       -   10         -      4         3    32
Pepwatim aiA tradtt   of
fiawcta statuimt                 -     9     3   6      -    3         -      -         3    18
Oertinal wSystc     EAbc peooaat ad wopet             -    15     3   6      -   10         -      4         3    35
Preu  _niqt                      -    12     3   6      -   10         -       4        3    32
QMwC t0  tral       Iaterol  trol                     -    15    3   6       -   10         -      4         3    35
awrnadaitlAg                    -     5    -   4       -    3         -       3        -    15
e/ 1e    11ur    arA 0wti= (1D-MUBD)
Csml Buk and AplcAal iak (MD)
on - on lS  ) )



- 36 -                              Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 4
C. eMAR  OF SYSg L   D         A       IN M   CEAL WlTILES
SYSTeI3                      wrlVrIrlS                            MONTIHS    MONrS         MONTHS
I - 9     10 - 21      22 - 35
Operational       Assist in Central Review of Operational
aDd Hxdgetary     and Budgetary Programming
Projects 'Monitoring                                                     ........
&Bdget            Prepare Budgets for Next Fiscar Year
Execution Central Government                             ..........
Monitor Execution of Other Entities
Pragaf. Program.ing and Management of Treasury Funds.                                             .....
Programming and Administration of Funds
by Other Entities
MaUnagement of Public Credit                    !........ ....
nconnting         Reg4stry of Central Government Financial
Operations
Review Financial Statements of Central
Government
Review Financial Statements of Other Entities
Compliance with EDP Standards
Operatioal        Monitor of Pablic Procurement and                           .... ... ....
syste             Property
Monitor Personnel Administration Structural
and Functional Organization
External Audit    Governmental External Audits
Syst_                                                                                        11  11
S . ... t .1e X



- 37-                            Annex 2.2
Page 4 o£ 4
D. SAPW - TRAINING
AND QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TARGET SCHEDULES
TRAINING SUIKAY
Nusber of Courses
End   10-            22-
Period    9    21      SUB    35
Na   of the Course             Weeks    No.   Ho.   TOTAL   1X.  TOTAL
I    SAFCO Principles                      1      40    35    75       25    100
II    Financial Management
Fundamentals                       4        -     6     6        2      8
III-A  Financial Management Standards        4       4      -     4       -       4
[II-B  Accounting and Internal
Control                            10       2    14    16        9     25
III-C  Operational and Budgetary
Programing                         4        -     5      5       9     14
III-D  Project Management and
Control                          7/5*       -     4      4       3      7
TV-A  EDP Accounting                        4       -    18    18       13      31
IV-B  EDP for Administrative Systems        4       -     4      4       4       8
V-A  Govw-nment Auditing                   9       -      3     3       4       7
*Shortened course for those who have taken III-C.
SU-ARY OF QUALIFIED PERSONNEL UNDER SAFCO
End         End             End
9          21              35
llo.        No.             Ilo.
Auditing:
Supervisor                                                               45
Senior Auditor                                            55            145
Subtotal                                                  55            190
Financial Administration:
Supervisors                                                -             45
Administrators                                            50             80
Accountants with EDP                          -           70             85
Accountant                                  120           25              -
Subtotal Professional Staff                 120          145            210
General Services Officer                      -            -              50
Subtotal                                    120          145            260
Project Execution:
Project Supervisors                           -           30             60
Project Administrator                                     70             b0
Subtotal:                                                100             120
TOTALS                                      120          300            570
_             _       



38-                           A38" 2.3
A. SACO
SUOMMY OF CONSULTANTS
B  Q&ALIMIC1TIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
EXECUTIVE ______A_ T                       ALIFICATIONS/tESPONSIBILITY
Advisory Director            Coordinate and monitor programs and work of
consultants and advise on norms/standards
Training Consultant          Coordinate training programs
Technical Assistance         Organize and monitor methodology development and
Consultant                   implementation of systems, and review financial
management programs in public entities
Automatic Data Processing   Automation of systems implementation
Consultant
Prime Consultant Contract   Reporting and communications between GOB and IDA
Manager        I             for project management contract
MINSTRY OF FINACE
Public Sector Accounting    Government accounting systems development and
Consultant                   implementation
Treasury Consultant          Cash management
Budget Consultant           Budget systems development and implementation
Public Finance/Credit       Public debt management
Consultant
om      i    OOTHL
Consultant in Systems        Systems development and training in government
Control                      accounting and internal control
Auditing Consultant #1       Systems-based audit methodology training and
development
Auditing Consultant #2       Systems-based audit methodology training and
development
Auditing Consultant  #3     Office reorganization and development of annual
audit plans



- 39          ~kAinex 2.3
Page 2 of 4
SAFCO
SMMRY OF CONSULTANTS
IY QUALIFICATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
MINIST!Y OF PLANNNG                          ABILITY/RESPOISIBILITT
Consultant in Procurement, Procurement and administration of government
Administration of Govern-   property and advice on project management
ment Property and Project   and control
Management
Consultant in Personnel      Personnel systems
Administration (CAP)
Consultant in Operational   Methodology development and training in
Programing and Budgeting   operational programming and budgetary and
systems implementation
Consultant in Project        Project execution and control
Accounting and Control
Consultant in                Advice and assistance in preparation of
Administrative Law           legislation for congressional approval
and key regulation
PRINCIPAL UYITIE
Program Managers (3)         Managers of Principal Entity Program
Implementation (including Emergency Program)



-40 -                             Annex 2.3
*                                         ~~~~~~~~~Pate 3 of 4
B.   SAFCO
Consultant and Analyst  bansonth Iglrmnts
(Twenty-oin HWutGs
Year  Month                                             Consultants   Analysts
(Nan Months) (Man Months)
Preparatory                                            3             7
1987  August                                                 7             4
September                                              7             4
October                                                9             4
November                                              14            17
December                                              14            18
1988  January                                               14            18
February                                              14            21
March                                                 14            21
April                                                 15            21
may                                                   19            32
June                                                  19            32
July                                                  19            32
August                                                19            35
September                                             19            35
October                                               19            35
November                                                            35
December                                              i8            35
1989  January                                               18            35
February                                              18            35
March                                                 18            35
April                                                 18            35
Short Term                                             9           -
343           546
Rounding                                            350           550
_-



-41                              Annex 2.3
C.   CONSULTNT AID ANALYST REQUIRNHNTB DY ENTITY
Consultants     Analysts           Total
m      No.     m       No.      m       No.
Executive Secretariat -
SAFCO Management                       94.0    5      112.0    6      206.0   11
Principal Entities                     54.0    3*    282.0   18       336.0   21
Ministry of Finance                    76.0    4      106.0    7       182.0   11
Ministry of Planning                   60.0    5       31.0    2        91.0    7
Office of the Controller General       66.0    4       19.0    2        85.0    6
350.0   21     550.0   35       900.0   56
* Three consultants, each supervising up to five entities in the Principal
Entities Program, ire responsible to the Executive Secretariat.



- 42 -                                 Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 9
SU  1TO aOF 
Manmonteh
Personnel and Activities                      Month      Cons. Anal.  Sr.
.                      .          . .      .         s     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prof .
I. EXWETIVE SECRETARIAX
-  Executive Secretary                                                         25
Plan, organize, direct and control the activities       -3 to XII
of the Executive Secretariat to provide leadership
In building the functions of Financial Administra-
tion and Cbntrol System (SAFCO) and to serve as
the Secretary of CONSAFOD
Prepare bidding documents for finms and identify        -3 to XIII
and help select individual consultants for SAFCO
-  Director of Standards Compatibility                     -2 to XXI                  23
-  Director of Training                                    -1 to XMI                  22
-  Director of Implementation in Decentralized
Entities (includes Emergency Program)                   -1 to XXI                  22
-  Legal Advisor                                           -2 to XXI                  23
-  Chief, Administration                                   -2 to XXII                 24
II.  PRJECT MANAGEMENT AND CENTRAL FINANCIAL
MANAGEME   SYSTEMS
-  Manager of Prime Consultants Contract                   I to XXII      4
Management of consultancy; evaluate external
consultant candidates, make periodic visits
to evaluate progress and do reprogramming
Give Course I, SAFCO Principles                         IV
-  Director of Technical Assistamce (DTA)                   I to XXII    22
Help prepare the draft SAFOO Law, and help              I to III
organize the Executive Secretariat
Make SAFCO norms/systems compatible.  Give              I to XXII
Course I. Assist the Executive Secretariat in
managing the SAFCO project, guide and evaluate
the work of SAFCO consultants and continuously
adjust the program
Ensure compatibility of SAFCO norms and monitor         I to XXII
supervision and implementation
1/ Mbnth I is August 1987.



- 43                                  A Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 9
,SAD
-LG        TM. OF R40
Manmonths
Personnel and Activities                      Ltonth      Cons. Anal1. Sr.
_____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ ____  _____ ____Prof.
-  Analyst, Executive Secretariat                                             23
Assist the Directors of Technical Assistance and        -2 to XXI
Standards Compatibility in ensuring that norms
and systems are compatible
-  Senior Professional, Executive Secretariat              -3 to XKI                  24
Assist Executive Secretary and 3TA, principally
in programming activities
-  Consultant in Training                                  I to XXI     21
Prepare and organize all training, including            I
examination on the Accounting Guide and all
technical aspects
Select participants for Course III-A, on
norms for Financial Administration                      II
Organize Training Center                                III
Prepare and give Course III-A and instruction
techniques for the courses                              IV
Give Course III-B on Accounting and Internal            VI1
Control
Prepare and give Course II, on Fundamentals of
Financial Administration                               XI
Give Course V-A on Government Auditing                  XVI
Manage the training program, control its quality
and serve as advisor for the Training Director          I to XOXI
Consultant, Technical Assistance for the                I to XXI     21
Emergency Program and Implementation in
Decentralized Entities
Prepare interim Guidelines for Financial
Administration and advise on selection of
managers and analysts for Emergency Program             I
Prepare and give seminar with managers and              IV
analysts for the Emergency Program, organize
systems, Implementation in the Principal Public
Entities, to assure the adoption of common metho-
dologies, and advise the Director on Imple-
tation of the Emergency Program and systems



Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 9
-AA  lMg OIP UWM
Manmonths
Personnel and Activities                       ffonth     Cons. Anal.  Sr.
-       -IProf.
Prepare the quality control system, monitor,
and ensure the compliance with the program and
implementation in the major public entities
Two Analysts                                                                36
Assist Director and consultant in implementa-           IV to XXI
tion/monitoring of the Emergency Program and
systems in principal public entities
Consultant in Accounting and Interal control
Systems (SIS)                                           I to XXI      21
Prepare technical norms for internal control            I
Prepare and give Course 1, SAFCO Principles             II
Prepare and give Course III a, Accounting and           IV
Internal Control
Prepare regulations for registering, qualifying,
and contracting independent auditing firms              X
Organize the Subcontroloria of Systems develop-         XV
went to evaluate and advise less complicated,
smaller entities not included in the
emergency program
Prepare and give Course V A, on Government              XVI
Auditing
-  Analyst on System  Development (OCR)                    XV to XXI             7
-  Two Senior Professionals                                                           14
Organize and conduct the activities of the              XV to XXI
Assistant Controller of Systems Development
-  Consultant in Government Accounting (MINFIN)             I to XXI     21
Prepare generally accepted accounting princi-           I
ples, applicable to the Bolivian public sector,
and technical accounting norms
Prepare accounting manual for entities in               IV
Central Administration



-45 -                                 Annex 2.4
Msnantnhs
Personnel and Activities                      Month       Cons. Mnal. Sr.
.____________________________________________ _ _   ____            Prof.
Distribute and Implant, revise and adjust the           X
accounting manual for the entities In the central
administration, and advise on the organization
and functions of the General Accounting office,
MINFIN
-  Analyot on Accounting (MINFIN)                                              19
Plan, organize, direct and control the activi-          III to XXI
ties of the General Accounting Office
-  Two Senior Professionals on Accounting (MINFIN)                                   36
Assist the General Accountant, MINFIN, in               IV to X1i
complying with the activities of this Office
-  Three Analysts - Accountin%  (MINFIN)                                       30
Help establish systems in 15 central government         VII to XXI
entities compatible with the overall SAFCO system
-  Consultant to the Treasury                              I to XXI     21
Complete the conceptual design of tie Treasury          I
System                                                                                             V
Prepare technical norms and instruction for the         II
Treasury System
Prepare and give Course III A, Norms for                IV
Financial Administration
Develop Manual for the Treasury                        VII
Install the Treasury System in the Central             X
Government
Effect Auditing of the System's Implementation         XVI
-  Analyst to the Treasury (MINFIN)                        I to XXI           21
-  Two Senior Professionals - Treasury (MNNFIN)            VII to XXI                30
Assist in performing the activities of the
Sub-secretariat of the Treasury
-  Consultant on Budgeting (MINFIN)                        I to XKI     21
Prepare Technical Norms and Systems for the Budget    I



- 4W6 -                                FoAane  2.4
SW
ar ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ arwh
.               M~~~~?anconths
Personnel and Activities                        fonth      Cons.T -ia, sr,
- - ~Prof.
prepare instructions for Budget Execution               II
Prepare and give Course III-A, Norms for                IV
Financial Adlmnistration
Develop the manual for budget execution                 V
Participate in the preparation of regulations           ix
on operational Progasming and Budgeting
Distribute and Implant the manual for budget            X
execution
Assist in preparing the budget for the
following year                                          XVII
-  Analyst - Budgeting (MINFIN)                            I to XXI            21
-  Three Senior Professionals - Budgetin  (MINFIN)          ix to XXI                 39
Help conduct activities of the Budget Sub-              I to XVIII
secretariat
INDIVIDUAL CONTRACIS FOR FINANCIAL SYSTEMS
-  Consultant for Public Credit (MINFIN)                   IV to XVI    13
Prepare Technical Norms for Public Credit               IV
organize office for Public Credit, MINFIN               VI
Prepare Instructions for Public Credit                  VII
Prepare Manual for ?ublic Credit                        VIII
Distribute and implant Hanual for Public Credit         X
-  Senior Professional for Public Credit (MWIFIN)                                     16
Assist the consultant in main activities, and           VI to XXI
help conduct of Public Credit Office
-  Consultant in Government Auditing I (CGR)               IV to XXI    18
Give Course I - SAFGO                                   IV



-47-                                   Annex 2.4
Page 6 of 9
uamIAI  TMi  orBoa
Mman Mnths
Personnel and Activities                         Month      Cons. Anal. Sr.
-      -   Prof.
Prepare and give Course Itl 8, Accounting                V
and Internal Control
Prepare regulation for registry, qualification,          X
and contracting of independent accounting firms
Develop Auditing Standards and Manual for                XI
Contraloria
Prepare and give Course V A, Governnent Auditing         XIII
- Consultant in Government Auditting II                    VII to XXI   15
Prepare and give Course III B, Accounting and
Internal Control                                         VII
Prepare Government Auditing Standards                    X
Develop Auditing Manual for Coittraloria.                XII
Give Course V A, Government Auditting.                   XVI
- Consultant in Government Auditing III                     X to XXI     12
Finish reorganization of the Subcontraloria
responsible for Auditing                                 X
Prepare Auditing Plan for Contraloria for current
fiscal year                                              xII
Assist in conducting audits and in presenting            XIV
reports
- Analyst for Central Auditi   Division                   X to XXI      12
- 5 Senior Professionals                                                              60
Conduct audits according to corresponding                X to XXI
annual plans
- Analyst for Regional Audits                              XIX to XXI           3
- 2 Senior Professionals                                                               6
Conduct audits of the Regional Contralorias
according to corresponding annual plans                  XIX to XXI



-4  -                                 Anuex 2.4
Fag e 7 orf -9
Man Months
Personnel and Activities                            Month      Cons. Anal. Sr.
-  Prof.
IV.   DIVIDUAL OR CONTRACTS WITH FWSG FOR
OPERATIONS SYSTEMS
Consultant in Electronic Data Processing, EDP            VII to XX1   15
Mechanize the Accounting System for Central Admin-
istration Entities (includes Treasury and Budget
Execution)                                               VII
Prepare and give Course IV A, EDP for Accounting
Systems                                                  X
Prepare Technical Standards for Electronic Data
Processing                                               XI
Prepare and give Course IV B, EDP for Administra-
tive Systems                                             XIII
-1 Analyst                                                                     1
Assist the EDP Consultant in preparing, devel-
oping and installing Electronic Data Processing
for General Accounting Office                            VII to XI
- 2 Analysts
Assist the EDP Consultant in preparing and give
Courses IV A and IV B                                    IX toXXI            26
- Consultant in Procurement, Goverment Property
Administration, and Project M n ement                    IV to XXI    18
Prepare procurement regulations for the public           IV
sector
Assist the Contraloria in organizing teams for
inventory taking and valuation by principal              VII
public entities
Assist in preparing operational programming              X
regulations
Assist in preparing aid giving Course III-C,
Budget and Operational Programming                       Xi
Prepare Instructions for Project Administration
and Control                                              xi



~ 49 -                              Annex 2.4
Page 8 of f9
Man Months
Personnel and Activities                            Month      Cons. Anal.  Sr.
Prof.
Analysts                                                  IV to XXI           18
- Senior Professional                                       IV to XXI                 18
- personnel Consultant                                     X to XXI      12
Prepare Interim Personnel e des                          x
Assist in preparing and giving of Course III-C           XI
Organize Personnel Office and advise on the imple-
meutation of Interim Personnel Rules
- Senior Professional                                                                 12
Assist the personnel consultant in completing his        X to XXI
tasks
Consultant in Operational and Budget                     X
Programing
Prepare and dictate Course III-C, Operational a-d        XI
Budget Programing
Assist in preparation of the Public Sector               XIV
Budget for the next fiscal year
- Analyst                                                  IX to XXI           13
X to XXI
- Two Senior Professionals                                 XI to XXI                  22
- Consultant in Project Accounting and Control             X to XXI      12
Prepare instructions on project administration           X
and control
Prepare and give Course III D, Project Adminis-          XII
tration and Control
- Senior Professional                                      XII to XXI
- Lawyer SFecializing in Administrative Law                I to XII       5
Assist in the preparation of the Law for an Inte-        I
grated Financial Administration and Control System
Assist in the preparation of the Procurement Regu-       VI
lations of Goods and Services by the Public Sector



-50-                                  Annex 2.4
Pa ge 9 of 9
SLUM  i       or ami
Man Months
Personnel and Activities                        Month      Cons, Anal  Sr.
___________ __________ __________ __________ __________Prof.
Assist in the preparation of regulations for             XI
Operational and mugdet Prograrming and Interim
Personnel Instructions
v. CONTRACrS (3) FOR EMERGENCY PROGRAM AND IMPLEMEN-
TATION IN PRINCIPAL ENTITIES
3 Maners and 12 Analysts                                IV to XXI    54    216
Conduct seminar to establish comwn procedures,          IV
adjust Interim Guide for Financial Administra-
tion and prepare Energency Program
Carry out cash flow programming and execution            IV
and budget execution according to the Guide for
Financial Administration, submitting periodic
report to the Ministry of Finance (9 entities)
Prepare manuals on programming and administra-
tion of funds, public credit, budget execution          X
and accounting
Determine and register opening balances for
assets, liabilities and begin registery of finan-
cial operations according to manuals prepared           XIII
Produce periodic financial reports                      XIII
Begin operational and budget programming                XV
Begin preparing basic financial statements
according to Accounting Manuals,                        XVI
3 Analysts in Electronic Data Processlng EDP                                27
(one for each tes)
Assist managers and other analysts in mechani-
zation of financial and administrative systems          XII to XXI
for entities
3 Analysts
IX to XXI          39
Tasks similar to those of the 12 original
analysts



Mu uauI mm AOMin  as mg rnm
(1) (2)  (3)  (4)   S)   (S)   (7)  ()  (9)    (10)           (11)   (12)   (13) (14)   (15)  (16)   (17)  (16)
du L         J                                    Ns  ass mm  v. moma m  I asF   __ _ S                                                                  miisC mo    w Il an  a
* Paem £ of  as    d r vaie     valuatim, ,sstm,    X    X    X    X    X    X      X    OK  Ltqid.   X          X       X      X     X      X     X       X     X
aid pentation, or mof fiscal auti  usbe it                                                    Serious X      SagsSer iom fl              Fsal    al Serlms Serious Flscal
diffilt to jmOe   qum    rlts, a8wd1sU to
OaUY      yted yatiij  jriad4ma.
Am m of usi   ti msyszi, ddic I w               K    KX     K    X    X    X      X    OK    I       X         K      X       X     X      X     X       X     X
_3   ffecj, djgsijjgu   a  at1 aeinj _-II btAl                                                     Kbmly      sic  Serious Sod    s.ria        Salim- SeriSoa
of polly and volak& oeraWting ad fimca dal ta -                                                    I*uittodiW
in am of bup, opmaiam. ad hoe 1nfrzmboo                                                            of rahwof
twints, for pcfle nlota                                                                           OP
A amx1mAflsystmd om   rt Iqxd fx u       ti4g      X    X    X    X    K    (K      X    (GK                     X       K      K      X    (XK     X      X
zIpdirits cf the <utitdma e.g., mudtod'                                         omplete                                    Seritu  Seri &      Serbs.- Serias
caomoIAtial .f                                                                                                                                 tb Acct. ND AhCt.
* La   aof    alt tr otsts       difflAit to ban K    X    X    X    X       X      X  XK               X        X       X       X     K     X X           X      X
#f1d    t i c=sMg or MIS t dat.                                                                                    Seuria.                    NM 66 "Mat.
L ack f seXatLo of function. h   ar wk             X    X    (1K   X    X    OK     X    (K   OK        UK       X       X       X    OK    UK    X        X      X-
_ udzatiaul axtrols.
e lb 0orserla  *wkms  Iantrols an                    (K  (K   OK   X    (K        X    (K   UK       X         X       X      X    X       X     X       X     X
Lamint                fls., aidi opm defit to                                                                       Serieus       Seerim
Ixqr antrl  a p.dhzf and pumt  wts.
e onb                                               X    X    X  X X         K X X                               X       X       X    X       X     X       X
patim lizetbcy  tl p        4*t.                                                                                                               Serliam
e  lb infai or atol o         a oisidiarbes.                                                            X
*  .iadu   fiactiXt1IA Of intlenl ai    due to     X         X    X          X      X    (OK    X       X                X       X     X      OK 
In jmraxu. Syste  trabt,                                                      (                           SriUm                                    eAIdig
aldrv1aIM of tass.
Cotrl  . 0lo
o Uitm  MBS waLInbe not poerly utiilsd for                   X                                  X
dda esmiz  or aatzul.



-52 -                              Annex 2.6
(m)
PIIU Djjg~                   IGI0   lCAL  iumA           IDA   USAL  TOTAL  CUr
Consultants                   3,300        -    3,300   3,300
Analysts                       1,800     450    2,250   2,250       -
Executive Secretariat             -      600      600     390     210
Other Senior Professionals        -      640      640       -     510    130  130
Salaries and Increments           -   4,340    4,340        -     790   3,550    70
Equipuent, Materials,
Facilities, Training            810    1,480    2,290     810    990    490   90
PPF Advances                    660      540    1,200     610    560       30   30
Subtotals - SAFCO             6,570    8,050  14,620   7,360   3,060  4,200   320



- 53-                            Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 7
ANALYSIS OF 3OLIVIhN
1986 TAX REI OtN
Background
1.        An essential component of the New  Economic Policy Is the 1986 Tax
Reform Law, through which the Government radically changed the taxation
system as a means of addressing the fiscal desequilibrium and building
toward reactivation*
2.         The critical objective of the reform is to reduce the high accu-
mulated fiscal deficit; until recently, this deficit was financed through
monetary emission, with the mounting deficit fueling the hyperinflation
which plagued Bolivia until last year.
3.        In  addition  and related to the inflationary process, the deficit
resulted from a pronounced reduction in fiscal revenues, which can be
attributed to four factors: i) fall In the international price of Bolivia's
exports; ii) corruption by public officials in charge of Internal Revenue
and Customs collections; iii) lack of administrative organization in these
entities; and iv) general evasion by the private sector, which stopped
paying taxes. As a result, fiscal earnings from taxes, customs and social
security, which previously equalled 10% of GDP, fell to less than 2X of GDP.
4.        One  of  the most  important  reasons  for tax reform is to enable
Government to continue avoiding use of monetary emission as the funding
source for public expenditures and to help enable a healthier mix of public
investment and recurrent expenditures.   Presently, public investment is
practically nonexistent.  The government's current expenditures are being
financed by taxes on gasoline and government. Employees' salaries have been
reduced drastically in real terms.  In many segments, the private sector
pays eight to ten times more for the same work. The number of employees was
by 40,000 or 17% in 1986. While such reductions were necessary, the severe
fiscal pressuee will keep public sector salaries and investments untenably
low, unless domestic and foreign revenues can be mobilized.
Content of the 1986 Tax Reform
5.        Responding to characteristics of the  Bolivian economic situation,
the 1986 Tax Reform Law shifts from the concept of taxing incomes to taxing
consumption and property by establishing six kinds of taxes:  value added;
complementary to value added; transactions; specific consumption; estimated
profit  by  enterprises;  and  estimated  profit  by  asset owners.    As  a
transition phase, the reform also established a one time regularization tax,
by which contributors could meet all outstanding tax obligations incurred
until December 31, 1985.
6.        All  collections  will be  through the  banking system.  In places
with no financial entities or where banks do not meet minimum requirements,
collection will be by Internal Revenue Offices, except for taxes on assets
or estimated profits which would be collected by the municipalities.



-54-                             Anne- 3.1
Pge 2 of 7
7.        Value Added Tax  represents  10% of  total  value  of sales and of
imports; moveable property imports; realizations from civil works and
service operations; and rental of personal property and real estate. There
will be a 10% discount for all purchases and inputs. Monthly collections
will be in the first 10 days of the subsequent month. Any favorable balance
from previous sales tax policies which taxpayers may have when the new VAT
becomes effective will be considered tax credits.
8.        Complmentary Tax to the VAT Is to  be paid by all Individuals and
dividend  earners.    The  payment  will  be  10%  of  monthly  income  from
depen-dents, professional honoraria, rental and interest receipts, cash
receipts, dividends payment, distribution or liquidation of stocks and
bonds. Income from dependents will be exempt for the equivalent of at least
two months minimum salary.   Payments on rents from abroad will not be
taxed.   Monthly collections will be done in the first ten days of the
subsequent month.  Taxpayers will be able to compute as payment of this tax
10% of the amount of purchases and contracts subject to the VAT.
9.        Tax on Luur  Consumer Goods  covers  manufacture  and  import  of
alcohol, cigarettes, perfumes and cosmetics, precious gems and jewels, and
introduces progressive  taxation  rates which  should reach 30X  (50%  for
cigarettes and jewelry) in three years. Monthly collection will be done in
the first ten days of the subsequent month. Any favorable taxpayer balances
will be used in future fiscal periods.
10.       Transactions Tax  consists  of a 1% tax on  transactions involving
sales, construction, services and rentals. Monthly collection will be done
in the first fifteen days of the subsequent month.  The notaries or notary
agents should use the price established by Article 75 of Law 843.  In the
case of sales made over a period of more than twelve months, the tax should
be paid at the same time as each purchase installment, inputing the relevant
amount for that fiscal period.
11.       Tax on Estimated Profits by Enterprise  replaces  the current pro-
fit tax regime and consists of a 2% annual tax on additions to net worth
over the year.   This tax will be collected annually before 120 days from
the end of the management period established by type of enterprise,
specifically:
March 31     - Industrial enterprises
June 30      - Agroindustrial and livestock enterprises
September 30 - Mining enterprises
December 31  - Banking, insurance, comercial and service
companies and others
From this tax, the tax on estimated profits for asset holders will be
deduced. Any positive balances to taxpayers will be consolidated in favor
of the Treasury.
12.       Taxes on Estimsted Profits of Asset Owners, together   with   the
Complementary Tax to' the VAT, replaces the present personal income tax
system.   It consists of an annual tax on owners of rural or urban real
estate, automobiles, boats and airplanes. Annual collection will be before



-SS-                             AnQe  3.1
Page 3 of 7
February 28.  Payment will be through the banking system.  Revenue will be
distributed in the place of collection according to "coparticipation' as
established by Law 843.  On rural real estate, 75Z of collection will go to
the Regional Fund for Rural Development and with be abscribed to the place
of collection. Regarding taxes on other types of non-oveable property, the
municipalities will receive 0.35X of the value of said property.  (This tax
is kept from earlier laws).  The tax reform replaces 411 other previous
municipal taxes on goods.
13.       !egularization Tax  includes  tax  on  company  net  worth  up  to
December 31, 1985 and on owners of real estate, automobiles, boats and
airplanes until this date. Replaces income tax due up to 1985 and includes
a blanket tax amnesty up to December 31, 1985.
14.       Coarticipation In Other Tazes.  Earnings from other taxes created
by the reform plus customs rents will be distributed according to the
following  percentages:      Central  Government,  75X;  Departments,   102;
Municipalities,  102;  Universities,  52.    The  10  corresponding  to  the
Departments should in no case represent less than 100% of the tax on beer
consumption for each producing Department. In case such a situation should
emerge, the National Treasury will take the appropriate steps to ensure the
taxes are reintegrated.
15.       In  addition,  the  new law  establishes  prison sentences for tax
evaders and introduces the idea of keeping tax debts current by indexing
them to the official US dollar rate. The law also stipulates that interest
on tax debts can not be less than commercial bank rates.
16.       The  Reform  annulled  the former tax legislation except for muni-
cipal-level taxes on urban inmovable property (0.35% of appraised value), on
vehicles (12 of value) and on aspects which do not have correlation under
the new  law.   At  departmental  and national  levels,  taxes  created  by
hydrocarbon and mining law and taxes on the exploitation and marketing of
rubber, chestnuts and wood are maintained; the latter would benefit the
producing areas.
Characteristics of the New Tax Law
17.       The  reform's pragmatism and simplicity permit confidence that, if
the reform is implemented efficiently, tax collections should increase
rapidly to their historical level of 102 of GDP. Under the new legislation,
it is possible to design a highly automatic system which will permit:
(a) tax collections to be handled by the banking system; (b) a simplified,
smoother administrative process; (c) a substantial reduction in required
personnel; and (d) greater ease in auditing and supervision tasks.   These
steps, plus the seriousness of the new tax collection process in Bolivia
will be the most effective tools against the historical tax evasion and
corruption.
1t.       The  change  in  the  concept  of taxation  (taxation no longer on
income, but on property and consumption) corresponds to recent trends in tax



-56-                             Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 7
18.       The change in the concept of taxation (taxation no longer on income,
but on property and consumption) corresponds to recent trends in tax legisla-
tion which seek to neutralize the difficulties encountered with using Income
and profits as the bases for taxation.   The large number of "underground"
activities and unregistered taxpayers and the practice of underreporting have
encouraged evasion and impeded effective taxation, As a result, the tax base
does not respond to changes in GDP, and taxpaying companies are at a disadvan-
tage in relation to their non-paying counterperts.   By basing taxation on
property and consumption, the margin for tax evasion is reduced, as property
and consumption are more easily monitored than income. Also, indirect taxes
have been efficient instruments for economic stabilization* In this way, the
new tax legislation in Bolivia taxes what individuals and entities own and
consume, not what they earn, and turns consumers into tax agents under the
complementary VAT.
19.        The main disadvantages of the new system relate to the regressive
structure of consumption taxes.  Progressive scales are provided for in the
case of taxes on vehicles and real estate. The system is only equitable with
regards to the discount associated with Complementary Taxes to the VAT (if it
is assumed that marginal propensity to save is a direct function of income
levels).
Application of the Law
20.         To implement the Tax Reform, work has been undertaken on three
fronts.    Administration  of  "regularization"  tax.    The  June  30  date,
established by law as a deadline to pay the tax was changed several times.
Collection of the "regularization" tax has been through the banking system and
has surpassed initial estimates (an estimated  $25 million were collected).
The government sees the success of the regularization tax as a public vote of
confidence and as a sign that the image of tax collection has begun to change
in Bolivia. In 1986 the Internal Revenue did begin processing the data on the
regularization tax, on recently acquired computer equipment. The deficiencies
in the information received and produced by the banks (due to forms that were
improperly designed) have produced enough inconsistencies so that only part of
the data produced will be useful for design of the new system. To date there
is a one-month delay in data processing.
21.        Regulation of the six basic taxes. A commission, presided over by
Mr. Ramiro Cabezas (now Minister of Taxation) and composed of Bolivian experts
who were not in the present tax administration system, developed the new tax
regulations.    The  proposed  tax  regulations  were  scrutinized  by experts
contracted especially for the system design.  The Government's indecision in
adapting a new institutional framework (Ministry without portfolio or
continuing with Undersecretariat of Collections in the MOP) slowed the process
of formulating the regulatory decrees for the Tax Reform Law in the period up
to the decision to form the Ministry, taken in January 1987.



-57                              Annex 3.1
Page S of 7
22.        System Design and Iuiplementation.  A group of experts financed by
BID/UNDP, has been working on the design of the new Bolivian tax administra-
tion system since the end of September 1986.   Nineteen foreign consultants
work with a group of about 20 Bolivian counterparts. The composition of the
group is to guarantee that the system take into account the Bolivian reality
while ensuring an effective technology transfer to the Bolivians who will
administer the system. The government's delay in selecting the Bolivian group
and in appointing a minister made coordination more difficult until January
1987.
23.         After the passage of the tax reform in May 1986, the government
demonstrated indecision in important organizational aspects of tax administra-
tion. The government's delay in deciding on the leadership for tax adminis-
tration resulted in a lack of coordination with the group of consultants,
delays in the formation of local counterparts and weaknesses in work supervi-
sion.
24.       Corruption in tax administration (which is confirmed in the Bolivian
case) stems mainly from the complex tax systems which make automatic processes
difficult, and require heavy contact between officials and taxpayers.   In
Bolivia, an additional incentive for corruption is the inadequate salary
structure of the Internal Revenue: 98% earn less than US$65 monthly, with 70%
earning iess than US$37.  These salaries are ten times lower than correspon-
ding private sector salaries.   However, not all officials are corrupt, and
corruption is particularly heavy in the auditing department.
25.        In Bolivia top officials display an excessive lack of confidence in
the civil service. This indiscriminate lack of confidence, which is particu-
larly strong regarding Internal Revenue employees, means that the qualified
staff is not used and their initiatives not encouraged.   During 1986 the
Internal kevenue was practically paralyzed. Only two departments were dealing
with the regularization tax: demoralization and disorder prevailed.
26.         The Internal Revenue has not been well managed in the past few
years. Employees did not receive precise instructions nor were their tasks
well-defined; a manual stating functions exist but few are familiar with it.
As a result, there has been a lack of supervision and control of activities.
27.         Also, there is no personnel policy that establishes incentives,
promotion, and training criteria or procedures.
Recommndations
28.        As a result of interviews made during the IDA's October 1986 visit
to Bolivia and incorporating points raised here, the following recommendations
were made to speed the process of implementing the tax reform and make it more
efficient.



- 58 -Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 7
29.       Organization of the Process* In October 1986, the mission suggested
that the Government decide as soon as possible if it will appoint a Minister
of Taxation to manage tax administration in the next few years, or if this
responsibility would remain with the Undersecretariat of Collections in the
Ministry of Finance. The proposed Ministry of Taxation would have a limited
duration and would be established by decree. Even though the creation of a
Tax Ministry runs counter to technical arguments for collection and expendi-
ture under the same Ministry, in the Bolivian case a separation is justified.
The Government took the decisionb to establish the Ministry of Taxation in
January 1987.  The Ministry of Taxation will:  (a) contribute to creating a
new image which tax administration needs to win back taxpayers' confidence;
(b) favor the technical orientation of a new system as opposed to the
historical political orientation; (c) facilitate the contracting of high
quality Bolivians (including Mr. Cabezas); and (d) confirm the Government's
political commitment to implementing the reform. Second, the October mission
recommended that priority be given to hiring:   the group of Bolivians as
counterparts in the system's design to ensure a genuine technology transfer.
30.         Regarding relience on banks for collections, the banks should be
advised  in  the process  of  purchasing equipment  necessary  for  their  new
function. The banks were ready to cooperate and some in La Paz, Santa Cruz,
Cochabamba and Oruro already have computer systems.  The incentive which has
been provided to the banks by allowing them to hold tax collections for 10
days seems a sufficient incentive to the bankers.
31.        Consultant Work Program   The program was reformulated in its two
stages.  Modules D and E were included in the first stage as well and work
included on:  completion of the taxpayers' registration systems, supervision
and collection by the banking system, control and auditing notification, and
coparticipation.    The design of  forms,  procedural manuals,  and  computer
programs to facilitate electronic processing and the systematization of all
the tax administration are incorporated in the first phase.   In this period
publicity campaigns would also be designed and conducted.
32.       Terms of reference related to the work to be done in Modules D and E
were  prepared.    The  organizational  diagram  for  Internal  Revenue  should
include:   public information functions; computation; legal advice, billing,
coordination of regional administrations; coordination of the banking system,
analysis of statistics; supervision of information to the Government and
formulation of tax policy; personnel policy and organization; documents and
archives; purchases; supervision and maintenance.   The establishment of the
banking system should include organization units to inform and advise the
taxpayer; supervision and collection; magnetic data registration; coordination
with  Internal  Revenue.      In  the  case  of  Internal  Revenue,  the  new
organizational diagram represents a substantial change from the existing
system.    The  legislation  established  by  the  reform  creates  a  simpler
institutional structure, which concentrates on the above mentioned functions
and makes some the sections and divisions in the existing organizational.
diagram obsolete.



-59-                             Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 7
33.         _uu Resource Polic.e  A human resource plan Is being devised, and
should include the following:
(a) itrategy to reduce Internal Revenue personnel, taking advantage
of the mobility resulting from low salaries and retirement.
(b) A *alary structure which will facilitate the appointment of a
hig1lly qualified management group and motivated officials,
including contracting fixed term appointments to encourage
higher salary payments.
(c) Design and implement a permanent system of training and
refresher courses.
34.           Corruption will decrease if less contact is required between
officials and taxpayers, if processes become more automatic, if the banking
system participates more actively in the collection process, and if unions and
private entities can increase their role in providing information and advising
taxpayers. These objectives are possible to achieve only with a simple system
and with new kinds of taxes which discourage evasion.



-bO-                             Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 6
BOLIVIA
TAX ADXI ISTATION
PHASE It
ACTIVITIBS MND SUMARY TOR
I. Objective
The objective of the second phase of the tax administration program
is to complete and consolidate the execution of the Tax Reform approved in May
1986, and establish an efficient and effective tax administration.
IIe Schedule
This second phase will be executed between June 1, 1987 and December
31, 1988.
III. Achievement
1.        The taxes covered in the project are:
-   Value added taxes (IVA)
-   Complementary taxes to the value added tax (RC-IVA)
-   Transactions tax (IT)
-   Special consumer goods tax (ICE)
-   Tax on enterprises' estimated profits (RPE)
-   Tax on estimated profits of asset owners (RPPB)
2.        The tasks to be executed can be divided into the following areas:
a) Installation, follow-up and adjustments of the basic systems
designed in the first phase (September 15, 1986 to May 31,
1987).
b) Design, programming and installation of subsystems for control
of compliance with formal tax obligations and payments by
taxpayers.
c) Design and implementation of procedures for tax auditing.
d) Improvements in legislation associated with the establishment of
the Tax Reform and development of the system of fines, sanctions
and automatic payment.
e) Follow up actions on structural and organizational changes in
tax administration, as defined in the first phase.
f) Regulations for Chapter I of Title IV of Law 843 - Rural
Property Tax:  basic design of systems for its application and
detailed design and installation of systems for collection and
control of the above tax for properties that are fiscally the
most important.



Annex 3e2
g)  Design  and  establishment  of  tax  statistics,  and  design  of
methodology for studies in the tax area*
h)  Training needed for efficient tax administration, and operation
of systems and procedures.
I)  Development of diffusion and publicity functions to encourage
voluntary compliance with fiscal obligations.
3.        The tasks to be undertaken are the following:
A. Installation, mitorims and adlutunit of baslc systems desimd in the
First Phs.
A.1 Development and consolidation of Computing Center.
A. 2 Complete the installation, maintenance and adjustment of the
collection system by the banks (RPPB - excluding the rural property
tax and the Simplified Tax Regime).
A.3 Set up, maintain and adjust the system for handling tax evaders and
those having made errors In calculating payment (IVAq RC-IVA, IT,
ICE).
A.4 Set up, maintain and adjust the system to handle those who have
failed to file or who have submitted incorrect declarations (RPE and
Simplified Tax Regime).
A. 5 Maintain and adjust the systems for the census of taxpayers, and in
collection procedures through banks (IVA, RC-IVA, IT, ICE and RPE).
5.  DesitP, for    g  and  Iumtallatlo   of &ubsyste   to  Comtriol the
Co29lance with Formi Tax Obligations and Pa!EnUts.
B.1 Develop a system to follow compliance by large contributors having
the greatest fiscal impact (IVA, RC-IVA, IT, ICE and RPE).
The following tasks will be included:
- Design the data base for contributors according to their fiscal
impact.
- Set up the unit that will control the taxpayers having the largest
fiscal impact.
- Design the legal instrument that will determine which contributors
are covered under the large taxpayer controls.
- Design the system for notifying and instructing contributors
being supervised/controlled.
- Development and install software for a timely control system that
will allow for an, immediate check of the taxpayer's current
account including: submission of sworn tax statements; payment;
deferred payment; and transfers and compensation.



- 62 -                         Amuex 3.2
Be2 Design and install a system to register and control transactions not
Included in the basic system. For example: transfers and compensa-
tions stemming from taxpayer's use of disposable income (IVA, RC-IVA,
IT, ICE and RPE); and the use of certificates for integrating paymnt
of expo,.t taxes against payment of other taxes. Work will Include:
developing  the  software;  procedural  nomse;  and  training  for
establishment of system.
3.3  Develop and set up a system to control submission of legal tax decla-
rations by those taxpayers who have failed to meet the subssion
deadline (IVA, RC-IVA, IT, ICE and RPE). The followlag tasks will be
Included: design, production and distribution of forms; development
of system software; procedural norms; and training for set up.
S.4 Design and install a system for payment requirements from taxpayers
who did not pay according to sworn statements or who partially
cancelled payment.
5.4.1 Information on taxpayers who did not comply with payment or paid
only partially  (RPE):    design,  productlon and distribution of
judicial notice; development of system software; procedural norms;
and training for set up.
5.4.2 Identification of taxpayers with outstanding tax payments after
legal notification, to enforce mandatory compliance. The following
tasks will undertaken: development of system software; procedural
norms; training for set up.
5.5 Develop and establish a system which enables Installment payments and
related controls, determining installment periods and amounts, and
conditions under which such an arrangement should be retracted, due
to noncompliance by taxpayers. The tasks will include: design of a
project setting up the legal framework for the system of tax payment
by installment; system to supervise plan according to set expiration
dates; design, production and distribution of personalized payment
cards to cancel installments; development system softwarpm. procedural
norms; and training.
Be6  Develop and install a system for payment and control of the following
areas:  (IVA, JR-IVA, IT, ICE and RPE):  value maintenance; interest;
fine on interests; fine for noncompliance with legal obligations.
B56.1  Supervision system.   The  following  tasks, will  be  undertaken:
design, production and distribution of judicial notification forms;
development of system software; procedural norms; and training.
5h6.2 Information system for taxpayers who did not pay legal tax
obligation, for purposes of legal enforcement. The following tasks
will  be  included:    development of system software;  procedural
norms; and training In implementation.



-63 -                            Anne  3.2
Page 4 of 6
C%   esig  and establisbut of Taz Audittng Procedre
C.l Develop and install tax auditing systems (IVA, RC-IVA, IT, ICE and
RPE). Tasks will include:
C.1.1  Identification of economic sectors estimated to incorporate the
largest tax evaders.  Objective and centralized selection of tax-
oeyera to be audited, within the group of largest evaders in the
isconomic sector analyzed.
C.1.2  Provision to auditors with relevant inforeation from existing date
bases.
C.1.3  Design  of  procedural  instructions  for  planning,  execution  and
supervision of tax audits.
C.1.4  Definition of personnel qualifications and needed staff for tax
auditing.
C.1.5  Selection and integration of relevant personnel into the system.
C.1.6  Training of auditors to perform their specific functions.
C.2 Provide information to mayors' offices to ensure effective supervi-
sion over taxes and to provide schedule of steps to be taken (RPPB,
except for taxes on rural properties).
C.2.1  Taxes on Urban Real Estate.  Planning of information transfers to
mayors' offices; and design of supervision system that _l allow
for cross-checking between the information in the sworn tax and
statement the data that may be includee in land surveys.
C.2.2  Taxes, on Vehicles, Boats and Airplanes.   Design of a supervision
system to be used by mayoral offices.
De Ehae  Iu Legslatlon Related to Tax Reform Ielemntation and Develop-
mnt of Sstem of Fin,e, Sanctions, and CoMlMery Payment.
Advise on the necessary changes to tax law. A first analysis shows that
the following areas will be changed or added to during the course of project
Lmplementation.
D.l Regulations for the System of Simplified Taxes.
D.k Regulations for the Complementary System to the Value Added Tax.
D.3 Definition of a precise procedure for determining the functions that
can be carried out by the General Tax Directorate.
D.4  Definition of a s(stes to officially determine taxes according to
precise estimates.



-64-                             Annex 3.2
Pa~ge - of 6
D.5  Incorporate into the tax code a rapid procedure allowing the tax
administration to determine estimated tax payments based on previous
tax statements--in cases where no sworn tax declaration it made (RPE
and ICE).
D.6  Review and changes of the system of fines, sanctions and compulsory
paymente
D.7  Evaluation of tax legislation based on results obtained during the
reform's implementation.
B.  Monitor     and Completion of the OrSgaistios  Reftorom as Defined Im the
First Phae.
Eel Implementation schedule for proposed organizational structure.
E.2 Implementation of reform for organizational structure.
X.3 Evaluation of implemented structural reforms and needed additional
changes.
Fe  Regulatlons of  hapter 1 of Title IV - Rural Prpert  Taxesi Basie System
Design for Iuplrnntationto Detailed Design and ImieenaIon of Sytrn
to Collect and Supervise this Tax In Areas of Greatest Winal Loortanne
P.1  Prepare project for regulations for Law 843, Chapter 1 of Title IV,
Rural Property Tax.
F.2  Global design of tax collection and control systems.
F.3  Design and implement collection and control system for areas with
greatest fiscal impact.
P.4  Prepare a preliminary implementation plan that will define technical
assistance needs to develop a detailed tax collection and control
system, and the needed resources.
Go  Design and Implenentatlon of Tax Statistics and Design of MaletdlogI   for
Studies In Tax Area.
G.1  Determine the information needs of the main users of tax information
(MOP, Ta*ation Ministry, Planning Ministry INE, Bolivian Central
Bank, General Controller of the Republic and Information Ministry).
G.2  Determine  the statistical archives  In  the Tax Administration  to
incorporate existing information that can be used by different
ministries.



- 5 -                            Annex 3.2
G.3  Produce the basic statistics to evaluate the progress of taxes in the
Ministry of Tax Collection, such as:
- Collection by department and economic sector for each tax (IVA,
RC-IVA, IT, CZ and RPE).
- Favorable balances by economic sector and geographic zone (IVA).
- Collection by economic and administrative sectors divided into
categories of total payment and installment paymentl
- Incidence of patrimony by economic sectors (RPE).
- Collection according to kind of good and geographic zone (RPPB).
- Collection by value scale and geographic zone (RPPB)a
The following tasks will be included:   design of tables; development of
software systems; instructions for reading tables; training for calculation
and reading of tables; and manual fcr forecasting tax collection based on
statistics.
Be Trainin for X!Slemetatlon of Systeme and Procedures
Implementation of a new structure and procedures requires major effort for
technical training and changes in the attitude of personnel involved in the
process. Training should be on two levels: (a) initial training for imple-
menting each one of tile project's activities; and (b) institutionalization of
training as a permanent activity. A global training plan should be produced
that will include the creation of a Tax Administration Training Center which
will have the necessary human resources and materials to fulfill this very
important function.
Presently, assistance is being provided in this area through the Sub-
Component VI:  training and advisory services according to Agreement ATN/SF
2353-BO, from the IDB. This support is essential to the project. Additional
investments are needed in material, training equipment and training locations
in order to further develop the tasks.
I.  Publicity Progras to Encourage Voluntary Coliance with Fiscal Obliga-
tions.
To implement the Tax Reform effectively, it is essential that publicity be
well planned to inform the population about those aspects of the reform that
can be implemented in a uniform manner. Publicity should continuously inform
and remind the population of its tax obligations, and the risks associated
with noncompliance.   To achieve this objective,  the UNDP should continue
providing support, contracting local and foreign communications experts to
assist the Collections and Information Ministries, which work closely with the
consultants in Tax Administration.



-66-                               Annex 3.3
PaeI of 
Oinmtt Rus s
Areas                           Malmths               Costs                      Financing
Forein/Local  Forelin    Local    Total Cost   Source
1. Imuplementation, Follow-up
and Adjustments on
First Phase Activities       16              128,000          -      128,000  IDB/UNDP
2. Subsystems for Comp Uance
Control                      62      109    496,000    109,000       605,000  IDB/ P
3. Auditing                      45       34    360,000    34,000        394,000  IDA
4. Adjustmnt in Legislation      15              120,000          -      120,000  IDB/UMDP
5. Consolidation of Module E
- Organization               12        5      96,000      5,000      101,000  IDA
6. Rural Property Tax            19              152,000          -      152,000  IDB/UNDP
7.  Statistics & Studies         15       17    120,000      17,000      137,000   IDA
8. Training                      12        -           -          -            -   IDB*
9.  Diffusion & Publicity         6        -           -          -            -  Um4DP*
10.  Coordination & Supervision    30 I/    -     255,000          -      255,000  IDB/UND?
11.  Special Advisers             16 1/    -      136,000          -      136,000   IDB/UND
12. Other Consultants              7.5                                     60,000  IDA
230     165   1,863,000    165,000    2,088,000
Core Counterparts (30 x 18 x
US$10ooo)                                                    540,000      540,000  IDA
Equipment and Training
Materials                                                                  60,000  IDB
TOAL COST                                                               2,628,000
* Other support program financed by IDB.
** Other support program financed by UNDP.
1/ US$8,5000 per Month.



IMW*L MU AN Om      S 4W  -M
05)
FnS PHASE
NES                                                         SCOD          1wrtL
SOURCE            As B. C,     Ds                              TrA
SOUR(Z   A, B, C,     D, £E           COUNTERPART     1~TLPHASE                     ODST
IDB            592,040                             -       592,040        1,096,000    1,096,00(!2/
UDP            457,960            -                -       457,960          300,000      757,960             g
IDA                  -      213,000           150,000 1/   363,000        1,232,000    1,595,000
WEAL          1,050,000     213,000           150,000    1,413,000        2,626,,00   3,448,960
T irty people X 5 moaths X U5$1,OO0.
2/ 1JMW-OPS amnistrative costs and contingencies and cost of project coordwoator uld be added tos
base cots.
11



An68  3.4
Pag 1 of 5
Tax Ads nistratlom
Phase X - PrP IaUts
Module D: Istlated Costs
(US$)
Activity                                                    Consultants
Foreign        Local
Manweeks      Manweeks
Definition of Design                                     4.0            4.0
System Programming and Design (Processing,
Contribution, Checking)                                33.0            75.0
Design of Forms, Tnstructions                           3.0             8.0
Training (Receipt and Processing)                        3.5           12.0
Collection (Supervision, Assessment)                    6.0            10.0
Consolidation and Analysis                               3.0            9.0
System of Control of Missing Information
(Sample Visits, Analysis)                               6.0            24,0
Notification System                                      1.0            6.0
Recommendations for Official Land Register              0.5             1.0
TOTAL MANWEEKS                                         60.0           148.0
TOTAL MANMONTHS                                         15.0           37.0
CONSULTANT COSTS                                   $120,000         $29,600
TOTAL COST: US$149,600



-69-                            Annex 3.4
Tax Admiaistration
Module K: gstiiated Costs
Activity                                                  Consultants
Foreign        Local
(manweeks)    (manweeks)
Definition of Relevant Issues                           2.0            5.0
Ceneral and Detailed Design                             4.0            8.0
Selection of Administration                             0.5             1.0
Determination of Number and Kind of Positions           1.0            5.0
Manual of Organization and Functions                    3.0            14.0
Selection of Personnel                                  3.0            2.0
Training of Officials                                   3.0            11.0
Determination of Offices, Furniture, Equipment           -              4.0
Selection of Banks and Assigning of
Taxpayers to Banks' Jurisdiction                        1.0             5.0
Identification of Collection System in Places
Outside Purview of the Banking System                   1.0             3.0
Negotiation with Banks                                  1.5            2.0
TOTAL MANWEEKS                                         20.0            60.0
TOTAL MANMONTUS                                         5.0            15.0
CONSULTANT COSTS                                    $40,000        $12,000
Costs of Service of Personnel Selectic'n                -           10,000
Estimated Total Cost:                                           US$ 62,000



- 70 -                         ^Anua  3.4
Page 3 of 5
Tax Adalaistratiou
Term of Reference - PPF II
Nodule D - Term of Reference
1. Objective - Design and implement the system of estimated rents of property
owners.
2.   Definition - Tax for motor vehicles and real estate which should be treated
separately.
3. Expected results for tax on motor vehicles and real estate:
a)   Programs for automatic processing of information (registration, processing,
consolidation, checking and inconsistencies).
b)   Design and printing of forms to be completed by taxpayer, and accompanying
instructions.
c)   Training and advising of bank officials in charge of receiving forms and of
tax verification, registration and processing.
d)   Training  and advising of  Internal Revenue and regional administration
officials in charge of information processing, consolidation, and taxpayer
listings.
e)   Advisors for information analysis.
4.   Specific results for motor vehicles:
Design and printing of appropriate stamps to acknowledge tax payment.
5.   Specific results for real estate:
a)   The system should include a real estate register which would temporarily
substitute for the official land registers and which would establish the
basis for a future project establishing official land registers.
b)   Train   and   advise   Internal   Revenue   officials   in   checking   for
inconsistencies.
c)   Design and implement a system to check for missing information (including
the training and advising of officials in charge of system operations).
d)   Design and implement a system of tax notification, legal notification and
billing (includes training and advising of responsible officials).
e)  Hlake recommendations so that future official land registers can contribute
to and draw from information in the central system.



71-                               Annex 3.4
6*   Obervationss
-    Taxes should be collected via the banking system.
-    In the case of motor vehicles, there is no need for a formal tax model.
7. Xaziuam Duration: 12 months
Nodsl K - Terms of Referece (1)
1. Oblective - Define the organizational structure of Tax Collection System of
Bolivia and advise in its implementation.
2.   Definitios:
a)   The  organizational  structure  establishes  the  functions  of  the  Tax
Collection System, identifies its interrelated functions, and assigns the
functions to the various components of existing institutions to maximize
the efficiency of tax administration.
b)   The Tax Collection System includes the collection entities (banks) and
central administration entities, i.e., Internal Revenue and regional or
decentralized administrations.
3.  l=iected Results:
a)   Detailed design of the organizational structure of Internal Revenue.
b)   Detailed design  of  the  organizational  structure  of  the  regional  and
decentralized tax administrations.
c)   Detailed design of the planned organizational structure for collecting
entities (Banks).
d)   Determine the minimum number of positions in Internal Revenue, regional and
decentralized administrations, and banks (for collection purposes).
e)   Determine functions for each organizational component of Internal Revenue,
regional and decentralized administrations, and banks.
f)   Preparation of manuals delineating above functions.
g)   Determino the grading for each of the positions.
h)   Determine appropriate mechanisms for selecting the persons. who will fill
positions and advise in their selection.
i)   Provide basic instruction to officials in the specific functions for which
they  are  responsible  according  to  their  position  within  the  tax
administration system.



- 72 -                              ADu.z 3.4
pag 5 of 5
J)   Determine criteria for identifying the banks which would be eligible for
collection.
k)   Determine the main requirements for buildings and equipment for Internal
Revenue, banks, and regional administrations.
1)   Advise the Government in negotiation with banks.
a)   Devise collection systems for areas where there are no banks, and establish
communication with nearest banks.
n)   Identify the above areas and assign banks to those areas.
4.   Observationa:   The organizational structure should comply with the appropriate
Bolivian legislation.
The task at hand is to set up an organizational structure which
will facilitate the luplementation of the reform, and which
should be periodically evaluated and revised.
5.   Maxim= Duration (not including the revision/adjustment period):  four months
starting November 1, 1986.



73                              Annex4e1
UANUIEG SYSTEM UKYORM
LUT     BANK 1   DOLfVMI     -
IKI  AC IONS IN RBORGMIZATOU
(July 1Iva to Juuw 19y7)
J-O  Nov  DeC  Jan  Feb  Kw  Apr  May  Jua
- Design of the organizational
plan, functions for head-
quarters and branches                A
- DecisLon on organizational
plan, functions                            A    ------A
- Legal changes - Central Bank
Drafted                          A
Enacted                                          A
- Determination of positions for
managers, others                           A-----A
Decision on adjustments in
personnel, new salary structure
and severance arrangements               A ------A
Supreme Decree-Ratification
Announcement of above, after
public forum on Reorganization
of Financial System                                     A
Design by stagea the transition
in functions/current accounts                  A
- Make organization changes, assign-
ments, reductions                                         A--A
- Close branches, as accounts of
PEs transferred                                           A --A
- Instructions, orientation,
training, manuals                          A------A--                    
A - for actions implemented.



1 tR#    OM OFW  BI VIA
IUTRUMIPIOM F mys SMmUug SWITS.
CEC-            -         mt-   -.4   SEP~    i   OS
2 3              *     4    *    *    4    4         4     4    Xt 
MR my    m    i e
11 AOI0TIDI - C011RAL.M
Al bMlstatrhtlhs Spt
-  Cistlaus lr.emitetios  04u  accosts ragistretlos spstm  sltlate  to Otob    IWA. s tarlCa
to   r      1t  tw lgiA   tlog circuar.                                                              _
-  Oigs  tfreip curruscy reglstrtlus system for COatral Bud  raosacitlm * to. fmrelg  earoescis.
-  Propare for lstrdoctl<s ot  _outerIsd tebstiwn. eel tIs?lag watless iprt las, aid
cod4ftlwg te relevant occoutlag eatwlea sA* as beam, gull Ic  stereas. lotoraetlmg
agaslascas. relat" eatltlas, helag to slid t4e cosf Iguratlon of the  tftre oatrlsaed
"Spat.
-  Oelgp no l.trsctls for tsetiCtlag eatrlas 0w catro). to ie used by tt0 wortIos opertalng
omits  _ds te i" sast.                                                                                          -
-   tplmastetlatts mad alterlg of te ctwutetrld          latg Systas tfr bet te opertlag volts
_d  tu  cstral accoamIag divIsica.
S1 Catrol trocedwres
-  OCiag ead estallsast of procweres tfr asitear laid swrv isl4ag  atroat Sr\w besl.c-s.
-  Costi_s  vita lapltatetiao. regular ast los ad adjustUbtS In pSt accostIng entries.
-  bgs  aid t lap  mt procedres to roaclto acc- ts hl abrood.                                                          -
-  iboo   t oitrot procdu"   o toertf p pleIt wpl    Ite actostlag lestrutt_s.
-  Propre _mala tlomof cdstrol rocodures. raitralot lag tI%" accrd)lg to clarectarlstics
o@ tue _oapstet sptt_ to be Sotroduci. Cevlop 4u11 1      O$    c arraspodidag ceatre
procOduri.-
l-a.rnf laa sweltering 0t amowter Seed atccs t loag catro) proedures " set ou   the                                                                                                    ( 
_*el  dad lestruct leas *or aperrttlass salt a"i Cutrol _a*tuest of *tee 4c  t,ag
OlulalOs. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    *   Jf     o  



si  -  -               -  m- m  -.                  W  cc my TT
a    3    *    4        a   *         *    4    4    4    Mm
es  mmet p laterautig  system
-owtiSm wIth tainl*tlam at plans tar Ile          mowtarV acmtms accad is, fto  ate  e
registrotel. system S*ltelte I Oet_ w                                                             -
-  Og  and MteW I latarmtiea systm o*Il terolge  webag. poltlo by eatamal cwrraClse.
-  Osaip eed lastal# lato1utiam syetft co tiuctoatlea 1S _eay  OWes a_ aQeterW soocAmts.
-    cetom      s| to  __meiot of tMiaical ecovset  doptuamt nos
* satarastla Sa ee     o mit studies                                                            -              -
* OrtIh.e  far allocatiag acconts  eimaces to theamater belance shawl.                         -
*   1br&ig an imedisclpl la   town alto aalys t. pryamws  _d syst    *prtr.                     -
-  fVaioItto the opt" tie..4 umtary, latdrmtlom to am  cmutertle  sysita. Wt lecuilyl
wIth r*nect to ieaestles to apew  co aoter scam,. _d ltarastles as real
Monetary #soma.-
-   lWpiatattin a" nd .mltrla  of aipwterlsei mWery lIatrmatlionsystem to camj1tat                                                                                                          WI
wIft d4ticl4.l    and eVss  Is eccmilc rasewa  aSW cawU   re. ".
- Assesm i .4 legal *rm r Md buge Saw.
- _~~of  <  eiqpl trnwk _o1     too."I 
- bana am proedre for prOWper lgthe  Mgena budge and Central Book accoats.-
- Oneig ot t"  system tr catral I lag buet toulon taklng lato ac_nt. far projcted sod
monted  ueemdlt_e centrol of SeS oty d  xpendlteros, and taternal control a-
ospnIltures.
-   tsip o at a spttc 4ceuatlng systam tfr bugetounts. amOco
.ll1 perit tisty laear_ ti an  floe atm. and which cam be roconci Sd daily with to 
Centra acasunts.
acceuntiag and ceatrols. Oith bfth roletkting the coa4iguratoam ot amutar systems to be
latre  g'a    ''-  
-Implementatien taa meitarlg ot system tr budget prara.l., cntrol  t obdget exatica,.
d btdget  trle, rtSecttis ast coamteriad system.
ImIplametorton and moniteroIg ot canywrlard bdget ltooretlao system Sm conjuctloe with
qt#i.c4ls and edVlses Ca the aIlstretlIO  and cOter are.



-76                                Annex 4.3
a*L  31K 01 3(I
Dcm   RGRUI
1986                            1987
A  M    J    J    A    S  O    N    D   J    F  H  A    H   J
Design
o Final Design Work         *
e port                          *
e Review by Board                   *
* Final Plan                         *
Policies
* Monetary Program              *   *
° SOP Projections
monitoring                            *   *   *
o Program Adjustments
oReporting
Procedures
o Monetary Program                  *   *   *                    *   *  *
° BOP Projections                   *   *   *
Monitoring                                     *  *   *   *    *   *  *
Progam  Adjustments
Reporting & Sditing                   *   *   *  *   *   *
Manuals
o Policies                              *   *   *
o Procedures                                *   *  *   *  *
o Models                                        *  *   *   *    *   *  *  *
o Policies                              *   *   *  *
o Procedure                                 *   *  *  *
* Models                                        *  *   *  *
o Reports                               *   *   *  *
* Monitoring                                *   *  *   *



- 77-                            Amnex 4.4
CDin aNa   Of BOLNI
BACNK fINSPIII
1987- --
D    J   F   M    A    M    J   J   A    S   O   N   D
Enactment of Bank
Regulations
OProvisions              *
°Interest Accrual        *
"Loan Concentration      *
*Accounting Plan              *
"Audit Requirements           *
°Info. Requirements               *
Audit Work
Long Forms               *
*Audit Contracts                      *
"Audit Work
*Review of Audits                                      *   *
°BCB Reports
-definition of
content                                                 *
-staff training                             *   *
-report writing                                 *   *   *
'Info. to Public                                           *
Superintendency &
Deposit Insurance
Fund
"Draft Law
'Congress                                     *   *
'Approval                                         *
'Enactment
Internal Organization
3y-Laws                                   *   *       *
*Policies, Procedures,
Organization - SB and
BCB Fiscalization Dept.                  *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
°App. of New S.B.                                      *
ODesign, Implemaentation of
MIS                                      *
*Training



- 78 -                                          Annex 4.5
PPF, Phse I       PPF, BwPse  II       Plbl PF O PMTotal
(Jac)t 1986)  (M, 1986-m 198?}7) (Jul 1987-JOu 19B9) (Jul IJ1m 19B9)
.Lb     12E! c     !MLa1       l       lMWI        jeE L  FC!j&      )
*btet_f e (a nmtht)-                                *
1) Gentral Bank (S) Porgmidzatin
°  ugn - oeall Organizatia  FUtioas, ktion mPrWau   3.0   -              _         _          _         -        3.0       -
°xwrdeation of zp1aemtatlon, TA                          -      -                   7.0       _        12.0      -        19.0
LnstaLlation of New Orgidtimo  incluEd    Pwoedtes       -      -        2.3      10.0       25.0      13.0     27.3      23.0
ard Mtuwal8 for PersCmai, AdminiStration, nd (bntrol
of Infomation Flow, aid  JwelomtL of Tratzng Program
Sibtotal, Owerall PArganizatimn                                 3.0   -        2.3       17.0       25.0     25.0      30.3      42.0
2) Bankin  Insectim
Design - Urgadzation, Ftnctions, Stafl, PtWra              4.0   -        _          _          _        _         4.0       -
o 0,ordiatimi of B*plaetatcon                               _-             2.0        7.0       12.0      2.0      14.0       9.0
o ganw   law - B1dd%  inspection                            _               -         1.7        3.0       -        3.0       1.7
0 Statutes                                                  _      _       _          3.0        1.0      -         1.0       3.0
P olicies aid Operating Proces                              -      _       9.5        -          6.0      6.0      15.5       6.0
0 FI ia,al  aWlysts of lstrw:tixs                           -      _       2.0        9.7        6.0      6.0       8.0      15.7
°  inpaetation - Trasfer of  mtlims                         -      _        1.0       -          3.0       1.0      4.0       1.0
eItakdx.                                                 _  -                      -          2.0       -        2.0       -
e  lnforsation Systm                                                -                 -          4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0
oubtotal, !ni  tspec                                            4.(    -       14.5      21.4       37.0     19.0      55.S      40.4
3) tentral sffI&f
°    1is    - Orgadzatiai                                   1.5   -        _          3.0        _        _         1.5       3.0
0 coordination of boeaetatien                               _-              - _                  -        12.0      -        12.0
0 lmomic Sbxdies - Implsemefttai of Prwras to  qrove    -          _        2.0       -          -         -        2.0       -
System Capabilities for: malance of Payrts               _-              -         -          4.0       -        4.0       -
?bbtary Program                 -                -                    6.0      -        6.0       -
earch                           -                - _                12.0       -        12.0      -
StatIatics                      _       -                 -          6.0       -        6.0       -
inforatii Base                  _       -                 -          2.0      -         2.0       -
9    mey aShd BnE                                           _       -                 -          4.0      -         4.0       -
0 Forelgn  ade and 0hcwge                                   _  -           -          -          3.0      -         3.0      -
SAbtotal, Cantral   8rg                                         1.5   -        2.0        3.0       37.0      12.0     40.5      15.0
4) Accounting and intermal ctrols
° Pmepration, Tmplane1ttion - 9uhS tas for                  4.0            5.0        6.0        -        -         9.0       6.0
operatng tkits, internal Oztrols
0 oxnlterization of Systmes, OtroLs                         _-             -          9.2        5.0      5.0       5.0      14.2
0 titoring of Accountirg System                             -               - _                  3.0      2.0       3.0       2.0
0 amtrol of Balances                                        _       -                 -          2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0
Predue  for baonciling Orrent APccots                      _       -                 -          4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
° Systams tor ftietary inforation                           _       -                 -          5.0      3.0       5.0       3.0
0 liget System                                                     _                  -          -        12.0      -        12.0
0 Omimcaticns                                                            - _  _       _          3.0      9.0       3.0      9.0
&ibtotal, Accnting                                              4.0   -        5.0       15.2       22.0     37.0      31*0      52.0
5) Banco Agricola, Banco del Estado
° ifrsis and Design                                         4.0   -        _                              _         4.0       -
° Uetailed Morga&ization Plns, 'iousoptions                 -      -        3.7       3.0        -        -         3.7       3.0
e  oIp0  eation                                                -       -              -         21.0      18.0     21.0      18.0
Sjbtotal, BAB and BNEr                                          4.0   -        3.7        3.0       21.0      18.0     28.7      21.0
turAL, W1U   SYSE a=L= M       KtJUIS                          16.5   -       27.5       59.6      142.0    111.0    186.01/  170.61/
1/ .mersge total costs per emamuth of foreig  consultants estimated to be US58,00;
and for loca tvoatants, IJSS2,ooo. Ij  fiancing aln includes USS20U,0O0 for
oamp1ter Iurdiae and softwre.



- 79 -                           Annex 4.6
page 1 of 4
BANKING SYSTEM COMPONENT
DIAGNOSES
FINANCED UNDER PPF I
1.         Under the first Project Preparation Facility (PPF), major advances
were made in designing organizations, functions, and action programs for the
reorganization of the Central Bank.  The reports listed below are available
upon requesto
a) Central Bank Reorganization
-   Report analyzing Central Bank, and prescribing new organiza-
tion and functions (August-September, 1986).
-   Visit to discuss recommendations with President and Board of
Directors (October, 1986).
-   Consultants helped prepare organization and staffing plan, and
action program for reorganization of Central Bank, including
TA requirements (October, 1986).
b) Accounting and MIS
-   Preparation  of  report  with  recommendations  on  conceptual
design of new accounting and management information systems
(June-August, 1986).
-   Revision of proposed system by CB President and DMF Accounting
Advisor, with new action plan developed (September-October,
1986).
-   Initiation  of  new  system,  development  of  new  accounting
department, and calculation of TA requirements for PPF II and
full project (October, 1986).
c) Economics and Policy Department
-   Completion of report with diagnosis and recommendations on new
Econor I _,  and Policy Department,  including TA and training
requirements (August-September, 1986).
d) Banking Inspection Department
-   Completion  of  diagnosis  and  recommendations  on  functions,
organization, staffing, and artion program for new Banking
Inspection Department (September-October, 1986).
-   Development of Supreme Decree by Bolivian Government setting
out new rules of the game to ensure health of private banks
and to pave way for Central Bank reorganization (passage
expected soon).



-80 -                            Anmex 4.6
Page 2 of 4
Q) Development Banks
-   Completion of diagnosis of financial and operating position of
BANEST and BAB, of their present roles and branch-level
operations. Preliminary recommendations on closure of SANEST
and set up of new BAB (July-August, 1986).
-   Final diagnosis, recomendations and action plan for BANEST
closure and new BAB (September 1986).



- 81 -                                   nhAm   4.6
*                         Pagi ~~~~~~~~~3 o f 
amY so= or BOLriVT
PPP - cammsm
1.  Sergio de la Cuadra                        - Minister of Finance, Chile, 1982.
- President, Central Bank, Chile, 1981.
° overall CBB reorganization              - Vice President, Central Bank,4 Chile,
* structure, functions, staffing            1977-1980.
° design of action program
2.  Daniel Tapia                               - Chief Advisor to Board of Directors,
Banco Industrial y de Comercio Exterior
° overall C8B reorganization                (BICE) Chile.
° structure, functions, staffing          - Vice President, Central Bank,
* design of action program                  Chile, 1982-1983.
- Director, Financial Policy, Central Bank,
Chile.
3. Adolfo Diz                                  - President, Central Bank, Argentina,
1976-1981.
* Economic Policy Department              - Deputy member and member of the
o design of structure, functions,           Intergovernmental Group on International
staffing, action program                  Monetary Affairs (Group of 24)
1970-1973 and 1976-1981 respectively.
- Deputy Member of the Committee of Twenty
of the IMF (1970-1973).
- Executive Director IMF (1966-1968).
4. Jose Maria Jimenez de la Iglesia            - Banco de Espana, Spain.  Last 21 years in
in Bank supervision area, Sub-Director
- Baking Inspection -                       General 1982-1985.
implementation
5. Julio Acevedo                               - Director of Analysis and Research, Superin-
tendency of Banks and financial institutions,
o Banking Inspection - design of            Chile, 1982-1986.
structure, functions, staffing          - In charge of Global, Individual and Risk
Analysis of all financial institutions;
Norms and Regulations design and
implementation.
- In charge of interventions and later
re-privatization of some troubled banks.
6.  Francisco Gil Diaz                         - Deputy Director of Economic Research,
Banco de Mexico (Central Bank) Mexico,
o Economics Department                      December 1982 to date.
* short-term  advice on                   - General Director of Revenue Policy,
implementation                            Department of Finance and Public
Credit, 1978-1982.
- Director of Instituto Tecnologico
Autonotm de Mexico, 1972-1978.



82A    4.6
pR? -                                                 -R TI
gman _one.ibit                                      i
7. Alvaro Feller                              - Director of Financial Analysis and Researce.,
Superintendency of Banks and other financial
o Banking Inspection - design of           institutions, Chile, 1986 to date.
structure, functions, action           - In charge of Global, Individual and Risk
program                                  Analysis of all financial institutions; Norms
and Regulations design and lmplementation.
- Deputy Director of financial analysis,
Superintendency of Banks and other financial
institutions, Chile, 1983-1986.
- Senior Economist, Department of Research and
Policy Analysis, Central Bank, Chile
(1977-1983).
8. Richard Webb                               - President, Central Bank, Peru, 1980-1985.
- Economist, Development Economies Department,
3 Economic Policy Department               World Bank, 1975-1980.
program                                - Visiting Professor, Princeton University,
1971-1975.
9. Ramon Rosales                              - Deputy Director, Superintendency of Banks and
Finance Companies, Peru, 1981 to date.
oanking Inspection program             - In charge of financial supervision of Banks,
other financial institutes Including Savings
and Loans.
- Intendente General de Mutuales, Peru,
1976-1981.
- Intendente of State-owned Banks, Peru,
1974-1976.
10. Jose Valderrama                           - Director, Economic Research, Central Bank,
Peru, 1984-1986.
o Banking Inspection program             - Economic Advisor to the Minister and General
Director of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Economy and Finance,1982-1983.
- Chief, Monetary Sector and Global Analysis
Department Central Bank, Peru, 1981-1982.
11. Beatriz Casal                             - Chief, Accounting Department and other related
activities, Central Bank, Uruguay, 1970
o Strengthening of accounting -            to date,
CBB



-83-                             AnzLe  5.1
PUBLIC FINANCIAL             OPERA0O
Mosthly . C~u.a1tive
Second Quarter                      1,800  1/                  1,800
Third Quarter                         700                      2,500
Fourth Quarter                        900                      3,400
mS
First Quarter                       1,000                      4,400
Second Quarter                      1,200                      5,600
Third Quarter                       1,300                      6,900
Fourth Quarter                      1,300                      8,200
O90
First Quarter                       1,300                      9,500
Second Quarter                      1,200                     10,700
Third Quarter                         500                     11,200
Fourth Quarter                        300                     11,500
1/ Includes reimburseaent of Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance
for up to US$1.5 million,



- 84 -                               Ar 5.2
si=FDSM _WGD  can
9~S a= mm
mmD/
E2gJ     Local   TO*.       Mt     mmAI   13W    (UT/D(3
LSUX
°suldtants                   5,100      450   5,550   5,550        -      -        -
0Senior Professiols -            -      600      600     390    210       -        -
Execitive Secretariat
*Odtwr Sr. Ptofessionals         -      640      640       -    510       -      130
Salaries, Incra t                -    4,340   4,340        -    790       -   3,550
rCAre Cttparts
Equipaemt, Materials           810      200   1,00       810    100       -      100
OTraining, Facilities           -    1,280   1,280         -    890       -      390
"Project Preparation,          610      590   1,200      610    560       -       30
Initiations
Subtotal, WM                 6,520    8,100  14,620   7,360  3,060        -   4,2001/
U. Tm
°nsaatants                   1,860      190   2,050      710       -   1,340       -
o°e tDcal Teau-                 -       540      540     540       -      -        -
Fixed Term
"Other Cbunterparts             -      1,800   1,800       -       -      -    1,8003/
"Equipaent, Materials           60        -       60       -       -     60        -
Project Prepatiori/            255      110      365     365              -
iAdministrative - UNDP/IDB     200        -      200       -       -    200
Subtotal., Tax               2,375    2,640   5,015    1,615       -  1,600   1,801)
-                       m _  _m   
m. ~
Consultants                 1,130      220   1,350    1,350       -      -        -
core  o                         -    2,400   2,400         -       -      -   2,4003/
Equipxmet, Maerials           200         -     200      2w00
0Project Preparation           385      140      525     525       -      -        -
Subtotal, Banking System     1,715    2,760   4,475   2,075               -   2,400
IV. ^Atx     tiwe  Seim           450         -     450      450      -       -       -
ItML                             11,120   13,450  24,560   11,500  3,060  1,b0u   8,400
1/ Oly us$320,000 equivalent of (bvermit cownterpart fundig of SAF0 is incremwal. Of
WB's US$4,200 contribxtion, US$3,880 is in no-nr tl  core staff salaries and
facilities.
2/ Excludes WBAWP finwicirg of REase I (Anex 3.3), IK-financed project preparation includes
USS215,00) for oasultants on overalU organization of tac administrRtion and property tax, and
lS$150,000 for core fixed cotract personel of the Ministry of Ta1tln.
3/ All  Gvwmmt contributions for the tax administration and bnldig syst  anpnet are for
nowiCrmsltaJ salary ecpditures.



- 85 -                             Annez 5.3
Project Element                                 Mrocurint Iethod
International   Consultant
Shopping      G idelines   Other    Total Cost
(UJS$ 000)
Technical Assistance                       -              8,950          -        8,950*
(7,610)                (7,610)
Fixed Contract Personnel                   -              1,780          -        1,780*
(930)                  (930)
Equipment, Materials                       -                 -        1,280       1,280*
(1,010)    (1,010)
Civil Works, Training Stipends             -                 -        1,280       1,280*
(0)        (0)
Salaries                                   -                 -        8,540      8,540*
(0)        (0)
Project Preparation                        -              2,090          -       2,090*
(1,500)                (1,500)
Administrative Services                    -                 -          650         650*
(450)      (450)
-        ~~12,820     11,750     24,570
Total                                              (10,040)    (1,460)   (11,500)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
* Includes amounts for items financed by USAID, IDB and UNDP, procured
under their respective procedures.
MA, Db
Category                                Amumt
(US$ 000)
Technical Assistance                                 7,610
Fixed Contract Personnel                               930
Equipment, Materials                                 1,010
Project Preparation                                  1,500
Administrative Services                                450
Estimated IDA Disbursemets:                     EDA Fiscal Years
1988               1989               1990
(iJSS 000)
Annual                            3,4U0              4,800              3,300
Cumulative                        3,400              8,200             11,500



6                                           -       64                                                    65
B O L VI A
Momn Roods                  Relief (meters)         Climotic Zones
- _/Rr  /    /                          Secondory Roods              6000 AND ABOVE            COLD (4500 m And VboveE
-                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~     ~~~~~~5000- 6000  COD(50   rdave
P-'                                   -i---.-- fkRotilroods                4000 - 5000              CO  30    0
ERALTA              - ~~~~Rivers                   3000 -4000CO.(30-40m
2000 - 3000              TEMPERATE
\ P                                 ~                 ^             bJ tp X r _Deportment Boundories   t ooo - 2000     SUB-TROPICAL
\ -.} :    - -International B0undaries  0 - 1000      TROPICAL
\~~,  -~~~   (     /    ~ ~ ~ ~                ,~~       B RAZIL
\~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     2M 4   .C'0
'--t A                             ;cFa           >          :u                
14'                                                                                                                         '   /  - r-   '  <  t' ¢5;* \8<0 BOLI/ A AL
14-                                                  Scc -An.                                                                                 O "ru      s a
4L*II     \.-!ARAGUAY i.*.



(LA PA7Z    ~                         ~ ~                                                                                              EU~Tn
%                                                 ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Oeu  osamtoc,vz
-.f RAGUAY .
CHI
I  PARAGUAY                ~         AGENIN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
r U                                                                                                                               1                                     -IO-;
T 'A    C   R  u  z~~~~~~~~-~OUI
JO"~ 
2?                                                                                                         22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
ma map had bean pWa'ad hi' the                                                   00           200          300~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERT
sesffesck,sn'aiy 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                                        ill-~~~RE
~~~~   ,aadars ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           KILOMET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~1
Th  omeiosueadte
bets~~es show an doPARAmUA
Wwfd Bank and its afitAiet.& ny ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- BLII
72'~ ~ ~~~~~~~'C
'WI I =i  1-t~~I                                                                                                                        6



