Documenl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportSo. 15159
PKOJECT COM.PLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATTON I
iCREDIT 1809-BO)
DECEMBF.R 11, \995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin america and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution aod may be used by recipients ody in tbe performance of
their official duties. Its conteots may not otherwise be disclosed withoul World Bank authonzation.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit: Boliviano:($B)
$84.77 = 1 US$ (as of 06/09/95)
Fiscal Year
January I to December 31
Abbreviations
AGS:         Accountant General of the State
BAB:         Banco Agricola de Bolivia (Agricultural Bank of Bolivia)
BANEST:    Banco del Estado (State Bank)
BCB:         Banco Central de Bolivia (Central Bank of Bolivia)
CGR:         Contraloria General de la Rephblica
(Controller General of the Republic)
CONSAFCO:  Council for SAFCO
DGRI:        Direcci6n General de la Renta Intema (Internal Revenue
Department )
EMSO:        Economic Management Strengthening Operation
FSAC:        Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GOB:         Government of Bolivia
IDA:         International Development Agency
IDB:         Interamerican Development Bank
ILACO:       Implantaci6n de la Ley de Administraci6n y Control
(Implementation of the Law of Administration and
Control)
IMF:         International Monetary Fund
IRD:         Internal Revenue Department
NEP:         New Economic Program
NFPS:        Non-Financial Public Sector
PCR:         Project Completion Report
PIU:         Project Implementation Unit
SAFCO:       Sistema de Administraci6n Fmianciera y Control
(Financial Administration and Control System)
SAR:         Staff Appraisal Report
SOEC:        Sistema de Informaci6n sobre Operaci6nes Efectivas de
Caja (Cash Operations Information System)
UNDP:        United Nations Development Program
USAID:       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 11, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Bolivia - Public Financial Management
Operation I (Credit 1809-BO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bolivia Public Financial Management
Operation I (PFMO I) (Credit 1809-BO, approved in FY87), prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office, with an excellent Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The main objectives of this SDR 11.5 million technical assistance project were to: (a) improve financial
administration and control of public sector ministries, enterprises, and agencies; (b) facilitate implementation of
tax reforms and strengthen tax administration; and (c) reorganize the Central Bank of Bolivia and the state-owned
development banks. The overriding goal was to rehabilitate the public sector's capacity to control budgeting and
expenditure, increase taxation, and improve financial intermediation as part of a wide-ranging program of
economic stabilization and adjustment implemented during the latter half of the 1980s and early 1990s.
The PCR notes that budgetary controls have been tightened significantly since PFMO I was approved,
the share of tax revenues has increased several-fold, and the Central Bank has restructured its operations to focus
on the conduct of monetary and exchange rate policy, jettisoning its involvement in promotional credit. Although
PFMO I disbursed well ahead of schedule, its efficacy was blunted by delays in the passage of enabling legislation
and in the establishment of key institutions, by inadequate incentives for skilled public servants leading to rapid
turnover and the consequent loss of training benefits to the public sector, and by a waning of Governmental
commitment to project objectives during its final stages. In a number of instances, the quality of the information
generated by the new systems remains deficient and the new norms and procedures have not been widely adopted
within the public sector. Credit for the successful reforms must be shared with several other Bank and non-Bank
operations, including support from the IMF, IDB, USAID, and the UNDP.
Based on the findings of the PCR, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, institutional
development impact as modest, and sustainability as uncertain. Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, and
Borrower implementation and compliance with covenants as satisfactory.
The quality of the PCR is strong in all areas, except in measuring the project's impact. For example,
although the SAR provided an admirable listing of specific project outputs expected, with one exception, these are
not discussed in the PCR.
A follow-up operation (PFMO II, Credit 2279-BO, approved in FY91) is currently underway. An
audit of both operations may be undertaken upon its closing.
Attachment                                                         "
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents rmy
not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION - I
CREDIT: 1809-BO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                                          iii
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                              1
1.     Project Identity                                                                       1
2.     Background                                                                             1
3.     Project Objectives and Description                                                     I
4.     Project Design and Organization                                                       2
5.     Project Implementation                                                                 3
6.     Project Results                                                                       3
7.     Project Sustainability                                                                6
8.     Bank Performance                                                                      7
9.     Borrower Performance                                                                   8
10.    Project Relationship                                                                  8
11.    Consulting Services                                                                   8
12.    Project Documentation                                                                 8
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                         9
1.     Component A: Financial Administration and Control (SAFCO)                             9
2.     Component B: Tax Administration                                                      13
3.     Component C: Banking System Reform                                                   16
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                        19
1.     Table I       Related Bank Loans/Credits                                             19
2.     Table 2       Project Timetable                                                      20
3.     Table 3       Credit Disbursements                                                   20
4.     Table 4       Project Implementation                                                 21
5.     Table 5       Project Costs                                                          23
6.     Table 6       Project Financing                                                      23
7.     Table 7       Project Results                                                        24
8.     Table 8       Studies Included in Project                                            26
9.     Table 9       Status of Legal Covenants                                              27
10.    Table 10       Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                    28
II.    Table I I      Use of Bank Resources: Missions                                        28
This reporl was prepared by Messrs /Mne. lit B.S. Gill (Task Manager, LA3PS); John Pollner (LA3PS) and Carmen Machicado (Consultant).
I Mlessrs lKrishn.a Challa. Robern Crown and Yoshjaki Abe were, respectively, the managing Division Chicef, Project Adviser and Departmnt Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION -I
CREDIT: 1809-BO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.           This project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the performance of the Bolivia: Public
Financial Management Operation - I (PFMO-I) for which Credit 1809-BO in the amount of SDR 9.0
million (US$ 11.5 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on May 28, 1987. The credit became
effective on December 15, 1987. Most of the project activities were completed in 1991. However, the
closing date of the credit was extended, first to June 30, 1993 and then to June 30, 1994, to enable the
engagement of consultants in key positions in the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Controller
General of the Republic, so as to facilitate the implementation of the Second Public Financial Management
Project (PFMO-II). The project was closed on June 30, 1994 with total disbursements of SDR 8.998
million.
2.            Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Public Sector Modernization and Private
Sector Development Division, Country Department III, Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LA3PS).
These Parts were sent to Government of Bolivia (GOB) for their review and comments. Part II has been
prepared by GOB. The Government used local funds, amounting to about US$ 3.2 million, generated from
the USAID Economic Support Fund, to finance incremental local costs related to the Financial
Administration and Control component of the project. The IDB/IUNDP provided parallel financing of US$
1.47 million for the Tax Administration component. The IMF provided technical assistance in design and
supervision of the Tax Administration and Banking System components. The draft PCR, including Part II
was also sent to USAID/IDB/IUNDP/IMF for their comments.
3.           The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Memorandum of the
President, dated Mav 6,1987; the Development Credit Agreement, dated July 31, 1987; supervision
reports; internal IDA memoranda; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; the Final Report, dated
December 1990, regarding the Financial Administration and Control component produced by the concerned
consultants; the Final Report regarding the Tax Administration component produced by IDBIUNDP; and
interviews conducted by the IDA Mission to Bolivia in June 1994.






iii
BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION -I
CREDIT: 1809-BO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.           In August 1985, when a new Government took office, the economy of Bolivia was in a
chaotic state. Inflation in the preceding twelve months exceeded 24,000%; the official exchange rate was
grossly overvalued; accumulated arrears of public external debt had reached US$1 billion (over 20% of
GDP); from 1980 to 1984, GDP fell by 16% and imports, exports and investment also experienced a
steady decline; on account of high inflation and weak tax administration, central tax and customs revenues
fell to about 3% of GDP in 1984 and 1985. The public sector operated without budgets from 1983 to 1985
and spending was uncontrolled. The new government effectively implemented a bold macro-economic
reform program. At the same time, it undertook to revamp public financial management through the
Public Financial Management Operation - I (PFMO-I).
Project Objectives and Description
2.           The objectives of the project were to (a) improve financial administration and control of
ministries and public entities; (b) enable the implementation of tax reforms and improve tax administration;
and (c) improve the national banking system, strengthen the Central Bank and restructure the main
development banks. The Financial Administration and Control component included the establishment of a
high level Council (CONSAFCO) and its Executive Secretariat for the overall management of the financial
administration and control system (SAFCO); and the design, development and implementation of effective
systems for operational programmlling, budgeting, budget execution, cash and debt management,
accounting, internal control, financial reporting and auditing. An important activity of this component was
the "Emergency Program" that sought to provide reliable budgetary and cash flow data pertaining to the
major non-financial public entities to the Central Government. The Tax Administration component sought
to facilitate the implementation of tax reforms enacted in 1986 through organizational strengthening of the
Internal Revenue Department and establishment of systems for taxpayer registration, tax collection,
monitoring and control of non-compliance, selection of cases for audit, and preparation of tax statistics.
The Banking System Reform component aimed to improve the organization, systems and capabilities of the
Central Bank, especially in banking inspection, accounting and internal controls, economic research, policy,
operational procedures and debt monitoring; and to restructure and strengthen two major development
banks - Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) and Banco del Estado (BANEST).
Project Design and Organization
3.           The project covered a wide spectrum of activities that were developed after detailed
diagnosis of institutional constraints.  It was designed to enhance accountability, transparency and
efficiency; separate incompatible functions; and integrate connected activities. Although the project
involved a number of government entities and international donors, suitable coordinating mechanisms were
created to ensure smooth implementation.
Project Implementation
4.            On the whole, project implementation was satisfactory. Some bottlenecks were, however,
encountered. In the Financial Administration and Control component, delays were experienced in



iv
appointmenet of consultants, passage of the SAFCO law and establishment of the office of the Accountant
General. In the Tax Administration component there were delays in creating a separate Ministry of Tax
Collections. In the Banking System Reform component, the main deficiency was the inability to carry out
the reorganization of the two development banks due to a lack of consensus on the restructuring plan.
Project Results
5.            Under the Financial Administration and Control component, the Emergency Program
greatly enhanced the treasury's ability to manage public finances by providing valuable income, expenditure
and cash flow data. The program covered almost 95% of resource flows in the non-financial public sector,
by the end of the project. The SAFCO law created a modem normative framework for effective public
financial management . The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Office of the Controller General of the
Republic (CGR) were re-organized and the office of the Accountant General was created. Norms and
procedures were established for budgeting, budget execution, public credit, accounting, internal control and
auditing. Four finanicial managemenit computer systems were commissioned. Finally, about 3000 officials
were trained in financial managemenit. In Tax Administration, the Internal Revenue Department was
reorganized: divisions to monitor large taxpayers were created; tax collections were transferred to
commercial banks; and systems for taxpayer registration. control of delinquents and statistical reporting
were developed. Domestic tax collections increased from about 1% of GDP in 1984 to 7.8% in 1992.
Under the Banking ,yslem Reform componient, the Central Bank was reorganized, its core divisions were
strengthened and accounting systems were computerized. An autonomous Superintendency of Banks was
created. Technlical assistance was provided for the supervision of audits of commercial banks.
Sustainability
6.            The conceptual foundation of the reforms supported by the project is strong and is backed
by legislative and administrative authority. Therefore, the formal structure created by reforms appears to
be sustainable. The project's impact on day to day financial management ma' be adversely affected by
dimiiinished govermiuent commitment to the principles underlying the project: lax enforcement of the relevant
laws and regulations: and deterioration in staff skills due to attrition, transfers and the inability to recruit
qualified new staff due to low salaries. Some slackening of high level involvement in the successor project,
PFMO-II, was observed in the recent past, possibly due to other pressing priorities. Remedial measures
have since been instituted. The successful implementation of PFMO- II, which seeks to improve upon the
systems developed by PFMO-I and extend these to other public sector entities, is the key to the
sustainabilitv of the latter's achieveiimenits.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.            The project was successful in achieving most of its objectives. Its success was the result
of thorough1 preparation: strong political support by the government; effective implementation and
supervision-: and positive project relationships. The major lessons learnt may be summarized thus: (a)
Complex institutionl building projects require long-term govemment commitment at the highest level, at
least until the refomis are fimnly rooted. (b) When institutional changes depend on changes in the legal
framework. it wvould be preferable to enact the requisite legislation before the project starts. Delays, such
as those observed in the passage of the SAFCO law, create ambiguity and confusion amongst the agencies
and officials likely to be affected by the legal changes. This has an adverse impact on project
implementationi. (c) Staff turnover adve.sely affects the sustainability of reforms. Suitable human
resource policies should, therefore, be devised to ensure staff continuity in important positions, and the
ability to attract and retain qualified staff. (d) Given the rapid rate of obsolescence of computer
technology, it is necessary to devise sustainable financing arrangements for the regular upgrading of
systems developed under a project in the post-project period. (e) In attempting tax administration reform, it
would be preferable to reform both tax and customs departments simultaneously, especially when the latter
collects VAT oii imports.



BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION I
CREDIT: 1809-BO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART - I            PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
1.           Project Name:         Public Financial Management Operation-I (PFMO-I)
Credit Number        1809-BO
RVP Ullit:           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Countrv:             Bolivia
Sector:              Public Sector Management
Sub-Sector:          Public Financial Management
Backaround
2.           In August 1985, when a new Govenmment took office, the economy of Bolivia was in a
chaotic state. Inflationi in the preceding twelve months exceeded 24.000%; the official exchange rate was
grossly overvalued: accuLmlulated arrears of public external debt had reached US$1 billion (over 20% of
GDP): from 1980 to 1984. GDP fell by 16% and imports, exports and investment also experienced a
steady decline; on accoullt of highi inflationi and weak tax administration, central tax and customs revenues
fell to about 3% of GDP in 1984 and 1985. The public sector operated without budgets from 1983 to 1985
and spending was unlcontrolled.
3.            The new government effectively implemented a bold economic refonn program. the New
Economic Policy (NEP), to conitrol inflation, cut fiscal deficit, restore external balances, improve the
efficiency of a reduced public sector and create conditions for private sector growth. Further, it undertook
to revamp public finanicial managemiienit.
4.           IDA had helped GOB initiate major changes in its fiscal and financial systems as early as
1984 when it assisted in the diagniosis of weaknesses in public accounting and auditing. In order to support
the NEP, IDA collaborated with the Controller General of the Republic (CGR) in designing a program to
improve financial m1anlagement. This developed into the present project which addressed institutional
constraints in three important areas: public financial management: tax administration: and banking.
Proiect Obiectives and Description.
5.            The objectives of the project were to (a) improve financial administration and control of
ministries and public entities; (b) enable the implementation of tax reforms and improve tax administration;
and (c) improve the nationial banking system, strengthen the Central Bank and restructure the main
development banks.
6.            Accordingly'. the project consisted of three components. The Financial Administration
and Control (hereafter also referred to as SAFCO) component, which accounted for 57% of total project
costs, included the establishment of a high level Council (CONSAFCO) and its Executive Secretariat for
the overall management of the financial administration and control system (SAFCO); and the design.
development and implementation of effective systems for operational programming, budgeting. budget
execution, cash and debt management, accounting, internal control, financial reporting and auditing. An
important activity of this component was the so called "Emergency Program" that sought to address the



2
problems caused by poor financial management and reporting systems in the core ministries and state
enterprises by providing a continuous stream of reliable budgetary and cash flow data pertaining to the
major non-financial public entities to the Central Government.  In addition to IDA financing. the
government used local funds generated from the USAID Economic Support Fund to finance incremental
local costs to the extent of about US$3.2 million.
7.            The Tax Administration component, involving 19% of total project costs, supplemented
assistance being provided by the IDB/UNDP. It financed two modules of Phase I of tax administration
reform begun in September 1986 and about 40% of Phase II. This component sought to facilitate the
implementation of tax reforms enacted in 1986 through organizational strengthening of the Internal
Revenue Department (IRD) and establishment of systems for taxpayer registration, tax collection,
monitoring and control of non-compliance, selection of cases for audit, and preparation of tax statistics.
The IDB/UNDP provided parallel financing of US$1.47 million for consultants for tax collection and
compliance monitoring systems.
8.            The Banking Syslem Refbrm component, accounting for 16% of total project costs, aimed
to improve the organiization. systems and capabilities of the Central Bank, especially in banking inspection,
accounting and intemnal controls, economic researclh, policy, operational procedures and debt monitoring;
and to restructure and strengtheni two major development banks - Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) and
Banco del Estado (BANEST). Project activities were complimentary to assistance provided by the USAID
for external audits of commercial banks and improvement in project evaluation and supernision capabilities
of commercial banks; and by the IDB for restructuring the Development Credit Department of the Central
Bank.
9.            Project preparation and adminiistration accounted for 8% of total project costs.
Project Desi2n and Or2anization
10.          The project covered a wide spectrum of technical activities, ranging from  resource
mobilization, expenditure management, accounting and auditing to Central Bank operations, supervision of
commercial banks and development banking. These activities were designed after a detailed diagnosis of
institutional problems. The remedies proposed were based on sound concepts such as accountability,
transparency, efficiency, separation of incompatible functions and integration of interconnected activities.
Although, some of the concepts were innovative and represented radical departures from past practice, it
appears that adequate consensus was built regarding their rationale and usefulness. The project was a very
timely intervention coming as it did at a time of acute fiscal and financial distress. It struck a balance
between the immediate objective of bringing order to the prevailing chaos in public financial management
and the long-term need for sustainable institutional development in this area.
11.          The project involved four major agencies: the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the CGR, the
Ministry of Tax Collections and the Central Bank. A large number of Divisions and Departments in each
of these entities were affected. Also, project inputs and outputs needed to be coordinated with other
international agencies, viz. the USAID, the IDB, the UNDP and the IMF who were also assisting the
Government in improving financial management. The project design aptly dealt with this complex
situation. Each component was designed as an independent sub-project. For the SAFCO component. a
high level Council for SAFCO (CONSAFCO), consisting of Ministers of Finance, Planning and Tax
Collect ions anid the CGR, was established and competent persons were appointed as Executive Secretary,
CONSAFCO, and Teclnical Director. The tax administration and banking components were made the
responsibility of the Ministrv of Tax Collections and the Central Bank, respectively. This project structure
ensured inter-agency coordination, where it was needed, while allowing independent action in areas that lay
exclusively within the domain of one agencv. The nature and extent of the contribution of other donors was
also clearly defined. To facilitate project management, UNDP/OPS was engaged to provide administrative
support. Specific activities pertaining to each component were delineated at considerable length, along with



3
the nature of inputs required, their estimated duration, timing and cost. Annual action plans and quarterly
progress reports were prescribed to control and monitor project implementation. Realizing the complexity
of the project, provision was made for extensive supervision in association with specialists. In retrospect,
the project appears to have been well designed and organized.
Proiect Implementation
12.          On the whole, project implementation was satisfactory. Disbursements were faster than
expected. By 12/31/91, 94% of the credit had been disbursed and most of the project activities had been
completed. The closing date of 06/30/92 was extended first to 06/30/93 and then to 06/30/94 to enable the
engagement of consultants in key positions in the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Controller
General of the Republic, so as to facilitate the implementation of the Second Public Financial Management
Project (PFMO-II). Legal Covenants were complied with, although there were delays in preparation of
annual action plans and audits. No major problems in procurement or availability of parallel financing
from other donors were encountered. Thle main variances in project implementation are indicated below.
13.          For the Financial Administration and Control component startup activities were affected
by delays in appointment of the project management team and in contracting consultants. The passage of
the crucial Government Administration and Control Act (hereafter also referred to as the SAFCO Law)
was delayed for almost two years. This affected systems development to some extent since both the old
laws and regulations as well as the new law had to be taken into account. Also, Government officials at the
operational levels could not become fully committed to the philosophy of the new law until it was passed.
The establishment of the Accounting Office also experienced delays. The implementation of the auditing
sub-component lagged behind others because, in the absence of adequate accounting systems, there was not
much to audit. Notwithstanding these difficulties, on the whole, the implementation of the component was
satisfactory.
14.          In the Tax Administration component all the planned activities were completed
successfully. However, there was a significant delay in deciding the new institutional framework for tax
administration. Although, the Tax Reform Act was passed in May 1986, a separate Ministry of Tax
Collections was created only in January 1987. This affected the pace of implementation of Phase I
activities. Some of the other problems experienced during implementation were: less than expected
efficiency of commercial banks in handling collections; staffing constraints in the Internal Revenue
Department (IRD), primarily due to low salaries, that affected processing of information received from the
banks and monitoring of large taxpayers, shortfalls in collection of VAT on imports due to continuing
inefficiencies in the Customs tax collection system which was not covered by the project (customs
administration reform was, subsequently, undertaken under the Economic Management Strengthening
Operation - EMSO, Credit 1977-BO).
15.          Most of the planned activities in the Banking System  Reform  component were
accomplished. However, the reorganization of the two development banks, BAB and BANEST, could not
be carried out because of the lack of a consensus in this regard.  The presentation of acceptable
restructuring plans for the two banks was made a condition for the release of the second tranche of the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), Credit 1925-BO. Weaknesses in the organization and
management of the Central Bank; inadequate inter-departmental coordination; and high staff tumover
affected the institutionalization of new norms and procedures as well as the development of new systems.
Proiect Results
FinancialAdministration and Control
16.          The Emergency Program was highly successful. Against the original target of 35 entities,
it was extended to more than 73 entities, covering almost 95% of resource flows in the Bolivian non-



4
financial public sector. The consolidated reports produced by the Program, on the income, expenditure and
cash flow of these entities, became an important tool for managing the Treasury's resources and controlling
public expenditures. Most entities started producing the data on their own and using it for their internal
financial management as well. The Emergency Program, however, still continues and there is a need to
integrate its activities into the mainstream functions of the entities.
17.          The passage of the SAFCO Law, which set the normative framework for country-wide
public financial management, in July 1990, was an important milestone. Replacing antiquated and
conflicting rules and regulations that had accumulated over time, the law provided a coherent, modern
framework for achieving accountability, transparency and efficiency in the management of public
resources. The law established administrative systems for Planning and Capital Investment; Operations
Programming; Budgeting; Treasury and Public Credit; Accounting; Internal Control and Auditing;
Administrative Organizationi; and Acquisition, Management and Disposal of Goods and Service. The role
and responsibilities of different govenmnent agencies, viz. the MOF, the Ministry of Planning and
Coordination, the Central Bank, the Banking Superintendency and the CGR, for development and operation
of these systems were clearly defined. Major improvements included the elimination of pre-control of
budget execution by the CGR; and the transfer of the judicial functions of CGR to the judiciary, thus
ending the former's dual role as prosecutor and judge. The Law, unequivocally, made every public servant
accountable for not only achieving the objectives for which public resources were entrusted to him/her, but
also for the manner and results of the usage of the resources. Administrative, executive, civil and criminal
liabilities were established for official misconduct and the CGR was given extensive powers to initiate
actions against erring public servants.
18.          Wide-ranging project activities were completed to facilitate the implementation of the
SAFCO Law. The MOF and the office of the CGR were reorganized in accordance with the functions
assigned to them by the law. Budget execution was transferred from the Budget Office to the Treasury.
The Office of Accountanit General of the State (AGS) was created and integrated accounting was
established in the central administration. Detailed manuals of norms and procedures for preparation,
modification and execution of the budget; administration of public credit; accounting; internal control; and
auditing were prepared. Four computer systems were commissioned viz. Cash Operations Information
System (SOEC), under the Emergency Program; system for budget formulation; integrated financial
information system (SIIF) for budget execution and accounting; and system for administration and control
of payroll. Training courses, of varying intensity, were organized for more than 3,000 GOB officials.
These courses covered  Principles of SAFCO. Operations Programming, Budgeting, Financial
Administration, Accounting, Financial Reporting. Government Auditing and Electronic Data Processing.
Finally, the project helped in refurbishing and equipping the offices of the CGR, the AGS and the
Emergency Program as well as the training school.
19.          The outcomes of these activities were positive.  The reliability and timeliness of
infonnation generated by the Fmergency Program gave the government a better picture of the financial
situation in the public sector, thereby enabling it to manage public finances within the parameters of the
structural adjustment program. Freeing the Budget Office from the responsibility of administering budget
execution allowed it to concentrate on budget formulation and evaluation. This facilitated the integration of
budgetary policy with macro-economic and public investment policies. Program-based budgeting was
introduced to create a clearer link between objectives and expenditures.  The assumption of the
responsibility for budget execution by the Treasury upgraded its role from that of a cashier to that of the
manager of public resources. The SIIF reduced discretion in expenditure management. This increased
transparency and diminished opportunities for corruption. The streamlining of procedures and elimination
of prior control by the CGR sharply increased the efficiency of the disbursement process. In a major
advance over the past, the project enabled the timely preparation of financial statements of the Government.
Norms of internal control and government auditing contributed towards improving the control environment
in the public sector.



5
20.           The SAFCO component established a strong foundation for sound public financial
management in Bolivia. At the time of completion of its major activities, however, much still remained to
be done. In the institutions covered by the project, the reforms needed to be deepened. Detailed regulations
were still to be developed for operations programming, personnel management, procurement and
administrative organization etc.. The information systems needed to be further refined so as to improve
their capability and usefulness. These also needed to be integrated with each other and converted to an
open architecture. Also, the quality of infonmation generated by the systems needed to be improved and the
error rate reduced, in order to build user confidence. Additional systems needed to be developed for budget
evaluation, treasury, public credit and auditing. Further, the norms, procedures and systems had to be
disseminated to the other public entities at the national and local levels. The CGR still needed to develop a
capacity for operational audits. Although, the project carried out extensive training activities, it was able
to reach less that 5% of potential trainees. Its efforts in this regard needed to be extensively supplemented.
21.           A follow up operation, the Second Public Financial Management Operation (PFMO-II),
Credit 2279-BO, was undertaken to deal with the continuing constraints mentioned above. This project,
involving an IDA credit of SDR 8.5 million, is currently being implemented.
Tax Administration
22.           This component contributed towards significant improvements in tax administration in
Bolivia. The 1986 Tax Refonn Law introduced a simple tax system based on value added and wealth
taxes instead of income taxes. As already mentioned, a separate Ministry of Tax Collections was created
for a limited period to focus attention on improvement of domestic tax collections, which had fallen to
about 1% of GDP in 1984. and on the reform of tax administration (the Ministry was merged with the
Ministry of Finance in September 1988). The IRD was restructured. Large Taxpayer Divisions were
created in La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz to closely monitor compliance by large taxpayers, who
contributed about 80% of the tax revenues. A taxpayer registration system was developed and taxpayers
liable to be registered were assigned unique registration numbers.  The task of tax collection was
transferred to commercial banks and related svstems for control of monthly collections, bank reconciliation,
adjustments, installments payments etc. were developed. Computer systems for control of non-filing of
returns and non-payment of taxes; selection and assignment of cases for tax audit; and preparation of
statistical reports for maniagement were developed and implemented. Various manuals and forms were
prepared to support the new systems. Regulations to give effect to the Tax Reform Act of 1986; strengthen
sanctions against non-compliance; and implement Rural Property Tax were formulated. Training in the
operation of the new systems was provided. Finally, a publicity campaign was conducted using different
media to educate taxpayers regarding their obligations under the new legal and administrative
arrangements. These initiatives contributed towards the increase in domestic tax collections to 7.8% of
GDP in 1992.
23.           The project dealt with the initial stages of tax administration reform. It contributed to
creating a good base for further improvements in tax administration effectiveness.  The Economic
Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO) continued IDA assistance, in conjunction with the
IDB/UNDP, for consolidation of the reforms; their extension to regional tax offices and the Customs
Department; and publicity to enhance taxpayer awareness. As a result of PFMO-I and succeeding projects.
the control of routine tax administration operations, based on obligations admitted by the taxpayers,
appears to have improved significantly. However, taxpayer auditing and enforcement of tax laws against
tax evaders continues to be weak. Also, in some of the regional offices, corruption is understood to be
high. These issues need to be addressed by on-going and future reforms.
Banking System Reform
24.           The SAFCO Law established the Central Bank as the only monetary authority in the
country, independent of the MOF. At the same time, commercial and development banking activities were



6
eliminated from its portfolio. The Central Bank was reorganized to emphasize the importance of key
central banking functions such as economic research and analysis, balance of payments and external debt
operations. Personnel were drastically reduced, a small number of additional qualified professionals were
recruited and staff salaries were significantly increased. Substantial technical assistance was provided to
the Economic Studies and Research Department, Financial Systems Department and the External Debt
Division for defining their respective functions and organizational structure; preparing technical manuals;
improving the quality of macro-economic, financial and external debt statistics; building analytical models
and information systems. and training staff. The accounting systems for monetarv transactions, foreign
exchange, credit, foreign trade, public enterprises and treasury transactions were computerized.  To
strengthen the monitoring of commercial banks, a Superintendency of Banks was created in November
1987. The Superintendency was endowed with considerable autonomy, a streamlined organizational
structure and well qualified personnel. Manuals for evaluation of accounts of banks; banking inspection;
and financial analysis wvere produced. Technical assistance was provided for supervision of audits of
commercial banks conducted by independent auditors.  Legislation defining the respective roles and
functions of BAB and BANEST was passed.
25.           The measures indicated above improved the Central Bank's capacity to perfonr its core
operations and significantlv strengthenied oversight over commercial banks. However, like the reforms
introduced through the other componenits of the project, these were, essentiallv, first steps that needed
significant follow up action. The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) provided additional support
for strengthening the Superintendency of Banks and restructuring of  the development banks.  In
compliance with the conditionalities of FSAC. GOB did submit restructuring plans for the two banks prior
to the release of the second tranche, but these plans were never effectively implemented. The role of BAB
and BANEST remained uncertain till. in accordance with Board presentation conditions of the subsequent
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). BAB was closed and the functions of BANEST were redefined.
Some actions to reorg,anize BANEST were uLndertaken in 1991 and 1992. Eventually, in December 1993,
the government decided to liquidate BANEST as well. Please see FSAC's PCR, dated June 24, 1994. for
further details.
26.           In sum, the project succeeded in achieving its objective of introducing far-reaching
institutional changes in public financial management, tax administration and financial intermediation. The
new legal, administrative and procedural frameworks changed the way the concerned entities performed
their functions. The new infonnation svstems gave GOB a firmer grip over policy formulation and
execution. At the same time, these systems introduced greater efficiency, transparency and accountability
into the processes of raising and spending public resources. The level of technological sophistication in
govemment operations was also enhdaniced.
Project Sustainability
27.            The conceptual foundation of the reforms supported by the project is strong and has been
buttressed by the requisite legislative and administrative authority. Therefore, the formal structure created
by the reforms is likely to remain in force over the long-run. Sustainability of the project's impact on the
day-to-day operations of Government could, however, be at risk. The major risks would be diminished
government commitment to the underlying principles of the project, before they become firmly rooted in the
management culture of public sector entities; lax enforcement of the relevant laws and regulations; and
deterioration in staff skills due to attrition, transfers and the inabilitv to recruit qualified new staff due to
low salaries.
28.           Some slackeninig of high level involvement in the successor project, PFMO-II, was
observed in the recent past. possibly due to other pressing goveniment priorities. This affected inter-
departmental coordination and systems integration. GOB has, however, expressed its continuing support
for the project and remedial measures have since been initiated. The successful implementation of PFMO-
II, which seeks to improve upoIn the systems developed by this project and extend these to other public



7
sector entities is the key to the sustainability of the results achieved by PFMO-I. Special attention needs to
be given to finalization, approval and implementation of norms and regulations in operations programming,
budget evaluation, and treasury functions. To ensure that public servants intemalize the reforms and apply
them while performing their official duties, the level of awareness about the new laws and rules amongst
senior managers and line staff needs to be raised. This would require periodic seminars, conferences and
continuing technical training. Also, the problems caused by frequent staff tumover need to be addressed.
Finally, GOB needs to strictly enforce compliance with the new legal and normative framework by all
public servants. Deviations would need to be closely monitored and remedial actions envisaged by the
SAFCO law, including sanctions against defaultilg public servants, would need to be vigorously pursued.
For this purpose, it may be necessary to strengthen the judicial machinery.
Bank Performance
29.           The project was prepared very thoroughly. High caliber intemational consultants were
engaged to design project components.  Bank staff involved in task management of the project
demonstrated great enthusiasm  for the project and a firm grip over its technical aspects. Supervision
missions led by LA3C I drew on the expertise of various Divisions of the Bank, especially LA3TF,
LATTF, LA3AG, IECIE and PBD. Project activities and supervision were extensively coordinated with
the IMF, IDB, UNDP and USAID. Mission members adopted a hands-on approach and dealt with
technical and implementation issues in depth.  Aide Memoirs and Back to Office Reports provided an
exhaustive discussion of project activities undertaken, current status of different components and current
issues and constraints. Bank Missions adopted a problem solving approach and tried to find workable
solutions to the difficulties encountered. In most cases, concrete remedial actions were agreed to with
counterparts.
30.           The main lessons leamed from the Bank's experience can be summarized below:
(a)    Complex institution building projects require long-term  govemment commitment at the
highest level. This may be difficult to sustain due to changes in govenmment or changes in
govenmment priorities. Yet, unless the reforms are perceived as ranking high in the
leadership's priorities, it is likely that, after the initial thrust, they would loose their impact.
Meclhaniisms, therefore, need to be found to sustain high level involvement in the reforms,
at least until they can go ahead on their own steam.
(b)    When institutional changes are subject to changes in the goveming administrative laws, it
would be preferable to enact the requisite legislation before the project starts. Delays,
such as those observed in the passage of the SAFCO law, create ambiguity and confusion
amongst the agencies and officials likely to be affected by the legal changes. This has an
adverse impact on project implementation.
(c)    Staff tumnover adversely affects the sustainability of reforms, especially, in technical fields
such as public financial management. Suitable human resource policies should, therefore,
be devised to ensure that (a) staff remain in the positions for which they have been trained
for a reasonable period and (b) the compensation system, at least for highly skilled jobs, is
such that qualified persons can be attracted and retained in public service.
(d)    Rapid changes in information technology necessitate continuous upgrading of computer
systems. Systems developed under the aegis of a particular project are likely to become
out-dated soon after the project ends. To avoid this, it may be useful to devise mechanisms
that would enable the borrower to finance the regular upgrading of the systems, without
depending on a successor project that may or may not materialize. The PFMO-I had the
PFMO-II to finance the enhancement of its systems. Other projects may not have this
advantage.



8
(e)    In countries where VAT on imports is a significant part of tax revenues, but is collected by
the customs department and not the tax department. it would be preferable to broaden the
scope of tax administration reforn to simultaneously cover the customs department as
well. Restricting reforms only to the tax department, as was done in this project, leads to
sub-optimal results as a major part of tax revenues continues to be collected in an
inefficient manner.
Borrower Performance
31.           The project enjoyed strong political support from GOB. This was one of the major
reasons for the project's success in implementing far-reaching institutional reforms.  CONSAFCO met
frequently and effectively guided project implementation. The executive secretary of CONSAFCO and the
Technical Director provided excellenit leadership to the project at the operational level and enjoyed the
confidence of the Govenunient. Counterpart staff demonstrated enthusiasm for the reforms and the project
was implemented with considerable speed and dispatch.
Pr-oiect Relationships
32.           Project relationshlips were generally very positive. The Bank enjoyed a close rapport with
GOB officials at tlle political and administrative levels. The project received continued support and
cooperation from other inteniationial agencies mentioned above. Conflicts of interest appear to have been
avoided by a clear demarcationi of the respective areas of activity and extensive coordination at the
implementation stage. Counterpart staff had good relations with consultants working on different project
segments. This contributed to the high quality of outputs and timely project completion.
Consultin2 Services
33.           Since project activities were basically of a technical nature. international and national
consultants played a major role in its success. The quality of consultants deployed and their outputs was
very high. The foreign firm engaged to develop the financial management systems did a good job. The
success of the tax refonr and increase in tax collections was largely due to the consultant team working on
the tax administration component. The Banking System Reform component was designed by top latin-
american consultants with successful experience in designing and implementing institutional reforms in
central banks.
Pro ject Documentation
34.           The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provided a useful framework for the project. Besides a
good diagnosis of the prevailing situation and design of proposed remedies, it clearly identified the
respective roles of implemeniting agencies within GOB and of the international donors involved. Detailed
implementation schedules. tenns of reference and cost tables helped in monitoring and coordination of
project activities. The Credit Agreement also was well-drafted and contained legal covenants for crucial
activities. Not much difficulty was experienced in gathering data for the Project Completion Report, except
for data on counterpart expenditures and on the break up of total costs between local and foreign costs.



9
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.           On July 31, 1987, the Republic of Bolivia and the World Bank's International
Development Association signed Credit Agreement 1809-BO to fund the Public Financial Management
Project. The operation consisted of three separate components:
Component A: Financial Administration and Control System (SAFCO)
Component B: Tax Administration
Component C: Banking System Reforms
2.           This report will review and assess project performance for each of these components
separately.
1.            COMPONENTA: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATIONAND CONTROL (SAFCO)
Main Obiectives
3.           The primary objectives of the SAFCO component were (1) to set in place a series of
systems, namely: an integrated financial management and control system for government; accounting,
internal control, and financial information systems and associated administrative systems; cash
management and public debt systems; and systems for programming operations, budgeting, and execution,
and (2) to strengthen audit and systems development functions in the Office of the Controller General of the
Republic. These objectives were devised to tailor the project directly to Bolivia's economic circumstances.
bearing in mind a number of specific realities:
* The demise of a growth model based on state capitalism and protection, which favored
inward-looking development.
Inconsistent and contradictory rules for financial management and state fiscal control.
* Political instability and the ensuing weakness of basic democratic institutions.
* The state of administrative and financial chaos inherited by the democratic
administration from a period of institutional instability.
4.            The chief risk identified for implementation of the project was its vulnerability to changes
in government. For this reason, it was assigned a relatively short time-frame for completion.
5.           The attainment of these objectives was considered to be imperative if the country was to
have sound fiscal controls in place as the government implemented its New Economic Policy, launched in
August 1985.
Achievement of Project Activities
6.           The project's main objectives were substantially achieved.  Its most important
achievements on the legislative front were the Government Administration and Control Act (Law 1,178)
passed on July 10, 1990, which did away with the profusion of contradictory laws and regulations and
established a basic framework of rules for developing systems and apportioning responsibilities and
authority among central government administrative bodies. Pursuant to a number of other legal directives
(supreme decrees and ministerial orders), the Ministry of Finance was reorganized, regulations governing
the budget system were issued, and an Integrated Accounting Manual was put into effect. The government
control system was revamped, the Office of the Controller General was restructured, and rules for
organizing public-sector audit units and government audit standards were issued.



10
7.            Significant among the practical accomplishments of this component was the start-up of the
following systems: Cash Operations Information System (SOEC), operated by the emergency program and
developed for decentralized agencies and public enterprises; the Budgeting System, for use throughout the
public sector and monitored by the Budget Office; the Integrated Financial Information System, operated
jointly by the Treasury Office and the General Accounting Office; and the Wage Bill and Payroll
Management and Control System.
8.            Some 3,000 persons received training in sessions organized by the Training Center of the
Office of the Controller General. Training was provided on the features of Law 1,178 and implementation
of administrative systems, and courses were given in basic, intermediate, and advanced accounting.
Main Activities Completed
9.            The following main activities were completed:
a.     Government Administration and Control Act: The draft legislation was
reviewed and reworked with parliamentary committees, to come up with a final
version that became law on July 10, 1990.
b.     A series of administrative systems:
* Emergency Program: Methodological guidelines were devised for
gathering and processing financial data from public entities to produce
fiscal statistics, including consolidated operations of the non-financial
public sector (NFPS). Since 1988 monthly reports have been produced
showing actual revenues, expenditures, and financing of the NFPS, along
with the pertinent analyses.
* Reorganization of the Ministry of Finance: Supreme Decree 22,106 of
December 29, 1988, revamped the organizational structure of the Ministry
to develop its policy-setting and operational responsibilities, with due
segregation and coordination of its functions.
* Budgeting System: Basic regulations were devised (Ministry of Finance
Order 704) to govem the budgeting, budget execution and evaluation
process.
* Cash Management and Public Debt System: The Integrated Financial
Information System (SIIF) was designed and put into practice in 1990. It
simplifies expenditure processing through the exercise of programming
and quota control for expense accruals and disbursements.
* Integrated Accounting System: Manuals were produced to set out
integrated accounting procedures for the central govermnent, non-
commercial public institutions, and regional development corporations.
Working in concert with the Ministry of Finance, the Government
Accounting Office was set up in September 1989, with an accounts
processing office and computer center.
* Non-financial Management Systems: A system was put in place to track
changes in wage bills, work force, and salary scales for the entire public
sector. A survey was done of central government positions, with financial



11
support from international organizations to the EMSO project as a
prelude to the Public Sector Management Project.
c.     Government control: A team of advisors for the Controller General's Office
(CGR) was set up to address the areas of regulations, external audit, and internal
oversight. Internal oversight standards were prepared for the organization and
administrative procedures for all public-sector entities.
d.     Training: Instructors were selected and trained in teaching techniques. They
delivered a series of basic training courses for professional-level staff, to ensure
that government administrators, accountants, attomeys, and auditors would be
fully capable of implementing and operating the SAFCO systems.
Six workshops were held on programming of budget execution, and four
workshops on financial statement and management report preparation and
presentation.
e.     Physical plant and equipment: Construction work on CGR facilities and the
installation of fumiture were completed in 1990. Contracts were awarded for the
purchase of computer hardware and document reproduction equipment which were
installed along with other items needed for the following project components:
technical oversight, emergency program, Budget Office, Treasury Office, General
Accounting Office, and National Training Center (CENCAP).
Sustainability
10.           The SAFCO  program  has improved budgeting, operating  programs, and other
organizational areas in the Ministry of Finance. It has also led to changes in budget execution and
spending procedures in the Treasury Department. Other benefits are an improvement in government
accounting, cash reporting svstems in the larger public entities, tighter internal oversight procedures and
auditing standards in the wake of the reorganization of the Controller General's Office, and training in
principles of financial management. These accomplishments indicate a strong motivation and ongoing
commitment on the part of the state and its institutions to move ahead, in future, with programs targeting
financial management and improved control systems. In brief, it appears very likely that the project's
successes can be sustained and, indeed, built upon in future operating plans.
Bank Performance
11.           The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory at the project identification stage and
through the assistance it afforded. The technical support furnished by the Bank's project officers was an
important element in its success; their continual monitoring of project activities helped the government to
secure effective execution of the measures needed to implement the various systems developed.
Borrower Performance
12.           The government's performance throughout the project identification and implementation
phases can be termed highly satisfactory, in light of the political will demonstrated in putting into practice
the systems developed to strengthen government financial management and control. The restructuring of
the Ministry of Finance and Office of the Controller General attests to the importance that the government
accorded to the project.



12
Results
3 .         The main benefits that have ensued from the new systems described above, and which can
be considered permanent gains, are:
Reliable, timely, and relevant financial information generated by the Cash
Operations Information System (SOEC) and the Integrated Financial
Information System (SIIF), which afford the government a clear overall picture
of the fiscal situation and developments in the non-financial public sector. These
systems have also enabled the government to (a) bolster its negotiating position
with international organizations and (b) manage the consolidated liquidity of the
non-financial public sector and adopt measures to keep financial variables within
IMF program targets.
Transparency in the workings of government, thanks to the paring of the
discretionary element in the management of public moneys.
Less corruption and more efficient administration as a result of simplified
procedures for paying amounts owed to the Treasury.
Use of a quota system to allocate resources to public entities.
Adoption of a program budgeting system.
*      'The most salient achievement on the legislative front is the enactment of the
Government Administration and Control Law. Its provisions have been
publicized and analyzed in a number of quarters, and the objectives it seeks
are generally acknowledged to be coherent and ambitious.
14.          The results attained by virtue of the government control system are evident in the
legislation issued to tighten internal and external controls, and in the success of the training component.
Thie latter is also considered as a permanent gain because training is now an institutionalized activity.
15.          The training school, CENCAP, has offered training to 3,007 people, most of it centering
on implementation of the budgeting system and new cash management procedures. These were not formal
training events but rather a limited on-the-job training activity, which was nevertheless essential for
instituting and carrying through the reforms.
Future Operations
16.          In the short term, regulations under the Government Administration and Control Act will
need to be issued and its provisions brought into force. The efforts that this will entail in terms of
resources, activities, and decision-making will be even greater than those deployed to produce the gains
described in this report. To that end, the Bolivian Government is currently executing a project for
implementation of the Government Administration and Control Act (ILACO)l .
17.          In the years ahead there will be a need to generate savings in public finances so the country
can increase social and infrastructure outlays. To do so, it will need to consolidate and build upon the
gains achieved with this project.
ILACO is the same as PFMO-1I.



13
II.    COMPONENT B: TAX ADMINISTRATION
Main Objectives
18.           The first stage of this project was carried out by the Ministry of Tax Collections and the
remainder by the Ministry of Finance. The general objective of this component was to devise a new tax
administration model that would incorporate all of the reforms and taxation systems needed for efficient
operation.
19.          In pursuit of that central aim. specific objectives were set for the Internal Revenue
Department (DGRI) and Customs Department'. to bring in changes in three stages. which were embodied
in a series of agreemenits entered into by the Bolivian Government and the implementing agencies.
20.           The following are the principal objectives achieved at each stage.
Stage I
Design development, and implementation of systems of taxpayer registration,
automiiated data collection and capture through the banking system, and tax
regulations.
First phase of the reorganizatioin of the DGRI. (the Spanish name of this office has
chaniged from IDireccion General de la Renta Interna DGRI to Direcci6n General
de Iimpuestos Internos DGII).
Stage 2
Designi of audit procedures: creation of a Large Taxpayer unit in La Paz; systems for
tracking collections.
Stage 3
lDevelopment of supplemenitarv collection systems; systems to select taxpayers for
audits: development of part of the taxpayer current-account system and
implementation of same; assistance in the operation and consolidation of systems
developed in Stages I and 2 and in implementing the new organizational structure.
A further objective of this stage was to develop and implement a revenue
collection svstem for the Customs Department.
21.           The objectives of this project were devised to address the economic difficulties Bolivia had
been experiencing ulp to 1986. as deteriorating terms of trade left the country at a severe disadvantage and
ultimately witlh a balance-of-payments deficit, and to attempt to reverse the sharp downturn in economic
activity wlichi had cut into government revenues notably tax receipts.
22.           Thle aim was to help the economy recover by bringing in a taxation system that would
boost tax revenues.
23.           Specific objectives were set for each stage; minor adjustments were made as needed in the
course of the operation.
2  Editorial Note: The Customs Departmenit was not directly covered under the PFMO-I.



14
Achievement of Proiect Activities
24.           The project made considerable gains in implementing the proposed systems and
consolidating reforms of the country's tax administration. Its success is evident in the various performance
indicators (increase in the tax burden, simpler procedures, fewer taxes, streamlined tax administration,
etc.). Nevertheless, a number of objectives proved too complex to be achieved in full in the time-frame
envisaged; the remaining elements will need to be addressed in future programs.
25.           The following are noteworthy among the specific accomplishments of this component:
In the Internal Revenue Department:
Support for each of the national areas and regional offices, to help them reshape
and complete their organizational structures and perform their assigned functions.
Training of employees in the main operations areas.
The design, in the Department itself, of strategies to monitor the reforms instituted.
At Headquarters, assistance in devising operating timetables for boosting tax
receipts, and coordination between the Department and the regional offices.
In the Audit Office, development of audit systems, drafting and release of a
number of operations directives and institution of controls. Creation of Large
Taxpayer Units at the three main regional offices.
In the collections area, setting up of a taxpayer register, development of a system
for payment of taxes at banks, and follow-up and supplementary systems.
In the Technical and Legal Affairs Office, preparation of procedural directives to
strengthen this area.
In the External Affairs Office, publications and other information activities to
familiarize the public with the new taxes being levied as part of the tax reform,
and plans for further taxpayer education programs.
In the Data-Processing Office, development and installation of computer systems
to track tax receipts. Gradual implementation of planned systems that had never
been brought into service, and adjustment of other systems (follow-up on tax
notices, register, etc.).
In the regional offices, specialized technical support in the areas of collection,
auditing, and technical and legal matters.
Partial development of the taxpayer current-account system and implementation
thereof.
In the Customs Department:
Design of a system for collection and control of customs duties and other levies on
all imports, including value added and specific consumption taxes.
Signing of an agreement with the banking system.
Design of customs clearance forms and receipts and contracting out of same.
Writing of instructions for completing new forms and procedures for inward
customs clearance of goods.
Design and implementation of a new structure for the Data-Processing
Department, and planning and control of an import levy system.
Development and implementation of a control system for delivery of goods.
Training of staff in customs administration operations.



15
Main Activities Completed
26.           A reasonable portion of the tax reforms sought has been achieved. A number of problems,
none of them readilv surmountable, stood in the way of full implementation: persistently high inflation
rates. a plethora of tax laws and regulations, a large number of taxes, and revenue earmarking. Other
problem areas over wlich the govenmment had a somewhat greater measure of control were the shortage of
experienced maniagers and a hlighly politicized tax administration, which meant frequent turnover of
employees with needed skills.
Suistainability
27.           Because this project is so important and can have a definitive impact on the process of
overhauling thie country's tax administration. there is every likelihood that it will continue in the future.
The current political clinate (a stable democracy) and stable economy, underpinned by the commitments
made and decisions taken in political quarters and by public institutions and international organizations,
suggest that the needed teclnical resources and funding will be forthcoming in order to preserve the gains
achieved to date and expand the project's activities in the future.
Bank Performance
28.           The World Bank played a satisfactory part in achieving the project's aims.
Borrower Performance
29.           Given the constraints within which they had to work, the performance of the Government
and the implemeneting agencies was highly satisfactory at the project identification and preparation stages.
However. their achievements on the implementation side can only be termed satisfactory.
Results
30.           The original objectives, as subsequently modified, were achieved on schedule and
relatively successfullv, so the project can be said to have been satisfactory.
31.           The invigorated tax collection system brought in as part of the overhaul of the country's
tax administration has proved to be highly efficient, leaving taxpayers with a new image of this government
service.
32.           The computerized audit systems now in place have yielded optimum results, given the
precarious state of this area before their implementation.
Future Operations
33.           There is a need to plan future activities to ensure that tax administration reforms will be
firmly entrenclhed and to devise new systems to keep pace with an active financial sector and changing
economy.
34.           The following are some of the general tasks that will need to be tackled in the years ahead:
Optimization of the systems now in place, to use them to full advantage.
Development of new systems, with due regard to technology and resource
constraints.
Building up of DGRI management capacity and institution of management control
systems and tools.



16
Consolidation and fine-tuning of the DGRI's organizational structure.
Organization of an efficient, merit-based human resources management system.
Restructuring of the Customs Department, to make the sweeping changes needed
and bring in automated systems and management controls, with the ultimate ain
of boosting customs revenues.
35.          To this end, the Government of Bolivia and the World Bank should remain in close
communication, as part of their normal arrangements, to maximize the benefits of the project.
11.  COMPONENT C: BANKING SYSTEMREFORM
Main Objectives
36.          The main objectives of the Banking System Reforms project were to improve the
organization of the Central Bank, the bank inspection system, monetary policy, and debt management, and
to implement a program to reorganize two state-owned development banks.
Achievement of Probect Obiectives
37.          The project's main objectives were achieved, with considerable gains made in the following
areas:
a)    External debt
b)    Internal audit
c)    Money and credit
d)    Banco Agricola and Banco del Estado
e)    Creation of the Superintendency of Banks
External debt
38.          The groundwork was laid for design of a debt reporting system, through training of staff in
a single operating system for report production, and administrative rules and projection systems. These
systems have bolstered Central Bank supervision capabilities.
Internal audit
39.          A Financial Audit Manual was designed and management personnel were trained.
Money and credit
40.          An accounting subsystem was instituted for open-market operations, to integrate with the
Central Bank's accounting system and set up a teamn of systems analysts and programmers.
Banco Agricola and Banco del Estado
41.          A diagnostic study was completed of these two banks to address areas requiring action,
such as a review of personnel and assessment of the viability of the provincial offices. Work began on a
loan grading system. The Government adopted a political decision on the role of these institutions.



17
Superintendent of Banks
42.           Assistance was given to set up a Superintendency of Banks to regulate the nation's banking
system.
Main Activities Completed
43.           Any problems that arose in the course of the project were rminor ones, and did not affect its
outcome. Employees and consultants worked out uniform approaches that established a solid base for
project activities and helped achieve most of the project's aims.
Sustainability
44.           The technical support received by the Central Bank of Bolivia under the Public Financial
Management Project yielded gains in the areas mentioned above, tightening administrative and systems
controls.
Bank Performance
45.           The technical assistance furnished by the Bank was a major factor in the achievement of
the primary objectives noted above.
Borrower Performance
46.           The Govenuient's performance can be termed satisfactory, inasmuch as it assigned high
priority to financial refonms in its economic policy.
Results
47.           The main aims of this component of the Public Financial Management Project were
achieved satisfactorily, making as it did for more efficient and more transparent administration of the
banking system.
Future Operations
48.           Future activities in the area of banking system reform should include human resources
development and new systems for the nation's banks.






19
PART 111.    STATISTICAL TABLES
1. Table 1:   Related Bank Loanis/Credits
2. Table 2:   Project Timetable
3. Table 3:   Credit Disbursemiienits
4. Table 4:   Project Implemiienitation
5  Table 5:   Project Costs
6. Table 6:   Project Financing
7. Table 7    Project Results
8. Table 8:   Studies Included in Project
9. Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants
10. Table 10:  Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
11. Table I 1:  Use of Bank ResouLces: Missions
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                    Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
None applicable
Following operations
1. La Paz Municipal       Related componenits: Financial                  1987            Disbursing
Development Project    managemenit computerization (includes
budgeting, accouniting, investment
planning).
2. Economic Management  Related components: Public investment             1988            Disbursing
Strengthening          programming, tax administration, regional
Operation              and public sector management
strengthening.
3. Financial Sector       Related components: Strengthening of            1989               Fully
Adjustment Credit      banking system including banking                                 Disbursed
supervision/regulation.
4. Public Financial       Related component: Project is continuation      1991            Disbursing
Management Operation   of PFMO 1, with more emphasis on
11                    implementation of computerized IFMS.
5. Structural Adjustment   Related components: Budget transfer            1991            Disbursing
Credit                 mechanisms from central to local
govenuments.



20
Table2: Project Timetable
Item                             Date planned                  Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              Feb. 86
Preparation                                             May 86
Appraisal Mission                                       Feb. 87
Credit Negotiations                                    April 87
Board Approval                                          5-28-87
Credit Signing                                          7-31-87
Credit Effectiveness                                    Sept. 87                     12-15-87
Credit Closing                                          6-30-92                      6-30-94
Credit Completion                                       Dec. 91                      6-30-94
Table 3: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Disbursements
(US$ thousands)
FY88      FY89       FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94    FY95
Appraisal estimate       3,400      4,800      3,300       -         -         -         -
Actual                   3,510      4,790      1,950      850       380       170       140       70
Actual as % of estimate
103       100        59         -         -         -         -
Date of final
disbursement:           8/05/94



21
Table 4: Project Implementation
Indicators                        Appraisal                          Actual
Estimate                     (or PCR Estimate)
Financial Administration and
Control
1. Financial Monitoring of major   1. Establish Emergency Program to  1. The Emergency Program covered
public sector entities.            collect financial statistics of 34  73 entities. About 95% of
major non-financial public sector    resource flows in the non-financial
entities.                        public sector monitored.
2. Development of norms and        2. Enact SAFCO Law and prepare   2. SAFCO Law enacted, although
procedures for effective public    norms and procedures for          after a delay of about 2 years.
financial management.              operational programming,          Manuals of nonms for and
budgeting, budget execution,     proceduies for budgeting, budget
public credit, accounting,       execution, public credit,
auditing, procurement and        accounting and auditing
personnel management.            developed.
3. Organizational restructuring.   3. Establish Office of the        3. Office of the Accountant General
Accountant General and           created. Ministry of Finance and
reorganize the Ministry of       Office of the Controller General
Finance and the Office of the    of the Republic reorganized in line
Controller General of the        with the SAFCO Law.
Republic.
4. Develop and commission          4. Install computerized systems for   4. Computer systems for cash
automated systems for financial    financial administration and      management, budget formulation,
administration and control.        control in public entities.       budget execution and accounting,
and control of payroll
commissioned.
5. Train staff in financial management  5. Train 300 officials through  5. About 3000 officials provided
and control.                       fonmal and on-the-job training.  training of varying intensity in
public financial management.
T ax Administration
1. Restructure the Tax Administration   I. Create a Ministry of Tax  1. A temporary Ministry of Tax
to improve its effectiveness.      Collections and strengthen the    Collections created. IRD
organization and management of   restructured and revamped.
the Internal Revenue Deptt..
2. Strengthen tax administration   2. Transfer tax collection to     2. Tax collections transferred to
through reorganization of          commercial banks, develop         commercial banks. Divisions for
operations, development of nonns   systems for control of            control of large taxpayers created.
and procedures, installation of    compliance, registration of       Computerized systems for
computerized systems and training  taxpayers, auditing a:d statistics.    taxpayer registration, selection of
cases for audits, monitoring of
non-compliance and generation of
reliable tax statistics installed.



22
Indicators                       Appraisal                          Actual
Estimate                     (or PCR Estimate)
Banking System Reform
I. Reorganize and strengthen the  1. Reorganize the Central Bank to    1. The Central Bank made the sole
Central Bank.                     emphasize the key central        monetary authority in the country
banking functions.              and reorganized. Economic
Research, Financial Systems,
Debt Management & Accounting
Divisions strengthened.
Accounting systems
computerized.
2. Improve banking supervision.   2. Separate central banking      2. An autonomous Superintendency
functions and banking           of Banks created. Manuals for
supervision; and strengthen     evaluation of accounts of banks.
banking inspection.             banking inspections and financial
analysis produced. Technical
assistance in supervision of bank
audits provided.
3. Restructure two Development    3. Restructure Banco Agricola de    3. Legislation defining the roles of
Banks.                          Bolivia (BAB) and Banco del        BAB and BANEST passed.
Estado (BANEST).                   However, the banks could not be
restructured due to a lack of
consensus on the restructuring
plan.



23
Table 5: Project Costs
(US$ Thousands)
Appraisal estimate                   Actual/latest estimate
Local      Foreign                    Local       Foreign
costs       costs        Total        costs        costs        Total3
Item
l 1. Financial        8,100       5,910        14,010       8,237        6,010       14,247
administration
and control
2. Tax                2,530       2,120        4,650        2,573        2,156       4,729
administration.
3. Banking           2,620        1,330        3,950        2,664        1,353       4,017
system reforms
4. Project             350        1,150        1,500         352         1,156        1,508
preparation   .
5. UNDP/PIU                         450          450                      481          481
administration  .
TOTAL                13,600      10,960       24,560       13,826       11,156       24,982
Table 6: Project Financing
(US$ Thousands)
Planned (Credit Agreement)                    Actual
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
costs       costs       Total       costs       costs        Total
Source                                                                                 l
IDA                      2,050       9,450       11,500       1,837       10,020     11,857
[DB/UNDP                    90        1,510       1,600        337         1,136      1,473
USAID                    3,060         -          3,060       3,252                   3,252
Government of Bolivia    8,400         -          8,400       8,400                   8,4004
Total                    13,600      10,960      24,560      13,826       11,156     24,982
3  Distribution of total costs between local and foreign costs estimated due to insufficient data.
4  GOB did not maintain separate accounts of counterpart contributions made by it. Therefore the actual
contribution has been assumed to be same as that originally planned at appraisal.



24
Table 7: Project Results
Indicators                     Estimated                         Actual
FinancialAdministration and Control
1. Availability of reliable financial  1. Financial data of 35 public sector 1. Emergency Program provided
statistics regarding public sector  entities to be available through  data covering 73 public entities
entities to facilitate financial   Emergency Program.              and 95% of resource flows in the
management and policy formulation.                                non-financial public sector. The
program needs to be incorporated
into mainstream functions of the
entities.
2. Improved financial management   2. Preparation of budgets and   2. A modem normative framework
characterized by greater           control of budgetary           for public financial management
transparency, efficiency and       expenditures using the new     and accountability established.
accountability.                    systems, preparation of timely  Reorganization of the MOF and
and accurate accounts of the   computerized financial systems
Central Government, and        increased efficiency, reduced
enhanced accountability.       discretion and enabled timely
preparation of government
financial statements. Budgets
prepared using new norms and
systems. The internalization and
enforcement of the norms needs
further strengthening. Also
computer systems needed to be
integrated and further refined.
This is being done by PFMO-II.
3. Strengthened internal and external    3. Improved external auditing and    3. CGR's role modified to focus on
control environment in the         internal controls.              ex-post auditing and prior control
government.                                                       eliminated. CGR given extensive
powers to initiate action against
erring officials, but its judicial
powers transferred to the
Judiciary. Norms for internal
control and auditing developed.
External auditing strengthened.
Tax Administration
1. Tax Reform Act of 1986          1. Improved tax collections,   1. Domestic tax collections improved
implemented and tax administration  increased efficiency and reduced    from about 1% of GDP in 1984
effectiveness increased.           corruption in tax administration.    to 7.8% of GDP in 1992. Tax
administration's ability to
monitor compliance increased.
Computerization increased
efficiency and reduced corruption
to some extent. However, tax
auditing and investigation still
need improvement.



25
Indicators                     Esfimated                         Actual
Banking System Reform
1. Capacity of Central Bank to perform  1. Increased efficiency and  1. Central Bank capacity and
its core functions enhanced.       effectiveness of the Central    performance significantly
Bank.                          improved.
2.Banking supervision strengthened.  2. Improved supervision of    2. Supervision of commercial banks
commercial banks.              tightened.
3. Two major development banks     3. Strengthened development banks. 3. The targeted development banks
restructured.                                                      could not be restructured.



26
Table 8: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined          Status               Impact of study
1. Various studies       To put in place norms and       Completed.        The studies helped in
conducted to          principles with which to                           setting up the framework
establish/define norms   implement                                       for public financial
for different aspects of  integrated/computerized                        management.
public financial      financial & administrative
management.           systems.
2. Analysis of the       To reorganize and               Completed.         Reorganization of the IRD
organizational structure  strengthen tax                                 helped improve its
of the tax            administration and                                 effectiveness. Transfer of
administration and the   facilitate tax collection                       tax collection to
tax collection system.    through commercial banks.                      commercial banks
improved collections and
enabled IRD to focus on
monitoring non-
compliance.
3. Various studies       To reorganize the Central       Completed.         Central bank reorganized
conducted to implement  Bank and the two                                 and strengthened.
different aspects of the   development banks,                            Autonomous
Banking Reform        strengthen central banking                         Superintendency of Banks
component.            functions and create the                           created. Restructuring
new Superintendency of                            plans for the development
Banks.                                            banks could not be put into
effect due to a lack of
consensus.



27
Table9: Status of Legal Covenants
Deadline for
Reference            Subject                 Compliance    Status  Comments
Section 3.01         Distribution of         Continuous   C
responsibility between
Implementing Agencies
and ensuring that relevant
public entities participate
and assist in project
implementation.
Section 3.02         Procurement of goods and  Continuous   C
consulting services to be
in accordance with
Schedule 3 of the
Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 3.03         Arrangements with Banco  Continuous   C
Central de Bolivia for
implementation of Part C
of the project.
Section 3.04 and 3.05  Project monitoring and  July, 1987    C
implementation
arrangement
Section 3.06 and 3.07  Preparation of Component  Annually/    CD   Annual Action
Implementation Programs,  quarterly           Plans delayed.
Annual Action Plans and
quarterly reports.
Section 3.08         Alternative funding     12/87         C       IDB funds
arrangements to be made                       were available.
by GOB if IDB Grant
funds not available
Section 4.01         Accounts and Audits     Accounting   CD       Audit Reports
continuous.          delayed
Auditing              significantly.
Annual
Schedule I           Non-financing of tax out   Continuous   CD    Tax on foreign
read with General    of the credit.                                consultants
Conditions                                                         initially paid
out of credit,
but
subsequently
reversed
Status:       C= covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay



28
TablelO: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned                     Revised                     Actual
project cycle     Weeks          US$          Weeks          US$          Weeks           US$
Through appraisal     20.0          30,769        40.0          61,538        53.6          82,462
Appraisal through     16.0          24,615        16.0          24,615        13.1          20,154
Board approval
Board approval         6.0          9,231          3.0          4,615          0.6            923
through
effectiveness
Supervision           65.0         100,000        75.0         115,385        88.4         136,000
Completion            14.0          21,538        18.0         27,692         15.0          23,000
Tablel 1: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project  MonW    Number of  Days    Specialized staff TPerformance[ Types of problems
cycle          year         persons   in field J skills represented  rating
Through appraisal   3/84;     10         29      Task management,  n/a
5/86;                         audit; accounting;
10/86                          central banking;
tax administration;
legal.
Appraisal through    4/87     4           3       Task management  n/a
Board approval
Board approval                I          0       Task management   n/a           Managerial
through
effectiveness
Supervision       10/87;      16         77      Task management,  I to 2        Managerial,
4/88;                         budgeting;                      Technical
11/88;                         accounting;
3/90;                         treasury; public
1/91;                        credit; auditing.;
2/92;                         institutional
6/94                          development;
-     central banking;
tax administration
Completion        6/94        1           10     Task management;  1
tax administration  I






IMAGING
Report No:      15159
Type: PCR



