Page  1
November 23, 1994
Mr. Fernando Cossio, Cossio 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
and/or Ms. Gaby Candia 
Secretary of Finance 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
Cajon Postal -Ministerio de Finanzas 
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688 
La Paz, Bolivia
RE:
BOLIVIA: Dutch Grant Related to FPF Nos. 638-0-BO and 638-1-BO, and to 
Credits Number 1809-BO, 1977-BO and 2092-BO Third Amendment to the Dutch 
Grant Agreement
Dear Mr. Cossio:
We refer to the Dutch Grant Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia (the 
Recipient) and the International Development Association as Administrator of Grant 
Funds provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the 
Administrator) dated July 29, 1993 (the Dutch Grant Agreement) as amended on 
October 4, 1993 and January 11, 1994.
We are pleased to inform you that we agree with your proposal to modify certain 
provisions of the Dutch Grant Agreement as follows:
1.
In the table in Schedule I to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the amounts in Category
2 are hereby allocated as:
Amount of the Grant
Allocated (Expressed
in Dutch Guilders)
% of Expenditures to 
be
Category
        Financed
(2)
Eligible Expenditures 
related to the First IDA 
Agreement:
(a)
Consultants' services
     325,000
75%
(b)
Goods
      60,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 
of
local expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost) and 
85% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally
(c)
Works
     497,000
100%
2.
Section 2(d) of the Schedule to the Grant Agreement is hereby deleted and
replaced by the following: "The term 'eligible expenditures related to the first IDA
Agreement' means the cost of consultants, including fees, per diem, and travel 
expenses to strengthen the Recipient's Ministry of Finance through establishment of a 
unit responsible for monitoring foreign trade, the cost of works related to building 
remodeling for use as headquarters offices of the Recipient's Secretariat of Finance, 
such remodeling to include, inter alia the renovation of the plumbing, electrical, 
telecommunications and elevator systems, rehabilitation of floors, painting, 
installation of office dividers, and installation of the Recipient's treasury files, 
and computer equipment and the security system thereof, and the acquisition of 
vehicles."
3.
This amendment will be effective from the date of this letter.
Page  2
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
both duplicate originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one 
of the duplicate originals to us at your earliest convenience.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Minister for Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Confirmed:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando A. Cossio
Authorized Representative
Date:  November 30, 1994
