CREDIT NUMBER 1809 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Financial Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1987


﻿fesbltyadpiriyo      h  Proectdesribd in~f Shdul 2( to
this Arent       ha                 As  ciat ion t    s        the
financing of the Project
B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a Loan tthe USAID
Loan) in an amount equivalent to three million dollars
k$3,000,000) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the USAID Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) a grant (the IDB Grant) in an amount
equivalent to one million three hundred thousand dollars
($1,300,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions), with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated January 27, 1986 and May 5, 1986
between the Borrower and the Association, as amended and supple-
mented by a letter dated March 2, 1987 and confirmed by the
Borrower on March 17, 1987;
(b) "MINFIN" means Ministerio de Finanzas (Ministry of
Finance) of the Borrower;
(c) "MINPLAN" means Ministerio de Planeamiento y
Coordinaci6n (Ministry of Planning and Coordination) of the
Borrower;
(d) "CON'TRALORIA" means Contraloria General de la Repiblica
(Office of the Controller General of the Republic) of the
Borrower;
(e) "MINTAX" means Ministerio de Recaudaciones Tributarias
(Ministry of Taxation) of the Borrower;
(f) "BCB" means Banco Central de Bolivia, the Central Bank
of the Borrower, established by Decreto Ley No. 17491 of August 1,
1977;
(g) "BAB" means Banco Agricola de Bolivia (Bolivian Agricul-
tural Bank) established by Decreto Ley No. 09440 of November 4,
1970, and reorganized by Decreto Ley No. 15545 of June 14, 1978;
(h) "BANEST" means Banco del Estado (State Bank) establlshed
by Decreto Supremo of February 11, 1942, and reorganized by
Decreto Supremo No. 11658 of July 26, 1974;
(i) "SAFCO" means Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n
Financiera y Control Gubernamentales (Public Financial Administra-
tion and Control System) to be established pursuant to Section
3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(j) "CONSAFCO" means the council, composed of the Controller
General and the Ministers of MINFIN, MINPLAN and MINTAX of the
Borrower, and such other members (hereinafter referred to as
"Additional Members") as shall be acceptable to the Association,
which shall oversee implementation of SAFCO;


﻿-3-
(k) "Executive Secretariat" means the executing unit
empowered to act on behalf of CONSAFCO, to be established pursuant
to Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement;
(1) "Implementing Agencies" means collectively, MINTAX, BCB,
CONSAFCO; the term "Implementing Agency" means any one of the
Implementing Agencies;
(m) "Component Implementation Program" means a program for
carrying out each Part of the Project through completion thereof,
including an Annual Action Plan (as hereinafter defined) for the
first year of implementation, as the same may be revised from time
to time with the prior approval of the Association;
(n) "Annual Action Plan" means a detailed annual plan of the
activities to be carried out, consultants' services, and results
to be achieved during the relevant year for each Part of the
Project, as the same may be revised from time to time with the
prior approval of the Association;
(o) "Eligible Public Entities" means those public entities,
wholly or partially owned by the Borrower, selected by CONSAFCO
and accepted by the Association for participation in Part A of the
Project; and
(p) "Administrative Services Contract" means the contract
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made, or if the
Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Sectiot. 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
ather eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1997, and ending March 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out through the Implementing Agencies, the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) ensure that, unless otherwise agreed by the Asso-
ciation, the following Implementing Agencies shall
have primary responsibility for carrying out the
stated Part of the Project:
(1) Part A - CONSAFCO,
(2) Part B - MINTAX,
(3) Part C - BCB; and
(ii) cause the Eligible Public Entities and such other
ministries and public entities as shall be required
to carry out the Project or any Part thereof, to
participate and assist in the implementation of the
Project,
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with BCB for pur-
poses of carrying out Part C of the Project, providing for, inter
alia, the obligation to:


﻿-6-
(i) comply with the auditing, reporting and other
applicable obligations set forth or referred to in
this Agreement and the General Conditions;
(ii) enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, with BAB and BANEST to assist in the
carrying out of Part C of the Project, including
the obligation to comply with the provisions of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement for all operations,
expenditures and resources in respect of the
Project; and
(iii) provide, by January 1, 1988, a plan of action,
acceptable to the Association, for the restructur-
ing of BAB and BANEST.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the con-
tractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
in such a manner so as to protect the interest of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such arrangements or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a contract
for purposes of providing administrative services for the Project
on behalf of the Borrower, including the contracting of con-
sultants and the procurement of any goods to be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the con-
tract referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a
manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation and the Implementing Agencies and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Part A of the Project:
(a) establish, in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
a financial administration and control system for ministries and
public entities (SAFCO);


﻿-7-
(b) establish CONSAFCO and maintain the same through com-
pletion of the Project, with such functions and such Additional
Members as shall be acceptable to the Association;
(c) establish an Executive Secretariat of CONSAFCO and main-
tain the same through completion of the Project, with such func-
tions and composed of such members with qualifications and expe-
rience as shall be acceptable to the Association, and assisted by
qualified staff in adequate numbers;
(d) not change the scope of SAFCO, the functions or member-
ship composition of CONSAFCO or the Executive Secretariat without
the prior approval of the Association;
(e) ensure that, prior to requesting any reimbursement from
the Credit Account for expenditures benefitting a public entity,
that such public entity has been accepted by the Association as an
Eligible Public Entity for participation in Part A of the Project;
and
(f) review, at such times as the Association or CONSAFCO
shall reasonably request, those public entities which are included
or proposed to be included as Eligible Public Entities.
Section 3.06, The Borrower shall:
(a) cause each Implementing Agency to prepare and furnish to
the Association, a Component Implementation Program, acceptable to
the Association, for the Part of the Project for which such Agency
is responsible;
(b) cause each Implementing Agency to prepare and furnish to
the Association, by November 30 of each year during Project
implementation, an Annual Action Plan acceptable to the Associa-
tion, for carrying out the Part of the Project for which such
Agency is responsible; and
(c) cause each Implementing Agency to carry out the Compo-
nent Implementation Program and Annual Action Plans for the Part
of the Project for which such Agency is responsible, in accordance
with the respective terms of such Program and Plans.
Section 3.07. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
(a) the Borrower and the Association shall exchange views on
the progress achieved by each Implementing Agency in carrying out
their respective Part of the Project quarterly on February 15,
May 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year beginning on
February 15, 1988, and at all such other times as shall be reason-
ably requested by either the Association or the Borrower; and
(b) not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of
views, the Borrower through each Implementing Agency shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment, a report, of such
detail and scope as the Association shall reasonably request, of
the progress made by each Implementing Agency toward carrying out
its respective Part of the Project.
Section 3.08, In the event that the IDB Grant Agreement has
not been entered into by the Borrower and IDB within one year
after the Effective Date of the Credit, the Borrower shall
promptly make other arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
for the provision of funds equivalent to the proposed IDB Grant,
for Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
ministries, departments or agencies of the Borrower and of each
Implementing Agency responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof, and of each Eligible Public Entity participating
in Part A of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the separate records and accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the


﻿-9-
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
reco,:s and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, subject
to paragraph (b) of this Section:


﻿- 10 -
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the IDB Grant or the USAID Loan or any loans or
credits or other grants to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
suant to the terms of the agreements providing
therefor; or
(ii) the USAID Loan or any loan or credit for the
financing of the Project shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(iii) provided, however, that with respect to sub-para-
graphs (i) and (ii) above, the remedies of Section
6.02 of the General Conditions may apply, if the
Association shall so choose, only to the amount of
the Credit that corresponds to the Part of the
Project to be financed by such 1DB Grant, USAID
Loan or any other loan, credit or grant.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(a) that the Borrower shall have entered into the contrac-
tual arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment;
(b) that the Borrower shall have entered into the Adminis-
trative Services Contract referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement; and
(c) that the Borrower shall have established CONSAFCO and
the Executive Secretariat respectively referred to in paragraphs
(b) and (c) of Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association:
(a) that the contractual arrangements and Administrative
Services Contract respectively referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 6.01 have been duly executed and authorized or
ratified and are legally binding upon the parties thereto in
accordance with their respective terms; and
(b) that all necessary actions have been taken, and no other
action is required to be taken, by or on behalf of the Borrower
for the lawful establishment of CONSAFCO and the Executive
Secretariat.
Section 6.03. The date of                          is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III, IV and V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate, or
on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFINANZAS                      BX 5332
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               4,315,000       100%
Services under
Part A of the
Project
(2) Consultants'                 555,000       100%
Services under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Consultants'               1,055,000       100%
Services under
Part C of the
Project
(4) Goods under                  645,000       100% of foreign
Part A of                                  expenditures
the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Goods under                   160,000       100% of foreign
Part C of the                              expenditures
Project
(6) Personnel costs               310,000      100% of fixed-
of Executive                               term personnel
Secretariat                                costs
under Part A
of the Project
(7) Personnel costs               425,000      100% of fixed-
of MINTAX under                            term personnel
PaLt B of the                              costs
Project
(8) Refunding of                1,170,000      Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(9) Project                       365,000      100%
Administrative
Services
TOTAL                  9,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "fixed-term personnel costs" means the expendi-
tures for salaries of the members, acceptable to the Association,
of the Executive Secretariat or MINTAX, as the case may be, with
employment contracts, approved by the Association,   for a fixed-
term not exceeding three years.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 390,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) through (7) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1987;
(b) payments made for expenditures under Part A of the
Project unless the Borrower shall: (i) have established SAFCO in a
manner satisfactory to the Association; (ii) have provided to -he
Association the Component Implementation Program, acceptable to
the Association, for Part A of the Project; and (iii) have furn-
ished to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association
that all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the
USAID Loan have been met;
(c) payments made for expenditures under Part B of the
Project, unless the Borrower shall have provided to the Associa-
tion the Component Implementation Program, acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, for Part B of the Project; and
(d) payments made for expenditures under Part C of the
Project, unless the Borrower shall have provided to the Associa-
tion the Component Implementation Program, acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, for Part C of the Project.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve financial
administration and control of ministries and public entities; (b)
enable implementation of tax reform and improved tax administra-
tion; and (c) improve the national banking system, strengthen BCB
and restructure main development banks.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Financial Administration and Control System
1.   Establishment of CONSAFCO and its Executive Secretariat
for the overall management of the implementation of a financial
administration and control system for ministries and public enti-
ties (SAFCO).
2.   Establishment of sound and timely accounting, internal
control and financial reporting systems and related capabilities
in MINFIN, MINPLAN, CONTRALORIA and Eligible Public Entities.
3.   Establishment of improved cash and debt management
systems and capabilities in MINFIN and Eligible Public Entities.
4.   Establishment of operational programming, budgetting and
execution systems and capabilities in MINFIN, MINPLAN and Eligible
Public Entities, and project execution and monitoring capabilities
in Eligible Public Entities and MINPLAN.
5.   Strengthening auditing and systems development functions
by CONTRALORIA.
6.   Acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials
required to carry out Part A of the Project.
Part B:   Tax Administration
1.   Implementation of appropriate organization, staffing
and systems for tax administration.
2.   Establishment of systems for, and the carrying out of,
tax auditing and statistical functions.


﻿- 18 -
Part C:   Banking Systems Reform
1.   Improvements in organization, systems and capabilities
of BCB, including improvements in banking inspection, accounting
and internal controls, economic research, policy and operational
procedures and debt monitoring.
2.   Restructuring and building of appropriate capabilities
in the main development banks, including BAB and BANEST.
3.   Acquisition and utilization of equipment required to
carry out Part C of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.


﻿- 19 -
SCVEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Shopping
Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers, eligible under the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), at least two of which shall be
from countries other than the Borrower, and in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and the Implementing Agencies
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to
be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
of reference and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance


﻿- 20 -
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


