Docmnent of
The World Bank
Report No. 15636 LT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
Highway Project
August 2, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Country Deparment IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of April 1996)
Currency Unit - Litas
US$1 = 4.00 Litas
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADT          Average Daily Traffic
DERS         Department of Environmental Protection and Road Traffic Safety
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU-Phare     European Union Aid for Eastern Europe
FSU          Former Soviet Union
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
LT           Lithuanian Litas
LRA          Lithuanian Road Administration
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
MT           Ministry of Transport
NPV          Net Present Value
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PMS          Pavement Management System
RUR          Russian Ruble
SOE          Statement of expenditures
TRRI         Transport and Road Research Institute
VPD          Vehicles per day
LITHUANIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



LITHUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ................                                              i
CHAPTER
I.     ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ....1..... 
A. Economic Overview .....................................                       1
B. Overview of the Transport Sector ............................                 1
HI.    THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR  .............................. .                         3
A. The Highway Network ...................................                       3
B. Road Safety ..........................................                        5
C. Highway Organization  ...................................                     6
D. Highway Maintenance Planning and Budgeting ....................               8
E  Road User Charges .....................................    10
F. Design and Consruction  ............................                         11
G. Environmental Procedures and Issues ..........................    11
Eg.   THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY  ....... ..                    ...........    13
A. Bank Lending to Lithuania .................................                  13
B. Country Assistance Strategy ................................    13
C. Lessons learned from Previous Bank Projects in the Highway Sector ......    13
D. Highway Sector Strategy for Lithuania .........................    14
iV.   THE PROJECT          ...............                 .............               16
A. Project Objectives ............................                              16
B. Project Description  ..........            ..................                16
C. Detailed Project Description  ............................                   18
D. Cost Estimates and Financing ............................                    19
E. Implementation ............................                                  22
F. Status of Cofmancing ...........             .................               23
G. Procurement  ............................                                    23
H. Disbursements ............................                                   25
I. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing ...........................               26
J. Project Supervision ..........             ..................                27
K. Environmental Aspects .............             ...............              27
L. Program Objective Categories ............................                    27
M. Poverty Analysis  ............... .............                              28
N. Participatory Approach  .............           ...............              28
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY ................    29
A. Project Benefits .   .......................................    29
B. Project Risks . .........................................                    32
C. Project Sustainability ............       ........................    32
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ......................    33



ANNEXES
Annex A      Organization Chart of the Lithuanian Road Administration
Annex B      Project Cost Estimates and Detailed Financing Plan
Annex C      Economic Analyses for the Project Components
Annex D      Project Implementation Schedule
Annex E      Monitorable Indicators
Annex F      Procurement Arrangements
Annex G      Procurement Plan and Schedule
Annex H      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex I      Supervision Plan
Annex J      Technical Services to be Provided
Annex K      Environmental Review
MAP          IBRD 28033
Vice President:     Johannes F. Limnn
Director:           Basil G. Kavalsky
Division Chief:     Dominique Lallement
Staff:              Anders Bonde, Task Manager
Robert H. Nooter, Consultant
Gerald Ollivier, Engineer
Carmel Mckenna, Staff Assistant



-1-
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
Highway Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Lithuania
Implementing Agencies:     Lithuanian Road Administration and the Municipalities of Vilnius and
Kaunas
Beneficiaries:             Lithuanian Road Administration, the Municipalities of Vilnius and
Kaunas, and road users
Poverty Category:          Not Applicable
Amount:                   US$19.0 million
Terms:                     Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, at standard
LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency
loans.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed balances beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Onlending Terms:          On-lending terms to the Lithuanian Road Administration and the
Municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas will be on the same basis as the
terms paid by the Government
Financing Plan:           See Table 4.2
Economic Rate of Return:    Overall Economic Rate of Return is approximately 57 percent
Project ID Number:        LT-PA-8551
Map:                      IBRD 28033






Economic Background and the Transport Sector
LITHUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Overview
1.1    Lithuania, with a population of 3.7 million people and GDP per capita of US$ 2050 in 1995,
is the largest of the Baltic countries, with a territory of 65,200 square miles. Since its independence
in March 1990, Lithuania has shown its commitment to both stabilization and structural reforms as
the first independent republic of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). It has adopted policies such as
monetary discipline and currency reform, decreasing energy subsidies, privatization, and has initiated
social assistance reform and financial sector restructuring. The benefits of previous and present
policies are becoming visible. Inflation has decreased from an annual rate of over 1020 percent in
1992 to 410 percent in 1993, 65 percent in 1994, and 31 percent in 1995, while real GDP has grown
slightly in 1994 and 1995.
1.2   The Bank's overall objective is to support Lithuania's efforts to accelerate structural reforms
and to undertake efficient investments in high priority sectors. This objective will be pursued through
a combination of lending operations, analytical sector work, and aid coordination. It is now
appropriate for the Bank to support Lithuania's transport infrastructure since the economy is at a stage
in the transition process where substantial public investments are required to overcome the backlog of
deferred maintenance and to reorient the infrastructure sector to meet the new demands of private
production and trade. Analytical work by the Bank has assisted the Government in formulating and
implementing a sound public investment program, in which transport sector infrastructure and
privatization have been identified as priority areas.
B. Overview of the Transport Sector
1.3    Overall, Lithuania has a relatively good road infrastructure, along with the physical
infrastructure for the other parts of the transport system (maritime, railways, and aviation). The
motorways are of high geometric standard but not always with a corresponding pavement standard.
Substantial sections of main roads have narrow carriageways, requiring widening and strengthening as
the heavy weight traffic increases. The gravel roads often have a poor surface standard caused by
poor materials and insufficient maintenance.
1.4    While Lithuania's transport infrastructure is basically adequate, it suffers from low levels of
maintenance, primarily due to the constrained fiscal resources available during recent years. The
physical infrastructure is deteriorating and there is a growing backlog of deferred maintenance. Many
sections of the road network are already in a critical stage and will fail unless they are given adequate
maintenance and strengthening. Many bridges suffer from no maintenance, some to the extent that
their structural soundness is in doubt. A similar situation exists in the cities of Vilnius and Kaunas,
where due to the lack of funds, periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of streets have been postponed
for the last four to five years, and consequently the urban infrastructure is rapidly deteriorating.
Major expenditures on maintenance and rehabilitation are thus required to prevent further



2                                               Economic Background and the Transport Sector
deterioration of the capital stock, to avoid the need for costly reconstruction later, and to keep vehicle
operating costs at a reasonable level. Recognizing the problem, the Government has already obtained
a loan from EBRD for improvements in the transport sector (see para. 2.17), but the project will only
address a small part of the deferred maintenance needs of the road network.



The Highway Sub-Sector                                                              3
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
2.1   Public Roads. The total road network in Lithuania is about 45,000 km. The roads owned
and maintained by the national Government include 21,109 kmn of the main roads in the country,
10,493 km of which are paved. These national roads are divided into three categories: Highways
(1,444 km), Regional roads (3,408 kam), and District roads (16,257 kcm). The Highways include 376
km of European standard motorways serving the highest density routes (Vilnius-Kaunas-Klaipeda and
Vilnius-Panevezys). The two main road corridors of international significance are Klaipeda-Kaunas-
Vilnius-Minsk and Tallinn-Riga-Kaunas-Warsaw, known as Via-Baltica. The system also includes
1477 bridges, 28 of which are wooden.
Table 2.1: National Road Network
Road Category               Paved           G eravl         Total
Highways (Magistraliniai)            1,444             0             1,444
Regional Roads (Krasto)              3,292            116            3,408
District Roads (Rajoniniai)          5,757           10,500          16,257
Total                               10,493           10,616          21,109
2.2   Paved Roads. The paved roads in the national road network have the following types of
surfaces:
Asphalt-concrete   55%
Asphalt-macadamn   44%
Cement-concrete      1 %
2.3    Other roads. About 10,000 km of municipal roads and about 14,000 km of other roads are
not included in the national road network, most of which have gravel surfaces. The non-municipal
roads used to be the responsibility of state enterprises, farms, cooperatives, but most of them have
now become the responsibility of local governments that in many cases lack the financial and
technical capacity to maintain them. The issues related to the maintenance of these roads have not yet
been addressed, and even the basic information regarding their location, lengths, and conditions is not
well established.
2.4    Urban Infrastructure. The poor condition of urban infrastructure is due primarily to the
shortage of funds, although the lack of quality control during construction and outdated road
maintenance machinery also contribute to rapid deterioration of the roads and increasing wear and tear
on vehicles. The responsibility for planning, programming and scheduling of maintenance for urban
roads lies with the Departnents of Civil Works at the City Municipalities, but most of the funds for
urban infrastructure come from the Central Govermment. At this time, a substantial part of the
municipal street network, for example about 60 percent in Vilnius, is in critical condition and needs



4                                                                 The Highway Sub-Sector
periodic maintenance or rehabilitation. The condition of the infrastructure is having an adverse effect
on the operating costs of vehicles, with a consequent increase in the operating costs of both public and
private transport.
2.5   Traffic. The average daily traffic for the main roads is based on continuous traffic counts. In
1995 the ADT ranged from 10,500 vehicles per day near Vilnius, 13,300 vehicles per day near
Kaunas and 5,300 vehicles per day near Panevezys, with over 13,300 vehicles per day on some
sections of the main roads. Traffic figures are generally lower for the rest of the national road
network, and traffic is very light for most of the local roads. The 1995 ADT of 13,300 vehicles per
day on the East-West Highway near Kaunas compares with an ADT of about 5,000 vehicles per day
for the same section in 1993, reflecting the apparent rapid increase in economic activity that is taking
place in the country. Much of the increase in traffic is for trucking, in some cases with heavy axle
loads for which the roads were not built.
2.6    Adequacy of the Road Network. The road density is 0.32 km/sq kIn, twice the density of
Hungary and nearly four tirnes that of Poland. In relation to population, the density is 54
inhabitant/sq km, which is about 50 to 75 percent that of the Nordic countries, but per capita car
ownership is only about one-third as high despite quite rapid growth since 1989 (see Table 2.2).
Therefore, the overall road density appears to be adequate.
Table 2.2: Number of Passenger Cars
Year  ~     ITotal (000)                      Per 1,000 inhabitants
1989                         438                          118
1990                         478                          128
1991                         511                          136
1992                         543                          145
1993                         592                          159
1994                         654                          176
1995                         704                          189
2.7    Road Conditions. Under the Government's stringent stabilization program aimed at reducing
inflation, the LRA's 1994 budget was reduced in real terms to less than one-fourth of the 1988 level
(see para. 2.22). Even the budgeted amount was not made available to the LRA until after the end of
the fiscal year, since funds are only released on a monthly basis depending upon actual revenue
collections. Under these conditions LRA had to cut back on its pavement maintenance operations in
1994 even more than in 1993. The strategy that LRA adopted was virtually to eliminate new
construction and paving operations, to cut back on surface overlays, and to maintain the maximnum
possible surface dressings and spot repairs. This strategy has kept most pavement surfaces in
reasonably good condition, but with an increase in roughness and the progression of rutting for the



The Highway Sub-Sector                                                                    5
more heavily travelled parts of the road network. It has also built up a considerable backlog of
maintenance that will need to be done in addition to the annual requirements that will accrue in each
future year.
B. Road Safety
2.8    The road safety situation in Lithuania is poor by international standards, with 1,094 fatalities
in 1991 (2.9 per 10,000 population), falling to 779 in 1992 as traffic declined with the economic
slowdown but rising again in 1993 as traffic increased. This level of fatalities is comparable to
Estonia and Latvia, but is one and one-half to three times higher than in other countries with a
comparable level of motorization such as Malaysia, Greece, Ireland, Argentina, and Uruguay. The
decline in the rate of fatalities in 1994 and 1995 is primarily the result of the Government's decision
to make the use of seatbelts mandatory. Road accidents will likely increase again as economic
activity accelerates unless road safety is radically improved.
Table 2.3: Traffic Accidents on Public Roads and Streets
Fatalities         Fatalities per 10,000
I _________________ _                        _population
1989                    942                      2.5
1990                    933                      2.5
1991                    1,093                    2.9
1992                    779                      2.1
1993                    883                      2.4
1994                    764                      2.0
1995                    671                      1.8
2.9    Several road safety studies made in other countries have found that irnprovements in road
safety depend on the concerted actions of many agencies working together. With this objective in
mind, the Government in Lithuania established a Road Safety Commission in July 1994, chaired by
the Minister of Transport. The Comrnmission members include the Deputy Ministers and other officials
responsible for traffic safety within relevant ministries and municipalities, e.g. the Ministry of Internal
Affairs, the Ministry of Education, and the cities of Vilnius and Kaunas. The Commission receives
staff support from the Department of Environmental Protection and Road Traffic Safety (DERS) in
the Ministry of Transport, which has drawn up a draft National Road Safety Plan and road safety
legislation for submission to the Parliamnent. However, a lack of staff experienced in traffic safety
issues, enforcement of traffic regulations, necessary equipment and a critical lack of funds to
implement physical improvements presently hampers all traffic safety activities. Another inhibition to
improved road safety is a general lack of public awareness about the problem.



6                                                               The Highway Sub-Sector
C. Highway Orgnization
2.10   The Lithuanian Road Administration (LRA), which has responsibility for the maintenance and
construction for the national road network, operates under the authority of the Ministry of Transport.
After Independence in 1990, the LRA, which had consisted of an array of publicly owned design,
maintenance and construction companies, went through a massive reduction in staff (from 12,000 to
6,000) under the pressures of a reduced budget and the privatization of 12 of the road and bridge
construction companies and some of the design institutes. From 1993 until mid-1995, LRA was
composed of a central administrative office and 42 District Offices that were responsible for carrying
out both routine and periodic road maintenance. The LRA central administrative office was and still
is responsible for the following functions relating to the national road network:
i.    overall planning for road construction and
maintenance;
ii.   road and bridge standards and specifications; and
iii.   supervision of road construction and maintenance.
The present internal organization of LRA is shown in Annex A.
2.11   Each bistrict Office had an equipment pool, a storage and spare parts depot and an equipment
repair facility. Starting in mid-1995, LRA reduced the number of District Offices by combining 38
of them into ten Regional Road Administrations that will handle the routine and winter maintenance
for the ten Regions of the country and one Administration that is responsible for the routine and
winter maintenance of the major highways. The remaining four District Offices will be reorganized
into State Joint Stock Companies that will remain public corporations for the time being, but are
expected to function as construction companies without subsidies and to obtain their revenues from
work obtained on contract to public or private entities. These four companies are to be privatized in
1997.
2.12   Eguipment. The LRA and its district offices had the following mnajor equipment in operating
condition in 1994:
Asphalt plants      53
Pavers              40
Motor Graders       273
Bitumen Spreaders    42
Mobil Cranes         63
Bitumen Tanks        22
Bulldozers          154
Excavators          239
Lorries             471
Light Cars          126
Water Tanks          52
Rollers             213
Front End Loaders    87
Snow Blowers        21



The Highway Sub-Sector                                                                  7
Scrapers               5
Sand Spreaders       365
Tractors             430
Most of this equipment is old and of poor design, requiring extensive maintenance and in some cases
providing poor results. LRA has privatized about 70 percent of its asphalt mixing plants.
2.13 Personnel. Currently, LRA has 60 staff members in its headquarters in Vilnius, with the
number of staff limited by Executive Decree and by a budget that specifies the level for the LRA
Administrative Office separately from the rest of the LRA budget. There were about 100 to 150
employees in each District Office before the reduction in the number of organizations responsible for
routine and winter maintenance as described in para. 2.11. The level of the staffs of the successor
organizations have been increased to reflect the increased size of the road networks under their
responsibility. The result of these various organizational changes has been a further reduction in the
total staff of LRA to about 4200 persons.
2.14   LRA personnel appear to be competently trained in basic engineering skills. However, the
engineering staff has been isolated from the advances in road techniques developed in the Western
economies over the past fifty years. Also, at the time of Independence, there was a general lack of
awareness on the part of LRA's staff of the value of and techniques for using cost analysis as a basis
for making choices regarding pavement management strategies, materials and equipment, although
this is now changing through increasing contact with Western road institutions through aid-financed
technical assistance, seminars and travel grants. For example, extensive assistance has been provided
by EU-Phare for a program of institutional support including a study of LRA's organizational
structure. Support to develop a road data bank and a Pavement Management System (PMS) has been
provided by Sweden. The Danish Government is providing assistance in procurement practices,
preparation of bidding documents, contract supervision, and bridge repair management.
2.15   Economic Evaluation. Pavement Research and Testing and Engineering Design. LRA has a
close working relationship with the Transport and Road Research Istitute (TRR1), an independent
state-owned institution that carries out highway surveys, feasibility studies, and bridge inspections for
LRA. TRRI relies entirely on fees and contracts from the work that it performs for its revenues.
LRA also has a close working relationship with another state- owned institution called Problematica
that performs testing on materials and pavements samples, assists LRA in paveinent design, and
carries out road pavement research. Problematica is paid by LRA on the basis of the work that it
performs, and it also does testing on a fee basis for other state-owned and private institutions and
companies. It has established good contacts with Western sources of information, and is current on
the latest road pavement technology. A third organization, Kelprojektas, is a privatized former state
design institute that carries out road design, including the preparation of specifications and bidding
documents for LRA on a fee basis. While TRRI, Problematica and Kelprojektas all appear to be
competent organizations that work closely with LRA, there appears to be a lack of coordination
between the four organizations, which limits their effectiveness in establishing cost-effective pavement
design strategies.
2.16   Performance Level. On the whole, LRA has performed competently in the past judging from
the condition of the road networks as well as by its level of technical skills and knowledge, and
appears to operate at a high level of professionalism. The constraints on its performance have been



8                                                                The Highway Sub-Sector
those imposed by restrictive budgets during the past several years, by LRA's lack of access to modem
highway maintenance technology, and by the need in the past to rely on raw materials and equipment
that were generally of poor quality.
2.17   Municipal Road Organizations. The responsibility for planning, programming and scheduling
of maintenance for urban roads lies with the Departments of Civil Works at the city municipalities,
with the physical work usually carried out by the municipalities' own staffs. Most of the funds for
urban infrastructure, however, come from the Central Government. In 1995, approximately 23
million Litas (US$6 million) was spent in Vilnius, Kaunas, and Siaulai. This amount represents only
about 25 to 50 percent of the budget required to maintain the network at an appropriate service level.
The staffs of the Departments of Civil Works include competent engineers who have successfully
carried out the maintenance of the city streets in the past on a force account basis. They have begun
to use contracting procedures for some of their periodic maintenance requirements during the last few
years. However, they are not yet familiar with the use of economic analysis for deciding which
streets to repair and what level of repair to carry out, or with contracting based on competitive
bidding procedures, contract management, and quality control of the contractors' work.
2.18   Relationship with EBRD Project Activities. There is an EBRD project presently under
implementation that includes 800 km of surface dressing and 72 km of overlays as well as one
municipal bypass, at a total project cost of US$12 million. Implementation of the project, originally
scheduled to begin in 1994, was delayed because of cross-conditionality with a co-financier, but is
now under way. This project will not meet all of Lithuania's deferred maintenance requirements, but
will help LRA become familiar with multi-lateral bank lending and procurement practices.
2.19   Another EBRD-supported project, to be co-financed by JEXIM and the European Investment
Bank, is under preparation. It will finance improvements of the part of the Lithuanian road network
that is included in Via Baltica, a North-South route that links Helsinki with Poland and Germany
through the Baltic countries. This project, at a total cost of US$ 64.2 million, is expected to be
processed on the same time schedule as the proposed Highway Project. There has been a careful
assessment of the timing, work program and financial requirements of the two EBRD-financed
projects to assure that they complement each other and that the combined impact on the LRA budget
and staff is manageable.
D. Highway Maintenance Planning and Budgeting
2.20   Planning and Expenditure Procedures. Prior to independence, the predecessor organization to
the LRA obtained its budget from the central government in Moscow. Traditionally 20 year road
development programs were prepared and updated every five years. Since independence, budgets are
requested through the MT to the Ministry of Finance on an annual basis. Major projects are
submitted with a separate justification and reviewed in the context of an overall Public Expenditure
Program. Once approved by the Parliament, the annual budget is released in quarterly (and
sometimes monthly) tranches based on the actual collection of revenues during the year. This
procedure is necessitated by the fact that the value of the Lithuanian Lita (LT), which was introduced
in June/July 1993, is controlled by a currency board arrangement under which Litas are only issued
against net inflows of hard currency. This system, which is excellent for exercising fiscal and



The Highway Sub-Sector                                                                9
monetary discipline, nevertheless makes it difficult for LRA to plan and execute its annual program
since the actual resources available to it are subject to change.
2.21   Another characteristic of the Lithuanian highway maintenance program is related to the
weather conditions. The construction season during which bitumen products can be applied for
surface dressings and overlays is generally limited to the May through Septemnber period because of
the cold climate. Somewhat balancing the sunmmer workload, the winter season requires snow
clearing and salt spreading in order to keep the roads safe and open to traffic. However, this work is
irregular and difficult to plan because of the unpredictability of the snowfall and icing.
2.22   Budget Levels. As mentioned earlier, budgets have been substantially reduced from the
anounts made available prior to Independence. LRA's actual budget in constant prices for road
naintenance and construction since 1988, as calculated by LRA, has been as follows:
Table 2.4: LRA Annual Budjet
(million Litas) in 1993 prices
1988      1989      1990       1991       1992       1993      1994       199S
l  390    363        354        259       197        106.4       98       106
Thus inflation caused a reduction in LRA's 1994 budget when measured in constant prices to about 25
percent of the 1988 level. Some of this decrease was absorbed by a reduction in real average wages,
with the average monthly pay for LRA employees falling to the equivalent of about US$120 per
month. During 1995, wages for LRA's employees were increased substantially, to an average level
of about USS250 per month for professional staff, and the LRA budget was increased to 136 million
litas. As of January 1, 1996, a new schedule of road user charges went into effect that is expected to
provide 220 million litas for LRA's budget in 1996. This is equal to about 0.72 percent of GDP
compared to the 1.0 to 1.2 percent of GDP that is considered as a norm for road maintenance costs in
Western countries.
2.23   The periodic maintenance and rehabilitation accomplished with the LRA budget allocations in
the past have been as follows:



10                                                               The Highway Sub-Sector
Table 2.5: Work Performed
Surface Dressings, Overlays, and Rehabilitation
(km)                                           l
1990     1991      1992     1993     1994    1995
Surface dressing (& related         928      1015     1215      787      800      658
maintenance)                                                                              l
Overlays (inc. remixing &            92       146       76       80       45      118
rehabilitation)
New asphalt pavement (new, or in    170       218       73      101        6       38
place of gravel)
Regraveling                        1047       504      125      131      140      166
2.24   Comparisons of past budget levels, work performed, and the need for future financing for
maintenance of the road network is made complicated by the difficulty in adjusting the exchange rates
on a realistic basis. Also, the relationship between the budgets and the work accomplished was
affected by other factors that must be kept in mind when making projections of future costs and
requirements. First, the real cost of equipment was minimal during the years right after Independence
since very little new equipment was purchased during this period. Second, bitumen, aggregate and
fuel were imported from Russia at subsidized prices prior to Independence, which makes comparisons
difficult. Third, the compression in wages during the post-Independence period reduced the average
cost of labor to a level that was not sustainable over the long run, and has since been substantially
adjusted as noted in para. 2.21.
E. Road User Charges
2.25   After Independence the Government established a Road Fund, financed by a tax on industry
revenues and a portion of the excise taxes on petrol, diesel fuel and lubricants. However, revenues to
the Fund went to the Ministry of Finance rather than to the road maintenance organizations, and the
Ministry then made some portion of the income to the Road Fund plus an allocation from general
Government revenues available to LRA and the larger municipalities as part of the annual budget
process. In 1995, a new Road Fund Law was passed, and subsequently amended on March 28, 1996,
that provides for increased tax rates effective as of January 1, 1996, with 80 percent of the funds to
be made available to LRA and the other 20 percent to the eleven largest municipalities, for road and
street maintenance. The income to the Road Fund now includes the industry tax as before, 15 percent
of the fuel and lubricant excise taxes, truck licensing taxes, and a transit tax on truck traffic and on
loads in excess of permissible limits. A provision also calls for the set-aside of 1 percent of the
Road Fund income, to be taken from the LRA share, for a special Road Traffic Safety Fund, to be
administered by the Ministry of Transport. Finally, the Law also provides that the industry revenue
tax will gradually be phased out over the next four years and will be replaced by an increasing share



The Highway Sub-Sector                                                               11
of the revenues from the fuel excise taxes (from the present 15 percent to 50 percent).
2.26   The net effect of the new Law is to provide an imnmediate increase in the funds available to
the LRA in 1996, from the 139 million Litas in 1995 to an estimated 220 million Litas in 1996, and a
comparable increase in the funds available to the Municipalities for street maintenance. Further, the
growth of the economy and the shift from the industry tax to a larger share of the fuel excise taxes is
expected to provide for a significant increase in the LRA and Municipal budgets each year for the
next five years. No exact estimates are available at this time, but the tentative estimates that have
been made are very encouraging as to the possible levels of income that will be available. Since the
existing law could be changed at any timne, an agreement was reached during negotiations that
provides for the possibility of suspension of disbursements in the event of a change that adversely
affects LRA's ability to fulfill its functions of maintaining the road network (see para. 6.1 (i)).
2.27   The new law represents important progress toward a rational and appropriate form of road
user charges. It eliminates the use of the general tax on corporate revenues, which have no direct
link to road use, with the principle dependence on fuel taxes, which are expected to account for over
half of the income to the Road Fund in the year 2000. The law could be improved, however, in a
number of respects. First, there is no registration tax on personnel vehicles, since a provision to this
effect was rejected by the Parliament, which could provide substantial additional income to the Fund.
Also, the penalty for overloads does not adequately reflect the exponentially increasing cost of
damage that these loads inflict on the pavements as the loads are increased. Also, while the present
law will generate substantially greater income than has been available to the road maintenance
organizations since Independence, no careful study has been made of the projected income from the
present tax provisions in the new law or the optimum amount of funds required for road maintenance,
including the amounts needed to reduce the considerable backlog of deferred maintenance that has
accumulated during the years of inadequate budgets (see paras. 4.8 and 4.15).
F. Design and Construcion
2.28   The design standards have been those used by the former Soviet Union, but after a recent
review by the LRA, Lithuanian standards based mainly on the German standards (DIN) have been
established. The geometric standards of the existing roads are generally adequate although some
roads have narrow carriageways that will need to be widened and strengthened when road traffic,
especially heavy vehicles, increases. Much of the main and basic road network has gravel shoulders,
which over time will need to be improved.
G. Environmental Procedur  and Issues
2.29   The central environmental authority in Lithuania is the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
The Ministry sets limits for use of natural resources, determines environmental standards and gives
permits for the discharge of pollutants. It also establishes the procedure for, organizes and
implements Environmental Impact Assessments, sets conditions for the approval of projects so that
they will conform with enviromnental requirements, and monitors environmental compliance.
Lithuania's environmental standards, which became effective in January 1992, establish limits for the
discharge of pollutants. These standards apply to the operation of all private and public enterprises
including the asphalt plants that serve the road construction and maintenance industry. At the time of



12                                                               The Highway Sub-Sector
Independence, most of LRA's asphalt plants were not equipped with efficient production and emission
control systems, and disposal of waste materials from road construction operations was not carefully
controlled. However, these operations are now expected to comply with the new rules and
regulations. On the positive side, LRA's periodic maintenance operations contribute positively to the
enviromnent since this work applies to already existing structures that do not generate new
environmental problems, while the maintenance works result in reduced fuel consumption and safer
roads.



The Bank's Experience and Strategy                                                   13
III. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY
A. Bank Lending to Lithuania
3.1     The first Bank lending operation with Lithuania since it joined the World Bank in 1991 was
a Rehabilitation Loan for US$60 million equivalent to finance imports of materials, spare parts and
equipment, approved on October 22,1992 and recently completed. Loan processing and
implementation proceeded expeditiously, and the loan proceeds were fully utilized. In addition, the
Bank has approved a US$26.4 million Power Rehabilitation Loan, a US$7.0 million Klaipeda
Enviromnent Loan, a US$25 million Enterprise and Financial Sector Loan, a US$6.2 million Siauliai
Environmental Loan, a US$30 million Private Agriculture Development Loan, a US$5.9 million
Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration Loan and a US$10.0 million Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot
Project.
B. Country Assistance Strategy
3.2   The main objective of the Bank's strategy for Lithuania, as outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy document dated November 1, 1994, is to support Lithuania's accelerated economic
transformation toward a market system and the recovery of output and export growth and living
standards through reforms in three key areas, including the policy and institutional environment for
private investment, strengthening of financial institutions, and reorientation of the social safety net,
public services, infrastructure and the energy sector. The Bank will support these efforts through its
lending, economic and sector work. It has assisted the Government in formulating and implementing
a sound public investment program that is consistent with this strategy through a Public Expenditure
Review. The Bank is also assisting with aid coordination, including the mobilization of cofinancing
for Bank-financed investment projects.
3.3    Assistance to maintain and upgrade Lithuania's infrastructure such as roads, airports,
telecommunications, and ports is a critical factor in the encouragement of increased local and foreign
private investment. While Lithuania's overall physical infrastructure is well developed, much of it is
in urgent need of modernization and repair. Since Independence, there has been a declining level of
resources for maintenance of the road network, with a consequent buildup of deferred maintenance.
Thus a high priority for the Government and the Bank is to channel additional external resources to
help meet the country's maintenance requirements while the country's revenue base is being
reestablished, in order to prevent the need for much more expensive reconstruction in the future.
C. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects in the Highway Sector
3.4   The proposed project will be the Bank's first highway loan in Lithuania. However, the Bank
has had considerable experience in financing highway projects in other parts of the world, including
Eastern Europe, and specifically in the Russian Federation, Estonia and Armenia during the past two
years.
3.5    Much of the Bank's lending for highway operations in other parts of the world was for road
construction up to about 1980. However, the road building boom of the 1960's and 1970's created an



14                                                      The Bank's Experience and Strategy
infrastructure that began to deteriorate rapidly in the late 1970's. Road networks had expanded much
faster than the corresponding maintenance budgets and institutional capacity to maintain them. The
serious magnitude of the problem was demonstrated in a policy study undertaken by the World Bank
in 1987. The study determined that one quarter of the paved roads and one third of the unpaved
roads required reconstruction, and another 40 percent of the paved roads required strengthening. If
the countries did not improve the maintenance of their roads, the eventual cost could easily increase
by two or three times, with serious implications for the cost to road users.
3.6    Concerned with this growing backlog of road maintenance in borrowing countries, the Bank
adopted many of the recommendations of the study in its sector and investment work. These
included: (a) improvement in road planning and programming, including more reliable information
and management methods and the application of economic criteria, (b) strengthening and reforn of
institutional performance, particularly by contracting out more maintenance activities to the private
sector, (c) reallocation of resources to balance construction and maintenance with increased allocation
of expenditures to reduce the maintenance backlog, and (d) improving the financing of roads,
particularly by the adoption of rational road user charge systems. The situation in Lithuania parallels
this worldwide experience, with a well developed road network suffering from lack of maintenance,
and these lessons have been applied in the design of the Highway Project.
D. Highway Sector Strategy for Lithuania
3.7    The document entitled "National Program for Transport Development of the Republic of
Lithuania", issued by the Ministry of Transport in 1993, sets forth the Government's policies
regarding the transport sector. The principal emphasis of this document is on the need to integrate
the Lithuanian transport system into the European transport network on a flexible basis that is
responsive to the narket demands of an evolving economic system. Emphasis will also be placed on
ensuring equal rights for all entrepreneurs, creating conditions for reasonable competition, and
demonopolizing and privatizing the state-owned transport entities. For the highway sub-sector, the
policy statement also recognizes the necessity of allocating the major share of the available financial
resources to road maintenance during the next several years in view of the constrained economic
situation, and of improving engineering design and construction techniques. In actual practice, the
LRA has already made considerable progress in utilizing the emerging private sector construction
industry in its road maintenance program, and at present all surface dressing and reconstruction work
is carried out on the basis of competitive bidding. As described previously, the Government has
already established a Road Fund designed to provide the resources needed to finance highway
maintenance, although the proceeds from this fund do not flow automatically to the road maintenance
organizations.
3.8    The Government's policy for the transport sector and highway sub-sector contain many
elements that are consistent with the Bank's views as enumerated in the study referred to in para. 3.6.
The challenge for the Government now is to translate its policy statement into an action program that
provides an adequate level of resources for road maintenance in the short run, that establishes a
reliable self-financing basis for future road maintenance based on appropriate user charges, that
expands competitive bidding procedures in a way that leads to the development of a viable private
sector construction industry, and that introduces modern and cost-effective planning, design and
materials into sector operations.



The Bank's Experience and Strategy                                                 15
3.9   The Bank's strategy for the highway sub-sector is to assist the Government in meeting this
challenge through a lending operation that would include support for expanded maintenance operations
for a limited period of time and introducing improvements in operational procedures and techniques.
This lending operation would also be combined with the resources of several other donors who would
join with the Bank in meeting these needs, which in turn would help to coordinate the various donor
activities in the sector. In the longer run, the Government is expected to be able to mobilize the
resources necessary to meet its recurrent maintenance requirements, and future Bank lending for road
transport would be directed to road strengthening and new construction.



16                                                                           The Project
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1   The overall objectives of the Highway Project are to assist the Government of Lithuania in
preserving its road network, and to improve the efficiency of Lithuania's road maintenance
operations. The specific objectives of the project are:
(i)    To expand the level, quality and efficiency of periodic maintenance for roads and
bridge repairs;
(ii)   To reduce vehicle operating costs and improve the environment in five towns by
completing bypasses, and to help preserve the urban infrastructure by financing an
expanded program of street improvements and maintenance for the cities of Vilnius
and Kaunas;
(iii)   To facilitate road financing by encouraging an improved system of road user
charges;
(iv)   To encourage and support the development of private road construction and
engineering industries; and
(v)   To improve road safety conditions in Lithuania.
4.2    These objectives would be carried out within the context of an expanding market economy
and within a policy framework designed to utilize Lithuania's strategic geographical position as a
transport corridor between several major production centers in neighboring countries. They are
consistent with the Bank's desire to support Lithuania's transition from a centrally planned economy
to one based on market choices and private sector operations by providing critical infrastructure to
meet the needs of the expanding private sector and through the development of the private
construction industry.
B. Project Description
4.3   The Highway Project would include a three year program of activities at a total cost of
US$45.0 million (net of duties and taxes) consisting of the following components:
(a)    Lithuanian Road Administration (US$26.5 mnillion)
(i)    Repaving of portions of the Regional Road Network including the
Vilnius-Klaipeda East-West Motorway, based on the results of detailed
pavement surveys, strength and crack failure investigations (US$12.0
million).
(ii)   Completion of partially constructed by-passes around five urban areas
(US$5.6 million).



The Project                                                                              17
(iii)   Bridge repairs for the main road network (US$3.0 million).
(iv)   A Road Safety Program consisting of technical support for the DERS
in the Ministry of Transport and for LRA, as well as financing for
civil works required to eliminate accident black spots and to improve
road markings, guard rails and other safety measures (US$5.0
million).
(iv)   Technical services to assist LRA in identifying the most economic
pavement design and maintenance strategies and in improving LRA's
management systems; assistance in procurement, supervision of
contracts and project accounting; training for private road construction
companies; a road network study; and a study of the existing Road
Fund Law, including a forecast of the optimum amount of financing
required for the most economic maintenance level for the national
road network and options for improving its provisions to provide for
self-sufficiency in meeting Lithuania's road maintenance
requirements (US$0.9 million).
(b)    Municipality of Vilnius (US$5.0).
(i)    Repaving and reconstruction of high priority streets and bridge
repairs.
(ii)    Technical support to assist the Municipality to handle procurement,
monitoring, project accounting and the supervision of the civil works
included in the project.
(c)    Municipality of Kaunas (US$5. 1 million).
(i)    Repaving and upgrading of streets needed to provide an inner-city by-
pass through the southeastern part of the city so as to relieve the
heavy flow of traffic through the city center.
(ii)    Technical support to assist the Municipality to handle procurement,
monitoring, project accounting and the supervision of the civil works
included in the project.
The project cost estimate also includes physical contingencies as well as price contingencies calculated
on the basis of estimated worldwide inflation for the foreign costs and estimated domestic inflation for
the local costs over the project period for a total of US$8.4 million.



18                                                                             The Project
C. Detailed Project Description
4.4    Repaving of portions of the Vilnius-Klaipeda East West Motorway and the Regional Road
Network would include an estimated 303 km of overlays or recycling in order to restore the
pavements to an acceptable level of roughness and strength, at a total estimated cost of US$12.0
million. Road sections to be repaired have been selected on the basis of a review of the entire
national road network, taking into account the importance of different classes of roads based on traffic
levels, as well as the periodic maintenance that has already been completed or is planned for 1996
from financing provided by the EBRD-supported project mentioned in para. 2.18 or from LRA's own
budget. Road condition surveys and economic evaluations were then carried out on the roads most
likely to need repairs, using the HDM-3 model to determine the pavement maintenance alternatives
and road sections that would produce the highest economic rates of return and Net Present Values
(NPVs). For each section of road, five different pavement maintenance alternatives were tested (see
Annex C). This evaluation was then used as a basis for selection of specific road sections for
inclusion in the project. Surveys will be repeated each year and the economic evaluations will be
recalculated to determine if the priorities have changed due to further road deterioration, which will
be used for the selection of the road sections for that year's work program. The detailed pavement
designs will be made based on a careful evaluation of the pavement conditions and the use of the most
economic pavement maintenance strategies that are available.
4.5    Completion of partially completed bv-passes will include the by-passes at Turzenai,
Vilkaviskis, Silute, Siauliai, and Daugai for an estimated total cost of US$5.6 million. These by-
passes, to be financed by EBRD, were selected after an economic evaluation that determined that each
had a satisfactory Economic kate of Retum and Net Present Value (NPV).
4.6    The Bridge component will include repair of about 10 bridges on the main road network that
are in critical need of maintenance, for an estimated cost of US$3.0 million. The economic rate of
return was calculated for after an economic evaluation of 20 bridges in need of repair that were
considered by LRA as of most importance to the road network, and those with the highest ERRs and
NPVs were selected for inclusion in the project. An expanded bridge inspection system is being
installed during project preparation with assistance from Norway and Denmark. The work will be
completed before project effectiveness.
4.7    A Road Safety program will include technical services to strengthen the road safety work of
the emerging road safety organizations, including (i) assisting DERS to develop a computerized
vehicle and drivers license register and road accident reporting and analyzing system to be integrated
with the corresponding systems operated by the police and customs, (ii) assisting DERS in developing
an accident location coding system for urban areas, (iii) assisting DERS and its counterpart
departments in other Ministries to develop plans for and initiate education for school children, traffic
safety information, driver training, review of legislation, and training of traffic police; (iv) assisting
LRA and the municipalities of Lithuania to develop traffic safety design standards for road and street
infrastructure including road signs and road markings; (v) providing training in the road safety aspects
of road and street planning, design, construction and maintenance works, and in executing road safety
audits, (vi) assisting LRA in analyzing accident black spots, and the subsequent prioritization and
design of traffic safety measures. It will also include a civil works component for works to eliminate
the most serious accident black spots, additional road markings, the improvement of road signs, and
the addition or improvement of guard rails. The Road Safety Program will have a total estimated cost
of US$5.0 million.



The Project                                                                           19
4.8   Technical Services to LRA will include an organizational review to find improved means for
coordinating the considerable knowledge and skills that are available in TRRI, Problemnatica, and
Kelprojektas in the task of analyzing the pavement problems, applying research results and economnic
analysis, and incorporating the conclusions into pavement design specifications and bidding documents
providing the most economic solutions for different road conditions. These services will also include
practical assistance in the application of the World Bank procurement procedures, and in establishing
appropriate contract supervision and quality control. Training will be provided to the construction
industry to familiarize the contractors with the World Bank bidding procedures, contract documents
and conditions, and to assist them in developing their skills and competitiveness as contractors. This
component will include a study of the country's road network to determine what kinds of roads should
be maintained by LRA and what other arrangements could be utilized for the maintenance of smaller
local roads, such as through the establishment of road user associations. Another study, financed by
the existing EBRD loan, is being carried out to determine possible improvements in the structure of
road user charges, as well as to determine what level of charges is required to optimize the
maintenance of the national road network (see para. 4.15). The total cost of this component, which is
described more fully in Annex J, is US$0.9 million.
4.9   The Municipality of Vilnius component will include the repaving of streets that are in urgent
need of attention as the result of several years of inadequate maintenance. The streets to be repaved
have been identified from a list established by visual inspection to be most in need of repair and then
selected through surveys and economic analysis carried out with the assistance of a foreign consultant.
This component will also include technical services to assist the Municipality to carry out the detailed
design, to issue tenders in accordance with World Bank procedures, and to assure the quality of the
work. All civil works will be carried out on a contract basis with the contractors selected on the
basis of competitive bidding.
4.10   The Municipality of Kaunas component will include the construction of a new link in the
street network that will facilitate the passage of vehicles over a route by-passing the city center, thus
relieving the flow of traffic through the most congested area of the city. The work will include the
construction of the approach roads to a new bridge that is under construction, which will generate
sizeable traffic benefits even before the completion of the bridge since these roads will coMect the
new road link to a main thoroughfare. The total estimated cost of this component is US$5.1 I million.
Technical assistance will be provided to assist the Municipal officials to carry out the work in
accordance with the requirements of the EBRD, which is providing financing for this component. All
civil works will be carried out on a contract basis with the contractors selected on the basis of
competitive bidding.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11   The estimated total cost of the project is US$45.0 million, net of taxes and duties, including
physical and price contingencies, with a foreign component of US$30.4 million, equivalent to 67.6
percent of project costs. Costs were estimated on the basis of December 1995 prices and include
physical contingencies of ten percent for materials, equipment and civil works, amounting to US$3.5
million. Price contingencies, amounting to US$4.9 million, are based on average forecasts of



20                                                                           The Project
inflation for foreign supplied components of 2.4 percent per annum and for local costs at the rate of
25 percent the first year, 15 percent the second year, and 10 percent the third year of the project.
The detailed estimated cost of the project is given in Annex B and is sumrnarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Costs (net of duties and taxes)
US$ million
Project Components          Local   |  Foreign          Total     Foreign as %
_______________________I   j           (_________   ~~of Total
Lithuanian Road Administration
(a) Repaving                    3.4           8.6          12.0         72%
(b) By-Passes                   1.6           4.0          5.6          71%
(c) Bridge Repairs              0.9           2.1          3.0          70%
(d) Road Safety Program         1.5           3.5          5.0          70%
(e) Technical Services                       0.9           0.9          100%
City of Vilnius                    1.5           3.5          5.0          70%
City of Kaunas                     1.3           3.8          5.1          75%
Total Base Cost (Dec 1995          10.2         26.4          36.6         72%
prices)
Physical Contingencies             0.9           2.6          3.5          74%
Price Contingencies                3.5           1.4          4.9          29%
TOTAL                              14.6         30.4          45.0         68%
The World Bank would finance US$ 19.0 million or 42 percent of total project costs, the EBRD
would finance US$ 14.1 million, EU-Phare would finance US$ 1.2 million equivalent, other donors
(Finland and Swedish, Norwegian and Netherlands Trust Funds) would finance US$ 0.7 million and
the Government of Lithuania would finance US$ 10.0 million and any duties and taxes that may apply
to the project. EU-Phare, Finland and the Trust Funds would provide financing for the Road Safety
Program, the technical services and training on a grant basis.
4.12   Loans from IBRD and EBRD would be made to the Government as represented by the
Ministry of Finance. The Ministry would pass on the funds to the beneficiaries (the IBRD proceeds
to the LRA and the Municipality of Vilnius, and the EBRD proceeds to the LRA and the Municipality
of Kaunas) through on-lending agreements at the same terms and conditions that the Government
receives from the IBRD and the EBRD. The IBRD would in turn enter into a Project Agreement
with the Municipality of Vilnius and the EBRD with the Municipality of Kaunas that specify the terms
and conditions that apply to each of them for their component of the project. The local contributions
for the project would be the responsibility of each Beneficiary, and could be taken from their share of



The Project                                                                            21
the Road Fund or from their general budgets. Assurances were received at negotiations that the
Govermnent and the Beneficiaries would make available the level of resources needed to finance their
respective shares of the project (see para. 6.1 (ii)). The Ministry of Finance has stated that projects
financed by International Agencies are now exempt from the VAT. In any event, if any taxes and
duties would apply, it would be the responsibility of the Beneficiaries to provide the financing. The
Beneficiaries would also be obliged by the Government to repay the Ministry of Finance either from
future Road Fund income or from their general budgets. Parliamentary approval is necessary after
the Loan and Project Agreements have been signed before the loan can be effective.
4.13   Financial Analysis. There is no adverse fiscal impact on the Ministry of Finance from either
the provision of counterpart funds for the project or from the repayments of the Bank loan, since both
of these will be the responsibility of the Benefiaries, as noted in para. 4.12. A review of the financial
impact on the Beneficiaries indicates that in the case of the LRA, its contribution to the project would
average the equivalent of US$2.8 million each year for three years, and interest and principal
repayments would increase to a level of US$3.1 million in the fourth year. In no year would the total
of the contributions and repayments exceed 8 percent of the LRA's 1996 budget, which should be
easily manageable, especially since the future budget levels are expected to increase by more than 10
percent per year as a result of the Road Fund Law passed this year (see paras. 2.25 and 2.26).
Furthermore, the resources to be made available by the LRA as counterpart funds are budget
resources that would have been used for the same purposes if the Loan did not exist (i.e. for periodic
road maintenance) and therefore LRA would not be required to forego financing of other activities in
order to participate in the project.
4.14   For the Municipalities of Vilrius and Kaunas, the situation is similar. The total of their
contributions to the project and the estimated interest charges and principal repayments would in no
case exceed 38 percent of their estimnated income from the Road Fund in 1996, and their provision of
counterpart funds would come from resources that would in any event be used for street maintenance
and rehabilitation. This percentage would be reduced in future years by the expected increases of the
Municipalities' income from the Road Fund, so that the amounts should be manageable for both
Municipalities.
4.15   Road User Charges Study. The study of the existing Road Fund Law, the future requirements
for road maintenance, and recommnendations for improvements of the existing schedule of charges is
being financed by EBRD. Assurances were received at negotiations that LRA will carry out a study
of (a) the required level of financing needed to maintain Lithuania's public road network; and (b) the
possible financing and collection mechanisms for road maintenance, in accordance with terms of
reference already agreed with EBRD (and acceptable to the Bank); will, by December 31, 1997,
review the results and recommendations of the study with the Bank, and by June 30, 1998, will
implement recommendations of the study agreed with the Bank and EBRD, including presentation to
Parliament of any amendments to the Road Fund Law (para. 6.1 (iii)).



22                                                                           The Project
4.16   The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Table 4.2: Financing Plan (net of duties and taxes)
USS million
i____ _  Local   |     Foreign            Total
World Bank              4.6              14.4              19.0
EBRD                     0               14.1              14.1
EU-Phare                 0                1.2              1.2
Other Donors             0                0.7              0.7
Govermment             10.0               0                10.0
TOTAL                  14.6              30.4              45.0
E. Implementation
4.17  Project coordination would be the responsibility of LRA, which has appointed a Project
Coordinator, assisted by a small staff, to serve as the primary person responsible for assuring that the
LRA components are implemented efficiently and on schedule, and for coordinating the inputs of the
cofinancing partners and the other Beneficiaries through the operation of a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) located in the LRA headquarters. The operating costs of the Project Coordinator and his
staff, including telephone calls, office supplies and project-related travel would be financed from
LRA's administrative budget. Assurances were received at negotiations that the Borrower will
maintain the PIU and shall operate it in accordance with implementation arrangements agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank (see para. 6.1 (iv)).
4.18  The Project Coordinator would be responsible for assuring that the Implementing Agencies
prepare annual work programs, financing plans and periodic reports of project progress. The annual
financing plans would include the level of financing needed for LRA and the Municipalities to
finance their shares of the project activities, and a projection of the sources of this financing. He
would arrange the training sessions for contractors, and arrange for audits of the project accounts.
He would also serve as liaison to the Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Finance for project
activities as well as to the Municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas, and would be the central point of
contact for all of the donors supporting the project. He would be responsible for assuring that LRA
sets targets for the repaving program, and that LRA adheres to the IBRD procurement guidelines.
Assurances were received at negotiations that the Borrower will cause the Municipality of Vilnius and
LRA, by November 1 and 15 respectively, to prepare annual work programs and financing plans for
the next year and to review these plans with the Bank before implementing them (see para. 6.1 (v)).
4.19   The project implementation schedule and performance monitoring indicators are given in
Annexes D and E. The schedule is based on the civil works being carried out in the 1997, 1998 and
1999 construction seasons, with some disbursements carrying over into 2000, and the training and
technical assistance components extending into 1999.



The Project                                                                          23
4.20   LRA has stated that it intends to use economic analysis as a basis for all of its investments
during the life of the project, and would only undertake investments with a positive NPV. In order to
be able to review LRA's evaluation process in this regard, assurances were received at negotiations
that by November 15 of each year LRA would submit to the Bank the results of its economic
evaluations for its proposed road maintenance and rehabilitation programs for the following year and
for all of LRA's investment projects, based on the methodologies established in the Lithuanian
Investment Manual and LRA's Pavement and Bridge Management Systems (see para. 6.1 (vi)), and
that it will only undertake investments with a positive NPV based on a 10 percent opportunity cost of
capital, and with priority given to investments with the highest ratios of NPV to investment costs (see
para. 6.1 (vii)).
F. Status of Cofinancing
4.21 Cofunanciers identified for the project include the EBRD, EU-Phare and Finland, plus support
from the Swedish, Netherlands and Norwegian Trust Funds. The EBRD Board of Directors has
already approved its financing. The EU-Phare financing would not be formally approved until early
1997, but there is verbal agreement between EU-Phare and the Government that this component
would receive priority treatment in the 1997 budget for Lithuania. The cofinanciers will be invited to
participate in supervision missions during project implementation. Denmark is providing consultant
services arranged as part of the preparation of the Highway Project but is being utilized in 1996 in
support of the first EBRD project. The Danish assistance will terminate at the end of this year, but
will nevertheless be useful in preparing the LRA staff for implementation of the Highway Project.
G. Procurement
4.22   The procurement arrangements over the project period are included in Annex F while Table
4.3 summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
The details of procurement arrangements are set forth in the Procurement Plan and Schedule in Annex
G. LRA will use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, and procurement procedures for IBRD
financed contracts will be in accordance with the January 1995 World Bank Procurement Guidelines.



24                                                                           The Project
Table 4,3: Summara of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Method
| Project Element                   ICB      NCB       Other   NBFt    Total Cost
1. Civil Works
a. overlays,recycling,reconstruction,    16.2  7.5              19.4       43.1
& bridges                       (12.7)     (6.1)            -            (18.8)
2. Equipment, goods
a. Road Signs                                          0.2'                0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
3. Consultancies and Training                                      1.7         1.7
TOTAL                                 16.2       7.5      0.2     21.1        45.0
(12.7)     (6.1)    (0.2)               (19.0)
Aol:untSRpamprnt eses are fiac  y te    oanxx~   xm~
a/ Non-Bak Financed
bl International Shopping
4.23   Goods. The procurement of goods would be limited to purchase of road signs and small
items needed in support of the Road Safety Program, for a total estimated amount of US$ 200,000.
These items or groups of items estimated to cost US$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$200,000, may be awarded under International Shopping.
4.24   Civil Works. There would be ten ICB contracts at an average of US$1,620,000 for an
accumulated estimate of US$16,200,000, with four for repaving on Regional Roads and East-West
Highway, two for bridge rehabilitation, two for black spot improvements and three for street
repaving. Other civil works contracts of less than US$500,000 per contract for overlay works, bridge
repairs, the improvement of accident black spots, and repaving of streets in the City of Vilnius would
follow the NCB procedure using the Sample Bidding Documents- Bidding Documents for
Procurement of Works-National Competitive Bidding (NCB) dated January 1995. Sections of roads
selected for overlays would be grouped into suitable contract packages. Each contract package would
be kept within one construction season. There would be around 21 NCB civil works contracts
financed jointly by IBRD and the Implementing Agencies, each contract valued at an average of
US$357,000 for an accumulated cost estimated at US$7.5 mnillion.
4.25   The introduction of competitive bidding procedures raises a number of issues that grow out of
the restructuring of force-account agencies and an infant industry. An anticipated area of difficulty is
the perceived inability for the newly established private firms to meet financial criteria. The
construction firms have their accounts audited for control purposes only, if at all. Their accounting
methodology does not always include western type depreciation of assets, and it might be difficult to
determine their credit-worthiness. The project would include training for the construction firms to
update their accounting systems and to facilitate international audits. The eligibility of the contractors



The Project                                                                          25
would be subject to their meeting the criteria outlined under clause 1.8(c) of the January 1995 World
Bank Procurement Guidelines. As described in para. 2.11, the Government is in the process of
privatizing some of the District Offices. These companies, along with the road construction
companies that have already been privatized, are expected to become the principal local road
contractors since they possess the equipment and expertise to carry out the work.
4.26   Prior Review. Prior review would apply to all ICB contracts and to the first two NCB
contracts for works for each implementing Agency, and is expected to include about 80 percent of
the total value of IBRD financed contracts. This level of review should be adequate to assure good
quality preparation.
4.27   LRA will have had experience in implementing this type of project through its involvement
with the first EBRD project. However, a limited amount of technical support would still be required
and will be provided under the project through grant financing from Finland and Sweden in such
areas as preparation of World Bank Standard bidding documents and procurement, project
management and supervision. The Project Launch Workshop referred to in paragraph 4.33 will be
held in October 1996 to provide guidance for the preparation of bidding documents for the first
construction season. The General Procurement Notice will be issued following appraisal and will be
updated annually thereafter.
4.28   Procurement information will be collected by the PIU and reported to IBRD as follows:
(a)   prompt reporting of bidding, bid evaluation results and contract award infornation;
and
(b)   quarterly reports indicating: (i) project progress and problems; (ii) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best estirnates for
physical and price contingencies; and (iii) revised schedules of procurement actions,
including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts.
H. Disbursements
4.29   Disbursements are expected to be completed in four years. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is shown in Annex H. The expected closing date is December 31, 2000.
4.30 The expenditures for contracts for goods valued at less than US$200,000 and for works
valued at less than US$350,000 would be reimbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE)
procedures. The supporting documentation for these contracts would not be sent to IBRD, but would
be retained by the borrower for inspection by supervision missions and by external auditors. All
other disbursements would be fully documented. The minimum size of applications for direct
payment and for the issuance of Special Comnmitments would be 20 percent of the amnount of the
deposit to the Special Account.
4.31   To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish Special Accounts in one of
the major commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD to cover IBRD's share of
expenditures. The Authorized Allocation to the LRA Special Account would be US$1,300,000 and
the Municipality of Vilnius Special Account would be US$ 600,000, representing about one month of



26                                                                           The Project
average expenditures made through the Special Accounts during the construction season. No initial
lower levels have been specified for the Special Accounts since these are the minimum amounts that
will be needed in view of the concentration of disbursements that are expected to take place during
the relatively short construction season. Applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts
would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs
earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank procedure as
described in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special
Accounts, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all replenishment
applications.
4.32   The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed on the following basis:
Table 4.4: Estimated Disbursements
Category                ? Amount of Credit    Percent of
(US$ million)     Expenditurea to be
lFinanced
1. Civil works
(a) LRA Repaving                       6.5                  75 %*
(b) LRA Bridge Repairs                 2.5
(c) Road Safety                        3.5
(d) Municipality of Vilnius           4.3
2. Equipment, materials & supplies        0.2               100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 75% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
5. Unallocated                            2.0
TOTAL                                     19.0
excluding VAT and other taxes and duties
I. Reporfing, Accounting and Auditing
4.33   The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related accounts
will be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual financial statements
of IBRD-financed components and for LRA's overall operations will be prepared in a format
acceptable to IBRD and audited in accordance with International Auditing Guidelines by suitably
qualified independent auditors acceptable to IBRD, and submitted to IBRD within six months of the
close of LRA's fuiancial year. Audits will also be carried out at the same time, and for
corresponding periods, in accordance with IBRI) guidelines, for SOEs against which disbursements



The Project                                                                          27
have been made or are due to be made out of the credit proceeds, and specific reference will be made
in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements.
4.34   Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by LRA and sent
to IBRD within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will include: (a) progress
achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key performance indicators,
including number of contracts awarded and length of roads rehabilitated, maintained; (b) work
programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total project; and (c) procurement
information as specified in para. 4.26 (b). The main purpose of the reports will be to provide LRA
timely and updated information on implementation of project components, highlighting issues and
problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on progress in resolving previous
recommendations. LRA will also prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in accordance
with IBRD guidelines and submit it to IBRD promptly after completion of the project but in any event
not later than six months after the credit closing date.
J. Project Supervision
4.35   Three Bank supervision visits to Lithuania each year, each staffed by a senior highway
engineer and such specialists as may be appropriate for each phase of the project (such as a
procurement expert or traffic safety specialist), would be required over the life of the project, each of
about one or two week duration. The total amount of supervision envisaged annually would be 18-24
staff weeks. A Project Launch Workshop would be held in October 1996 with instruction on Bank
Procurement Guidelines, disbursement procedures and reporting requirements. Subsequent missions
would review both physical progress and to what extent the project is achieving its stated objectives.
The Performance Monitoring Indicators shown in Annex E will be used to measure and report on
both of these aspects. Cofinanciers would be invited to participate in all supervision missions. A
schedule of supervision activities is included as Annex I. A mid-term review would be held not later
than November 1, 1998, to assess the effectiveness of the project arrangements, to review the
adequacy of road user charges, and for the reallocation of funds between project categories if
necessary. Assurances were received at negotiations to this effect ( pam. 6.1 (viii)).
K. Environmental Aspects
4.36   The periodic maintenance operations included in the project are not expected to generate any
significant environmental problems since work would be done on existing roadways, utilizing existing
quarries and asphalt plants. Since the environmental risks are limited, this project has been
designated as Category B, indicating that a full Environmental Assessment is not required. An
environmental review was carried out during project preparation and the results confirmed the above
assumptions. The review found that emissions from the asphalt plants that would be used in the
project are all within Lithuania's environmental standards. Environmental reviews had already been
carried out for the five By-Passes, and the minor mitigation measures recommended in those reports
have been included in the By-Pass designs. The consultant recommended that for road rehabilitation
of roads located in close proximity to watercourses, special care should be taken during construction
to avoid polluted run-off entering the water, which will be done. The project is expected to have
several positive environmental effects through reducing traffic congestion and pollution by comnpleting



28                                                                            The Project
selected city bypasses and the inner-city by-pass in Kaunas. The Executive Summary from the
consultant's report has been attached as Annex K.
L. Program Objective Categories
4.37   The project would contribute directly to the sustainable development of Lithuania by
preserving the road network, which is an important part of the country's essential infrastructure, and
by making Lithuania more competitive in world markets by reducing road transport costs. It would
also make a significant contribution to the development of the private sector in Lithuania through the
strengthening of the road construction industry.
M. Poverty Analysis
4.38   The introduction of private contracting for periodic maintenance would likely lead to higher
levels of income for the work force carrying out the work. At the same time, the project may lead to
lower levels of road maintenance employment overall than was the case before Independence as the
road maintenance operations become more efficient, but higher employment levels than in recent
years when the national budget was extremely restricted. The improved condition of the roads should
have a positive effect on the ability of rural people and small businesses to bring their products to
market, both by assuring access to markets and by reductions in transport costs. There will also be
an indirect impact on the poor by supporting improvements in the general economy through reduced
vehicle operating costs.
N. Participatory Approach
4.39   During project preparation, the World Bank preparation missions consulted extensively with
the managers and staff of LRA, TRRI, Problematica, contractors and the related Ministries in
discussions of the project methodology, the concepts of privatization and competitive bidding, and the
requirements of a market-based economic system. The project would continue the participatory
approach begun during preparation involving the important stakeholders in the road sector, the design
and research institutes, the Traffic Police and the various Ministries involved in the sector during
project implementation. The Government also consulted with road users, including the operators of
transport companies, when deciding gradually to phase out corporation revenue taxes while increasing
the excise tax on fuel as the principal source of income for the Road Fund (see para. 2.25).



Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability                                              29
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Project Benefits
5.1    The project would expand the capacity of LRA and the Municipality of Vilnius to carry out
periodic road maintenance of Lithuania's public road network during a three year period (1997-1999).
This would prolong the life of the highway system and reduce road maintenance costs by avoiding
costly rehabilitation and reconstruction. It would also improve road conditions, thus reducing vehicle
operating costs, which would in turn make Lithuania's productive sector more competitive. An
additional project benefit would be the experience that would be gained by the private construction
industry in carrying out road maintenance work on a competitive basis and at a higher technical
standard than in the past.
5.2    The bridge component would introduce proper repairs on Lithuania's bridges, where little
maintenance has been carried out since the bridges were constructed. The main benefit would be to
retain in full service bridges where vehicle weight restrictions already have been or soon will be
imposed, thereby avoiding the need to divert traffic to longer routes. The bridges selected for repair
represent a variety of common bridge types with problems that are typical for Lithuania. The in-
depth inspection, economic design of the repair, and the choice of construction materials will serve as
demonstration projects for future repairs on other bridges. Some of the bridges are already damaged
beyond economic repair, and the structures will be monitored to ensure safe traffic during their short
remaining service life. The By-Pass component would provide better transit around municipal areas,
thus reducing vehicle operating time as well as traffic congestion in the municipal areas.
5.3    The benefits of the Road Safety component will be to reduce the high accident rate in
Lithuania, with a saving in human lives, hospital costs, vehicle repair costs, and reduced productivity.
This will be achieved through the implementation of improved accident reporting systems, driver
safety education programs, improved cooperation between the various Goverinent agencies with
responsibilities for road safety, improved traffic signs and road markings, and through removal of
accident black spots. The activities have been selected to give the optimum short term benefits in the
form of reduced accidents at the same time as the long term activities are initiated at relatively low
cost. All technical services and the equipment provided to DERS will be financed from the EU-Phare
grant.
5.4    The Municipality of Kaunas component would provide an inner-city bypass of the city center,
thus reducing traffic congestion, and would also provide the approaches to a new bridge that is under
construction (although the benefits from this component have been calculated on the basis of the
inner-city bypass only since the financing for completion of the new bridge is not yet certain).
Economic benefits resulting from the Kaunas bypass were calculated to include time saving, reduction
in vehicle operating costs, reduction in accidents, and environmental benefits.
5.5    The Net Present Value and Internal Economic Rate of Return. Shadow pricing was not
considered necessary since the alternative opportunity allocations of labor in the existing slow growth
environment are not plentiful. Therefore, the current costs do not need to be adjusted to reflect
alternative opportunity costs. Road sections and bridges to be repaired were selected for inclusion in
the project from the possible alternatives by the methods described in para. 4.4 and Annex C. The
NPVs and ERRs for the various selected components are as follows:



30                                                  Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability
Table 5.1: Project Benefits
Project Component           Cost (US$ million)  NPV-10% cost of            ERR
l_______________ __________  capital (US$ million)                        (percent)   J
Repaving of the national road
network:
East-West Highway               6.0                  26.6               66.0
Regional Roads                  6.0                  7.4                38.2
By-Passes:
Turzenai                       0.8                   1.6                34.6
Vilkaviskis                     1.2                  0.8                17.5
Silute                         1.2                   2.5                32.1
Siauliai                        1.5                  0.6                14.9
Daugai                         0.4                   0.6                22.8
Bridge Repairs                     3.0                 171.4               108.0
Road Safety Program                5.0                                     55.6
l Municipality of Vilnius          5.0                  22.0               56.0
Municipality of Kaunas             5.6                  47.5               76.0
5.6   Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analyses were carried out based on alternative vehicle traffic
forecasts of high, medium and low projections of economic growth (or in some cases 4, 2 and 0
percent traffic growth) and on possible cost increases of 20 percent. The low traffic growth scenario
is not considered very likely given the recent encouraging growth of the Lithuania economy and the
perceived high rates of growth in vehicle traffic observed on some roads in the last two years. The
possibility of cost increases for civil works is, on the other hand, quite possible in view of the
continued increases in the cost of goods and services in Lithuania in recent years.
5.7   For the East-West Highway reRaving, if the cost of construction is increased by 20 percent,
the ERR is decreased from 66.0 percent to 55.8 percent. The rates of return were calculated on the
basis of a rate of traffic increase each year based on a projected medium rate of economic growth for
the economy; if the economy grows only at a low rate, with corresponding reduced traffic growth, the
rate of return on the East-West Highway repaving investment would be reduced from 66.0 percent to
60.1 percent. If both traffic increases at the low rate and the construction costs are increased by 20
percent, the ERR would be reduced from 66.0 percent to a still very acceptable 50.4 percent. NPVs



Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability                                            31
were calculated for the repaving component using an opportunity cost of capital of both 10 and 15
percent. The results on the basis of 15 percent were all positive but 31 percent lower than at 10
percent.
5.8   For the Regional Roads repaving, if construction costs are increased by 20 percent, the ERR
would be reduced from 38.2 percent to 30.2 percent, and if the traffic growth is only at the low rate,
the ERR would be reduced to 34.3 percent. If both the construction costs are increased 20 percent
and the traffic growth is at the low rate of increase, the ERR would be a still very acceptable 26.7
percent.
5.9   For the By-Passes, if the low growth scenario is used to make the economic evaluations, the
ERRs for each of the By-Passes would decrease by about 3.5 percent and the total NPV for this
component would decrease from US$6.1 million to US$3.9 million. If construction costs were
increased by 20 percent, the total NPV for the component would be reduced from US$6.1 million to
US$4.7 million. If both the traffic growth is reduced to the level of the low growth scenario and the
cost of construction is increased by 20 percent, the overall NPV for the component would be reduced
from US$6.1 million to US$2.5 million. In this last event, the NPVs for three of the by-passes
(Vilkaviskis, Siauliai and Daugai) would be reduced to the break-even point based on a 10 percent
opportunity cost of capital. Therefore, the costs and traffic projections for these by-passes will be
carefully reevaluated in the year when construction is to be carried out, and they will only be included
in the work program if there is a favorable forecast for achieving a positive NPV.
5.10   For the Municipality of Vilnius, the ERR and NPV were calculated on the basis of a traffic
growth rate of 2 percent per year. If the traffic growth rate were 0 instead, the NPV would be
reduced by about 20 percent, which would still be a very acceptable rate of return. For the
Municipality of Kaunas, the low traffic scenario would reduce the NPV of the investment by 12
percent, which would also be very acceptable. No sensitivity calculation was made for increased
construction costs, but the ERRs are sufficiently high that the results would still undoubtedly be
extremely favorable.
5.11  For the Bridge Repairs component, economic evaluation of 20 bridges considered most in
need of repairs was carried out. The 10 bridges with the highest ERRs and NPVs were selected for
inclusion in the project, for a total cost of US$ 7.8 million. The ERRs and NPVs were calculated on
the basis of a traffic growth rate of 2 percent per year. With a traffic growth of 0 percent, the ERR
would be reduced from 108 percent to 103 percent, and with an increase in construction costs of 20
percent, the ERR would be reduced from 108 percent to 101 percent, indicating that the component is
not very sensitive to changes in the assumptions on which the evaluation is based.
5.12   For the Road Safety component, an ERR was calculated from similar kinds of works carried
out in Finland, adjusted for costs and benefits at Lithuanian levels. The result, based on conservative
expectations considering that virtually no road safety improvements have been made in the past in
Lithuania, showed an ERR of 55.6 percent. An increase in construction costs of 20 percent would
decrease the ERR to 44.5 percent, and a change in the traffic projection would not affect the results
since this was not a variable in the calculation of benefits.
5.13  In summary, the economic returns on the proposed investments are generally extremely
favorable, and would not be much affected by possible moderate increases in construction costs or



32                                                    Project Benefits, Risks and Sustainability
decreases in traffic growth. In all likelihood, traffic growth would exceed the modest increases that
were used in the base calculations as the Lithuanian economy recovers from the unusually severe
recession that followed the breakup of the Soviet Union, producing even greater returns than forecast
above.
B. Project Risks
5.14   Project risks are considered moderate for the project because of the competence of the
implementing agencies and the fact that LRA has had recent experience with the implementation of a
foreign-financed project similar to the proposed Highway Project. The risks that appear to remain are
as follows:
Risk                                            Proposed Mitigation
Possible delays caused by the inexperience of   Technical support and training for the
the cities of Vilnius and Kaunas and the local   implementing institutions and training for the
construction industry with IBRD and EBRD        construction industry have been included in the
procurement guidelines and competitive          project, which should substantially reduce this
bidding procedures.                             risk.
Possible delays in the provision of the financial  The amounts of the local contributions are less
contributions of the participating institutions.  than the arnounts that are estimated to accrue
to the Beneficiaries through the Road Fund,
and therefore financing should be assured.
Possible overload for LRA's staff, which is     LRA is considering means by which it can
limited to not more than 60 persons, because    transfer some of its supervision staff to field
of the very intensive program of improvements    offices that will not count against its 60 person
included in the project.                        ceiling.
C. Project Sustainability
5.15   The Government has already enacted the legal basis for providing an expanding level of
resources for highway maintenance through the establishment of the Road Fund, with users fees that
will expand as the economy expands and the tax base increases, which would assure the sustainability
of periodic maintenance of the highway network. The efficiency improvements expected from the
technical inputs and training included in the project are likely to have a sustained impact on LRA's
future operations because LRA is a well-established, stable organization that can be expected to
absorb the improved systems into its pernanent operating procedures. Also, the development of the
private road construction industry is likely to have a lasting impact if LRA continues its present policy
of utilizing private companies for carrying out the periodic maintenance portion of its highway
maintenance program.



Agreements & Recomnmendations                                                        33
VI. AGREEMENTS & RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    Agreements Reached During Negotiations. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
the following points:
(i)    The Bank will have a right to suspend disbursements in the event that
the Road Fund Law is repealed or amended so as to adversely affect the
ability of LRA to effectively fulfill its functions of maintaining the road
network (see para 2.26).
(ii)   The Borrower and the Beneficiaries will make available each year during the
life of the project the level of resources needed to finance their respective
shares of project activities (see para. 4.12).
(iii) In order to assist in assuring an adequate and appropriate source of financing
for the maintenance of the road network, LRA will carry out a study of: (a)
the required level of financing needed to maintain Lithuania's public road
network; and (b) the possible financing and collection mechanisms for road
maintenance, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with EBRD; by
December 31, 1997, LRA will review the results and reconmmendations of the
study with the Bank, and by June 30, 1998, will implement recommendations
of the study agreed with the Bank and EBRD including presentation to
Parliament of any amendments to the Road Fund law (see para. 4.15).
(iv)   LRA will maintain the Project Implementation Unit and will operate it in
accordance with the implementation arrangements agreed between LRA and
IBRD (see para. 4.17).
(v)    By November 1 and 15 of each year during execution of the project, the
Municipality of Vilnius and LRA, respectively, will prepare annual work
programs and financing plans for the next calendar year for the work to be
carried out under the project, and will reach agreement on these programs
with IBRD before implementing them. The annual financing plans will
include financing needed for LRA and the Municipality to finance their shares
of project activities, and a projection of the sources of this financing (see
para. 4.18).
(vi)   By November 15 of each year during the execution of the project, LRA will
report to the Bank the results of economic evaluations of its proposed road
maintenance and rehabilitation programs for the following year, including
those not included in the project, and for all of LRA's investment projects,
based on the methodologies established in the Lithuanian Investment Manual
and LRA's Pavement and Bridge Management Systems (see para. 4.20).
(vii)  LRA will only undertake projects with a positive Net Present Value based on
an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent, with priority given to investments
with the highest ratios of NPV to investment costs (see para. 4.20).



34                                                        Agremes & Recommendations
(viii)  LRA and the Municipality of Vilnius will: (a) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to EBRD, the carrying out of
the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (b) review with
IBRD, by November 1, 1998, the progress made in the implementation of the
project; and will take all necessary measures to execute the actions identified
and agreed upon between IBRD and the Sub-Borrowers during such review.
(see para. 4.35).
6.2    Other Conditions. Conditions of effectiveness will be limited to the standard conditions.
For the component to be implemented by the Municipality of Vilnius, a condition of disbursements
will be the execution of an on-lending agreement with the Ministry of Finance.
6.3   Recommendation. Subject to the above, the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 19.0
million at the standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans with a
maturity of 17 years including 5 years of grace. The Borrower would be the Republic of Lithuania.



DIIIREC iOt (GENEUAI.
GIPflI RAts STRI4U MliS
'I'cl: 231161, fax 23136
DEP'     iJ :: tLUY FR   GEN I tA ;i  /                                                  ACCOUNTING DINISION
.,PRg.    ,    tHfz'    0',    ...................................'rEC INICAT  D                   CIORUFR'                                                            Iw,,JUfliIW1  l 2
_  ,;    -Ti1                                                                                                 ''                                                          ____________________________________.:.:j,_;.___':_i_.--_T_i:-_r- S sir 2 ~ r    | ~ ;  h    ?| Lco l,1 23 W 
_                   4.~{,      /~I'i,                  ,nf'.~                   . ''-                    ~''                             I                             FINANCE, PRICEMAND) TARIFF DSIVISIO.N
~                ~                                   2'                  TcI:    2 3 1~ 4 V~                     ~_____________________                              __________T____63    ____
IlOAD MAINTENANCE DIVISION                                                       1)U'U'TY?TF,CIN1CA1. lfl)UTCTQRt.                                               I.'C)RF.IGN RtELATIONS AND)
_    IIUII.DINC l)IVISION                                                                                                     J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INI'III)ICAE   DEIV(ISIO
Vytauias PiMICNIAS   *.'cl: 6367S2                           _1 ;                    _V:k
(;a.IItIlillas~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~vl-lll Vllt.ll 'G'.1:                                           2337(,
_  ECHANIZU'/TION DIVISION
Jtjouu KONDROTAS                                            ~~~~~~~~~ROAD I'ILANNING ANI)
Juewlo~KONDROCTAS                      1CI'd:6J55JI8                        _    O[lfRltY                                   .  ----_|                         H  Aoi,,U~~IANUPKAAKN                      'I'c: 633763
________________________________________                   CONSTR~~UCTIION D)IVISION                                                       -           N]
S)PAEWRK JANIJEVIU'00S                  Tl: 63579')
1                     |  EtSONNEI. ASSISTANT OF                                 j          -17
ENVItONMENT6ROT5ECDION SECTOR    631654   J                                           D IRECTOAL icNERAI.|
|hleinaM   lENR                         Tc1.:165                                                                         I |   ,i, inai KU  IENE  Tcl 633831
s     DIIUCTORUGENERAL
|ZaJANULUSRIENE                           T'el: 630625
E O   P NVISER       A         T
Ix,5uaniaBit  Irrls                      c1l: 63871    D1



Annex B
Page 1 of 2
LITHUANIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimate
._.________.USS   Thousand
Local       Foreign       Total
1. LRA
a. Repaving of E.W. Highway and Regional
Roads                                        3.4          8.6         12.0
b. By-passes                                   1.6          4.0          5.6
c. Bridge Repairs                              0.9          2.1          3.0
d. Road Safety Program                         1.5          3.5          5.0
e. Technical Services                           _           Q2Q
7.4         19.1         26.5
e. Contingencies                               3A 4         2
Sub Total                         10.8         21.9         32.7
2. City of Vilnius
a. Repaving of Streets                         1.5          3.5          5.0
b. Contingencies                               O 5            6           11
Sub Total                           2.0          4.1          6.1
3. City of Kaunas
a. City Street Improvements                    1.3          3.8          5.1
b. Contingencies                                            06            1 1
Sub Total                           1.8         4.4          6.2
Total                                14.6         30.4         45.0
32.4%        67.6%



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
LITHUANIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Finanding Plan
US$ Million
IBRD      EBRD       EU-       Other'     Gov't     Total
PHARE
1. LRA
a. Re-paving         6.0        3.1                            2.9       12.0
b. By-passes                    4.0                             1.6       5.6
c. Bridge Repairs    2.3                                       0.7        3.0
d. Road Safety       3.2                  1.0                  0.8        5.0
e. Technical
Services                                0.2       0.7                  0.9
f. Contingencies                2A                             L a        u
Subtotal       14.1       9.2        1.2       0.7        7.5       32.7
2. City of Vilnius
a. Repaving          4.0                                       1.0        5.0
b. Contingencies                -                              0          1-1
Subtotal        4.9                                       1.2       6.1
3. City of Kaunas
a. City Street Imp.             3.8                            1.3        5.1
b. Contingencies      -         Li1                                       1.-
Subtotal                  4.9                                       6.2
Total                  19.0      14.1       1.2        0.7       10.0      45.0
1/ Finland (US$210,000), Swedish Trust Funds (US$210,000), Netherlands Trust Funds
(US$150,000), and Norwegian Tmst Funds (US$100,000)
I/Finland and Sweden



Annex C
Page I oL2
LITHUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
NPV: Net Present Value
IRR: Internal Rate of Return
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION. The Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM
III) was used for most of the analysis. The HDM has been created by the World Bank and used all
over the world to perform economic analysis on road maintenance and design. This model requires
as inputs the condition of the road (roughness, cracking, potholing, ravelling, geometric parameters,
history of the pavement), the level of traffic and its estimated growth broken down into five
categories of vehicles, the cost of vehicle maintenance, the cost of passenger time and cargo holding,
the depreciation of vehicles, and five different maintenance strategies and their impact on road surface
distress. The model calculates the road deterioration and the evolution of the roughness, and
consequently estimates the vehicle operating costs under the various maintenance strategies. The
model determines the highest NPV and IRR by estimating the total economic costs and benefits for
society for each of these strategies.
2.    Rehabilitation of the East-West Highway. The model HDM III with Lithuania-adjusted
deterioration values was used to determine the stretches of the East-West Highway and the pavement
strategies with the highest NPV (at 10 and 15% discount rates) and IRR. The four maintenance
strategies considered were remixing, a 10 cm overlay, a replacement of the asphalt concrete and a 5
cm overlay reinforced by steel wire nets (see Annex C- page 3/4 for the results of this analysis).
3.    Repaving of Regional Roads. The model HDM III was used to compare the following
maintenance strategies: no action; patching 100% of potholes; 12 mm single surface treatment; 4 cm
asphalt overlay at ICI 6+ patching; and 8cm overlay at ICI 4 + patching. The highest NPV and IRR
were used to prioritize the sections and maintenance strategies to be included (see Annex C- page 5/6
for the results of this analysis).
4.    Vilnius City. Thirty two streets were selected based on engineering judgement and the age of
the existing layers. The HDM III model was used to carry out an economic analysis based on two
discount rates (10 and 15 %), three levels of traffic growth (0, 2 and 4 %) and two different periods
(12 and 18 years). The cost benefit analysis led to a prioritization excluding sections with a rate of
return inferior to 37% (see Annex C- page 7/8 for the results of this analysis).
5.    Bridges. Twenty bridges were selected among the 50 considered in critical conditions, for
further investigations. The remaining life span and the decrease in bearing capacity of these bridges
have been assessed through a survey. The do-nothing alternative for a bridge consists in doing no
repair until its bearing capacity reaches a level which requires traffic diversion. The likely diversions
and repair required on each bridge were identified. The benefits are derived from the savings in
vehicle operating cost achieved when the diversion is avoided. A sensitivity analysis on traffic
growth (0, 2 and 4%) and cost of construction (80, 100 and 120%) was performed. The Bridges with
the highest NPV and IRR were selected to be financed under the project(see Annex C- page 9 for the
results of this analysis).
6.    Kaunas City. The cost benefit analysis was based on the comparison between the present



Anne"
Page 2 of 9
situation and the situation if the improvements are implemented. This comparison includes the
potential savings in accidents, time consumption, vehicle operating costs and pollution. The project
was estimated to lower annually the number of accidents by 13, the time spent in traffic by 0.7
million hours, the Vehicle Operating Cost by 6 MLTL, and pollution by 6 tonnes (10%). The unit
cost were estimated at 20,00OLTL/accident, 1.45 LTLlhour and 10,000LTL/tonnes of pollution and
the NPV and ERR were calculated on a 15 year period with a discount rate of 15 %. Various traffic
schemes were assessed during the preparation of the project and the one with the best NPV was
selected. A sensitivity analysis was carried out with the following parameters: Traffic Volumes,
Speed, Accident Rates, and Construction Costs.
7.    Bypasses. Due to a lack of funding in recent years, the construction of the five bypasses was
stopped, leaving uncompleted structures around the cities. The benefits achieved through the
construction of these bypasses comes from time savings, from vehicle operating costs and from
accident reduction. Environmental benefits were not assessed in monetary terms. Investment and
maintenance cost were included in the cost of the project. The evaluation criteria used for the project
were the IRR and the NPV (for discount rates of 10 and 15 %).
8.    Road Safety. The benefits achieved through the road safety component are assessed in five
steps:
(i) compare the accident data for an accident black spot to the data obtained for a similar road
segment (ie crossing, exit lane, etc...);
(i) estimate the future accident rate by considering traffic growth and other parameters.
(iii) predict the rate of accident to be achieved.
(iv) decide the specific activities necessary to remedy to the black spot and determine the impact of
each activity from a table based on past experience. (ex. 0,7 = 30% reduction of accidents).
(v) determine the cost optimal activity.
The value of one life has been estimated at a conservative 120,000 USD. The cost of injury has been
assessed at 12,000 USD per injured person. The NPV was calculated at both 10 and 15 %.



rabke 1.P*j - WeM Hjghuy Pm'j;a~ LSE of Slkded. Sadieu
!4uabfftfufiex  Opdeua I- Reuvdxig E,wa  7 rem,
-   -  -   -                         -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cwulma         Economnic  lInawndal   Fmonpi fnncikdI',Dil%
Rtvd     Direc   Lengfis   tiw          IRI         AADT    ~~~~~coat,    COSi         cst         JaCO.W.                at'V disclniat
R14   ortd    Dionec      oi kri to, Ia  Ln (km)    kfve        mlkm    A195        1995.07       1996.01      1996.01       196.0i    Hut 9              Of
(kni)                g~~~~~~~n1cC., Lkai pces, bttii fce.; USD  juuices. USD          10%       iS %
I         Al_ ____94___0    9___0                 1                9           __l4 _22    11.3         j54           39            39)       420.0    1.197      0.917
2   Al         2       95.0      94.0       1         2        2.07      7168        113           154          397                       4.1.6              .9
3       Wl                 88.0      94.0       6                   .2       6852        675-         926           I3       - 3t9            400        19
Al             2        86.0      84.0       2         10       2.19     6i8         253977                                   386        110.0    1.693-3    1.2!37
5       Al         1       32.0      35.0       3         13       2.25      5114        38463                      116           501        107.0    2.198     1.622
6       Al         2       81.0      78.0       3         16       2.M4     5604         338'         463          .116           617        105.1    2.376      1.746
-Al -      1       53.0      55.(       2         18       2.27      4096        225           30            77           694.       97.0      1.320    0.970)
a       Al         2       39.0      37.0       2         20       2.12      4984     -W)0                           77           771        9.5.5     1.38.5    1.014
Al    1    ~71.0        75.0       4       .24        2.01     4879         4.50         61             5           969.3                261        .5
110        Al.        I       10.0     22.0       12        36-       1.59-   577          130181463T                               1389        862      9.148    (,.599
ii  Al      1       ~~~~~~22.0  32.0     10        46        1.64     5364        1125          1533877                                 3.6-    7.08      510
12       Al        2        92.0     86.0        6        52        1.34,   6595         675           926)       -233            201Y)       76.7     4.&86     3.466i
13       Al        1        75.0     83.0       8         60        1.48     5508        901)          1234          309          2314        12.4     5.484     3.1192
14       Al        2        84.0      81.0      3         61.6               5918        338           463           116          2430        71.6     2.170     1.533
15       Al        1        49.0     53.0       4         67        1.59)    4749        450           617           154          2.584       70.8     2.388     1.699
.16       Al         2       47.0      45.0       2        69-    1.435    4844         -225i-          309           7            2661        67.3     1. 198    084
17       Al         1       60.0      71.0      11        80        1.60     4505        123B       -iFOi        -4-24            3086        67.2    60:133     4.347
18       Al    -2 .   37.0            10.0      27        107       1.35     5500        3038          4166          1041         4127        65.8    17.084    12.4122
____ I       1        45.0     49.0       4         ill       1.36    -4818        450           617           154          4281        59.6     2.210     1.551
Al__                8 3.0    118.0       5        116       1.20)     6191         63-         771193-                    44-74-      58.6-  -3.4        2.348, 
~~~~~~~~~~2i     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al  1  55.0  60.0  5  121  1.3r6    4636        5671194677.                                                   2.1       183
22       Al         1       35.0      45.0      10 -      131       1.32      4932        1125         1543          386          50.53       56.0      5.507    3.789    Q'
'2         AF        2        94.0     92.0       2         133       1.02     7012        225           309        --53                        4.        .32      08
24       Al         2       72.0      701.0      2        135       1.13   _4720)         25            0          77             5207        42.9    01.894    01.584.t   ,
25I      Al         2       70.0      52.0      14        153       1.10   4583    2025                2777          694          5901        41.3   7.633  4.941    QC)
26  Ai  2  78.0   77.0        1        154       0.95    ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~5397                            59 - 1 43 5 40  40.5  0.475    0.304 -
27       At         2       45.0      39.0       6        160       1.0       4914        675          926           2.31         6171        39.3      2.57      l.-6Wt   '
28  Al       2       52.0      47.0       5        165       0.97     4784         563          771           193          6364        37.2   __2.(X)9     1.259~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0 47.  5  6  097  78456
29       Al         2       770       72.0       S        170       0.74      5085        563          77             93          65728.5               1.546    0.857  
E, change Rate: 1 USD  =4 Litai



Annex C
Page 4 of 9
TABLE2AXLS
East-West Highway
Table 2: Summary of Sensitivity Anabsis on Overall Basis
NPV, Lit'000
Table No of Cost - Benefit Analysis      IRR to            at discount rate of
10%         15%
Scenario Low
2.1.1 Decreased costs by 20 %                     74.5          90367          64497
2.1.2 Nominal costs                               60.1          84643          59280
2.1.3 Increased costs by 20 %                     50.4          78919          54064
Scenario: Medium
.2.1 Decreased costs by 20 %                     81.3          112194         79894
2.2.2 Nominal costs                               66.0          106470         74678
2.2.3 Increased costs by 20 %                     55.8          100746         69461
Scenanio : Hih
2.3.1 Decreased costs by 20 %                     87.5          131641         93761
2.3.2 Nominal costs                               71.3          125917         88545
2.3.3 Increased costs by 20 %                     60.6          120193         83328



Regional Roads
Tabb 1. xO
T'be L Usi of P,orIioiks of Selrded &dlo  ter Pawoes   RehabMl la                                                               :
Consuls.                                   Fh Hgami end 
lczagth,   dyc    liii           AA- cIQ              a1"  1vuwcd               CdI          P.Uilwa
NO.                 Sedhio                    I rmn kni to kin      n| Lnt |           fIR#  AA         MOLD                  I n lOLO    1960.0          Diswunt Rai of
km    Lenglit.  1996    1996                  Pd%     Psi-n.  1U3     PiiMi        10%    IS%
kmi                              WA            unDUIJ
141 KIsuin s-Juitbarkas-Silutc-KIDip        216.6   224.4    7.8       7.8     6.3   116.80   10259      I3O\.458     1215.94     1641.52     410.38   7553       5066
2  132 Ayltus - Scirijai - UltAlijli         2.5       4       1.5      9.3    7.3    71.10   5130         198.16.S    23.84        315.68      78.92    689        474 
3  141 Kaunas- Jurbalkas - Dilu[6- Klaip6da   6        10       4       13.3    10.4   61.80   3769       528.440      623.56       841.81     210.45    804        545
4  164 Malcikini - PIlung6 - TauraBe          58       63       5       18.3    9.1   57.30   3436         660.550     779.45      1052.26      263.06   1448       976
5  164 Malcikiai - Plinge - 'raurigt          72       75       3      21.3    8.9   55.80   3436          396.330      467.67      631.35      157.84    858       575
6  155 Kurl6nai -Ma2cikiai                    6        14       8      29,3    8.0   53.30   3039         1056.880     1247.12     1683.61      420.90   2228       1494
7  155 Kou Fna i- Ma;cikia:i                  32       37       5      34.3    7.5   52.10   3073          660.550      779.45     1052.26      263.06   1461       999
8  141 Kaunas-Juibark:s-s.ilutc-Ilaip&l.a    202.4   207.2    4.8  3'9.1    8.3   51.20    3135   (634.128              748.27     1010.17      2S2.54    1501      977
9  156 N.Akmcnc- Vcnla                       16.1    16.5      0.4     39.5    9.4   50.20   2158           52.844       62.36       84.181      21.05    84        57
10 105 Vilnius- Piicnai- Marijam polc         52       54       2       41.5    9.6   47.60    2633        264.220      311.78      420.90      105.23    436       295
I_  127 flabriWkes - Varcna - Eiliikcs         1       5        4       45.5    10.3   45.80   2194        528.440      623.56      841.81      210.45    718       4,15
12 127 llaIbrifkcs - Varcita - Eisikcs      39.8      44       4.2     49.7    8.5   40.8(1   2112        554.862      654.74      883.90      220.97    844       538
13 141 Kausias - Judliakas -&iuc - KIlaipsda  16       41       25      74.7    8.8   40.50    3087       3302.750     3897.25     5261.29     1315.32   4848       3163
14  156 N.Akmcn& -Venla                       14.8    15.7      0.9     75.6    8.1   39.50   2184         I 18.899     140.3(0     189.41       47.35    207        128
IS  155 KuStrnai - Mai.cikiai                 5(l      52       2       77.6    6.2   37.80   3073         264.220      311.78      420.90      105.23    517       324
16 105 Vilnius - I'ricnai - Marijampold      27.8      30      2.2      79.8    5.2   28.10   4075         290.642      342.96      462.99      115.75    462       251 
17 15I6 N.Aknn 6 -Vcenta                      19.3    21.2      1.9     81.7    6.4   26.65    2042        2531.009     296.19      399.86       99.96    344        174
1 8 103 Viln ius - Polockas                   27       31       4       85.7    8.3   26.60   1674         528.440      623.56      841.81      210.45    430       246
19 154 giauliai - <ruzd2iai - N.Akmcnc        3.5      5.1      1.6     87.3    8.2   24.90    130')       211.376      249.42      336.72       84.18    16(        86
20 103 Vilnius - Ilolockas                    23      25.7      2.7     90.0    7.9   24.85    1674       ,356.697      420.90      568.22      142.05    264        143
21  131 Alylus- Sitiinas- Kalvarija           19       23       4       94.0    6.7   22.80    1999        528.440      62.156       841.81     210.45    376        186
22 1 18 Kupifkis - UlJcna                     7.4    18.35    10.95    105.0    5.8    21.43    1889       1446.6)5    1707.00      2304.44     576.11    12S 1      509
23  146 Rasciniai - Silinc                    0.0      14.0     14      119.0   8.8   21.23    1280        1849540     2182.46      2946.32     736.58   1231        530
24 151 PakruoJis- Linkuva                     2.0      8.0       6      125.0    5.7   17.10    1649       792.660      935.34      1262.71     315.68    430        97
25  129 Anitakkainis-Jicsnas-AlyWus-Mcrkinc   16.7    20.6      3.9    128.9    7.1    1650    1241        515.229      607.97       820.76     205.19    212        35
26 129 Antnkaini.s-Jicenas-Alytus-Mcrkinc     27.0    30.0       3      131.9    6.0    15.80    1467       396.330     467.67       631.35      157.84    152       17
27 154 tiauIlii- Coru7Ai.iai - N.Abunenc      9.2      10.3     1.1    133.0    5.8    15.50    1309        145.321      171.48      23150       57.87    59          4
If vis o                 133.0     -       -                        17564.025    2072558    2797953       6994.88   29573     18337
&chae ge Ratc J USD   4 Lital
OD m
x
00
%s



arLg x6Cof 9
TABLEU.LS
Regional Roads
Tabk 2: SummaiY of Sensitiviy Analysis on Overall Basis
NPV, Liti '000
Table No of Cost - Benefit Analysis         IRR %           at Discount Rate of
10%         15%
Scenario: Medium
2.1.1 ...2.1.2 Decreased costs by 20 %                  50.9          33087        21849
2.2.1 ...2.2.2 Nominal costs                            38.2          29574        18336
2.3.1 ...2.3.2 Increased costs by 20 %                  30.2          26061        14823
Scenario: Low
2.4.1...2.4.2 Decreased costs by 20 9o                  46.3          26104        17367
2.5.1 ...2.5.2 Nominal costs                            34.3          22591        13854
2.6.1 ...2.6.2 Increased costs by 20 %                  26.7          19078        10341



LITHUANIA                                    Anne C
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                Page 7 of 2
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF VILNIUS CITY RESURFACING PROGRAM
Shteet & Section            (M2)                    (%)                 (000 Litas)
Area                   IRR                 Repair cost
1. Savanoriu
4.                               18,900                     56                    662
5.                               10,500                     53                    368
6.                               10,500                     38                    368
7.                               12,600                     39                    441
2. Celezino Vilko
16.                              17,600                     85                    616
17.                              10,400                     50                    364
18.                               7,200                     70                    252
21.                               5,700                    128                    200
22.                              10,200                     78                    357
23.                               5,700                    136                    200
24.                              10,200                     83                    357
25.                               9,800                     64                    343
26.                               9,800                     58                    343
27.                               3,400                     39                     119
3. Liepkaenio
91.                               9,020                     44                    316
92.                               6,560                     34                    230
93.                              10,400                    182                    364
94.                              10,875                     34                    381
95.                               6,000                     18                    210
96.                               7,875                     28                    276
4. Ullnerges
56.                              19,680                     64                    689
60.                              13,970                     37                    489
61.                              11,275                     37                    395
57.                               8,200                     89                    287
58.                              11,480                     50                    402
5. Zinnunu
66.                              21,000                     31                    735
67.                              13,300                     22                    466
68.                               6,300                     35                    221
6. Kariviu
69.                              15,104                     46                    529
70.                              16,256                     59                    569
l/Excluding VAT



Annex C
Pae 8 of 9
Street & Section          _M     __              (%)                (000 Litas)
Area                  IRR           Repair cost
7. Kalvar4u
125.                            6,880                    60                  241
126.                            5,548                    55                   194
127.                            9,344                    35                   327
128                             8,580                    56                   300
8. A. Gostauto
145.                            1,975                    34                    69
146.                           16,575                    66                   580
147.                           16,575                    66                   580
9. Sopeno
99.                             2,480                    53                    87
10. Kauno
100.                           11,040                    36                   386
101.                            7,360                    98                   258
102.                            2,944                    61                   103
11. T. Narbuto
118.                            4,140                    51                   145
119.                            5,980                    36                  209
120.                           15,640                    54                   547
121.                            5,520                    48                   193
122.                            3,220                    36                   113
123.                            6,440                    51                   225
124.                           10,580                    42                   370
12.0. Milasiaus
71.                             6,400                    40                   224
72.                             6,400                    49                   224
13. Zvaigzdzio
55.                            24,920                    35                   872
14. Arditektu
53.                            14,300                    41                   500
15. Zalgirio
64.                            19,680                    35                   689
16. V. Kudirkos
111.                            8,160                    67                   286
112.                            4,760                   102                   167
17. Svitrigailos
113.                            4,836                    60                   169
114.                            5,642                    42                   197
115.                            6,448                    54                   226
116.                            4,836                    58                   169
Total                        565,638 m2                  56%                 20,199



THE WORLD BANK
LITHUANIA HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                 .
ASSUMPTIONS
Traffic growth                         102 %
Discount rate                           15%
Works cost                             100 %
Estimates used for repair costs:
- site-costs                           10,0 %
- design and management costs          15,0 %
- margins and reserves                  0,0 %
Int. bridge Name of the Bridge                 Cost of  Year of         NPV  IRR    RNPV
no                                             repair   repair
USD
1.02      Viesu Viaduct                         227 409  1999       836 585   41 %    2.61
1.03      Vievio Viaduct                        342 562  1997      3 505 384   77 %    8.63
1.04      Bridge over Kulpe                     426 195  2004      3 639 107  131 %   19,41
1.05      Bridge overNemuna at Prienai          139 150  1999      5 041 184   52 %    5,14
1.07      Bridge over Minlja                    228 990  1999      9 774 268   92 %   23,66
1.08      Vidukles Viaduct                      269 698  1998      1 963 938   67 %    5,77
1.13      Garliavos Viaduct                     754 793  2003      2 763 892   81 %    7.00
1.14      BridgeoverPenta                       177606  1998       5308977   83%    11,35
1.17      Bridge over Leveni                    254 265  1998      1 640 727   65 %    6,49
1.24      Bridge over Kruona - Both bridges    1 646 992  1998    52 410 850  138 %   32,08
2.03      Paparciu Viaduct                      352 846  1997      4 102 316  109 %    9,57
3.01      Bridge overSalanta                    213 254  1999      3 304 848   60 %    8,10
3.02      Bridge over Virvyte                   230 167  1999      2 745 690   80 %   10,05
3.09      Bridge over Nemuna at Alytus          255 517  1999        803 867   29 %    2,02
4.05      Bridge over Sesuvis                   237 694  1999      2 177 066   53 %    5,96
4.06      Bridge over Seteksna                  138 834  1998      1 975 859   70 %    7,77
4.07      Bridge over Venta                     230 483  1997      2 691 864   64 %    6,44
4.10      Meskupo (Jonavos) Gatves Viaduct      353 466  1999        542 484   31 %     1,34
1.0911.10  Viaducts at Seduva and Baisogala     457 494  1997    17 462 222  119 %   12,44
1.24      Bridge over Kruona/ First half        915 379  1998    52 964 054  175 %   53,10
(D t
x
SUMMARY.XLS                                                                                                                                0
05.07.96-19:1C                                                                                                                             I
'.0



Annex D
Page I of S
Project ImDlenentation Schedule
0
.                                                                                  ~~~._
........ .   .............................................................................................................    ....    ..   ....................................   .................................................  ......... 
CY
CL
'I'i'~~~~~ [1 1
_a    -IL                                                                  l                                                  i
 .... I......... ..........                                                                          ... .. .  .
*1    ;j *| li   I I 1                                                                    _ii         ii   I I
IL                                                                         *                                                   1
Ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   *1   41
14 0          a     a     i'          a1                                                                 



al~~~~~~~~~
9~~~~~~~~~~ ii L
PA                                             S
r  9L              it                              RL ~         I                           *
5            ~~~~~~-1      4                          -4  t
* .                            0
H  -                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I.....-................   ..      .....     ..  ...........  .................   ....       ........ .....
* JO Z92u
(I xoIE                                                                                                   0



Annex D
Page 3 gf 5
C.,
I  
0
9                     ,                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
o-                                          I
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oU
0  1ti
c    ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''1 '' ''' '''''''''''''''''''''''''''" '''''''''''''''''' 
o                          
a I1 
*r#SIII                                              
C . d| 
C  -  ................ .. i, 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a a. -                             .
..... ..... ...... ......  ............................... .I '.       
1~~~ ~ ~                       B.     R|RjS S 0       
I'iR  iiIJIII |} tU1  I ,.                             iii|$ 



AnnexD
Page4 Of5
............... ...........     ................    .....    ...........    ....   ..    ...........   ..  .   . ...   ..    ..   .....  ....   ..    .. .._...................................    ..    .
0
Ea                                                                     i.k|||FaiiiE a0s0i
Al , Xl  AAtll



*~~~~~~. * e               ..  g     
-4
I   1                                 w1 m1  *t
-a xauuIr
-J    -J    -4    -4    -.1   -4    -4    -4414 O
ill'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
cas Joaa
11O



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Monitorable Targets      Units    At Start   Dec      Dec      Dec    At project
1997    1998    1999    completion
Repaving
Design                      %          30       65      100                 100
Construction                %                   30       65      100        100
Bridges
Design                      %          40       100                         100
Repairs                     %                   40      100                 100
Road Safety
Technical Assistance        %          20       40       80      100        100
Black Spot Improvements     %          0        20       60      100        100
Jslnius Stredt
Design                      %          25       55      100                 100
Construction                %          0        25       55      100        100
Training Programme for      %          0        70       100                100
Contractors
Quality Requirements
Contracts meeting quality   %          80       85       95       95         95
specifications
Amount of Periodic         Index      100       110      121     140        140
Maintenance and New
Construction Performed
by Private Contractors
Budget for Maintenance     Index      100       110     121      140        140
Cost of 5 cm Overlay       $/M2
Cost Benefit Analysis for   %          45       60       80      100        100
New Construction and
Periodic Maintenance of
Main and Regional Roads
Accident Rate            Index of     100       95       87       80         80
fatalities
per 10,000
veh



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
OBJECTIVES            MONITORABLE           MEANS OF         ASSUMPTIONS
INDICATORS         VERIFICATION
Help preserve the      Increase in LRA budget  LRA, Ministry    The budget from the
Lithuanian road network  for maintenance      of Transport     road fund will
by expanding the level                                         increase as forecast.
of maintenance over a    Index 100 = 1996
four year period
Encourage the          Amount of periodic     LRA, Ministry    The budget from the
development of private   maintenance and new  of Transport     road fund will
road construction and    construction performed                increase as forecast.
engineering companies.  by private contractors
Index 100=1996
Training programme for  Contractors
local contractors and
engineering companies
Improve the cost       Cost of a 5 cm overlay   LRA             This cost will be
efficiency of the local   in $/m2 (no drainage,                 monitored and
contractors            no levelling layer)                      reviewed every
year, but no specific
targets can be set
because the cost is
very sensitive to
changes in material
costs.
Allocate LRA budget in  Percentage of funds    LRA
a cost efficient way   allocated for main and
regional roads new
construction or periodic
maintenance following a
cost-benefit analysis.
Improve road safety    Decrease in the number  Statistics from  The Parliament will
of fatalities for 10,000   TRRI         enforce new laws to
vehicles (13.1 in 1994)                 improve road safety.
Index 100 = 1996
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX F
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Procurement Arransements
I ________________    _______   Calendar Year (US  million)
Project Element               1997        1998         1999        Total
1. Civil Works
1.1. ICB
a. East-West Highway and     0.0          1.6         2.7         4.3
Regional Road Repaving
b. Repair of Bridges         1.1          1.2         0.0         2.3
c. Black Spot Improvements   0.0          0.9         1.0         1.9
d. Vilnius Street Repairing   1.1         1.2         1.9         4.2
1.2. NCB
a. East-West Highway and     2.1          0.9         0.0         3.0
Regional Road Repaving
b. Repair of Bridges         0.2          0.3         0.0         0.5
c. Black Spot Improvements   1.0          0.6         0.3         1.9
d. Vilnius Street Repaving   0.3          0.4                     0.7
2. Equipment, Goods (IS)                   0.2                      0.2
a. Road Signs
TOTAL                          5.8         7.3          5.9        19.0
Reflects IBRD contribution only



ANNEX G
Procurement Plan & Schedulel
_           ~                        .-
Naure of Pacage          ToWl         Method                      Major Activities Schedule
Cost                   Issue of    Submission of   Award of    Completion of
Estimate                Doc.       Bidstprop       Contract     Padcage
Uss000                                             Signing
Civil Wouks  Regivna Roedr and Eust
ICBi/NCB     West gY4woy
Repaving ,LII,.1  1997   3x250        NCB         1/6/97     2/24/97        3/28/97      9s26/97
Repaving IV,V,VLVI1      4x350        NCB        2/5/97      4/3/97         5/17/97      9/01/97
1997
Repaving Ln 1998         20450        NCB         1/6/99     2n24/98        3/2s/9s     9s26/9
Repsving HI 1998         1,600        NCB        2/5/98      4/2/98          5nn39        10/1/98
Repaving I 1999          1,400        ICB         1/6/99    254/99          3/28          1/26/99
Repaving 11 1999         1,200        ICB        2/5/97       3/09  4        /1197       80/1/97
Rehabilitation 1 1997    1,200        ICB        2/23/97     4/12/97        5/13/97      7/30/97
Rehabilitation 19   1997   200        NCB        3/23/97     5/79/97        6/23/97       11/10/97
Rehabilitation 1 1998      300        NCB         1/23/98    4/10/98         5/13/98      10/1/98
Rehacilitotionvm 1998    1,200        ICB        3/23/98     5/17/98        6/1231/9s    7/0/98
RoadSaf1
Black Spot inprovenents    300        NCB         1/19/97    3/10/97        4/11/97       8/1/97
LB 1997
Black Spot Improvements    3x200      NCB        2/19/97     4/17/97         51121/97     7/30/97
II1 IVV 1997
Black Spot Improveig en19   200       NCB         1/19/98    3/10/97        4/11/97       3/1/97
Stree Re1 ig1197           2099                    /79        12742/9                      /29
Black Spot Ie provegnen  1,000        ICB         1/19/98    3/17/98        4/11/92       7nos/9s
HI 1"99
Blact Spot Improveg ents I    300     NCB         1/19/99    3/10/98        4111/99      9/1299
1999
Black Spot Improvements    i,00       ICB        2/19/99     4/17/99        s31/2s        7n30/99
n 1999
Street Repaving 1 1997   1,200        ICB         1/17/97    3/10/97         4/11/97      8129/97
Stree Repaving II 1997     250        NCB         1/17/97    3n/28/7         4/25/97      9/12n97
Street Repaving 1 1998   1,200        Ica         1/17/98    3/10/98         4/11/99      =9/98
Street Repaving 11 1998    300        NCB         1/17/98    3/24/s          4125/s       9/12/99
Street Repaving I 1999   1,800        ICB         1/17/99    3/10/99         4/119        09gg s 99s
Goods        Road Signs                 200        Is          3/23/98    5/19/98         6/23/9       11/10/92
'Net of contingencies



ANNEX H
REPUBLIC OF LITHIUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements (US$ million)     Cumulative %
IBRD FY          Semester          Semester         Cumulative      Disbursement
FY 97            December 96                  0.0              0.0              0
June 97                     1.0               1.0              5
FY 98            December 97                  3.0              4.0             21
June 98                     3.0               7.0             37
FY 99            December 98                  4.0              11.0            58
June 99                     3.0              14.0             74
FY 2000          December 99                  3.0             17.0             89
June 2000                   1.5              18.5             97
FY 2001          December 2000                0.5             19.0            100



ANNEX-I
REPUBUC OF LITHUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
SuPrvfion Plan
The schedule below is in addition to the regular needs for the review of procurement documents,
progress reports, and correspondence, estimated to require 6 staff weeks per year for four years.
Approximate Dates        Activity            Expected SkUIl       Staff Weekm
___________________   ___________________   R equirem ent
FY 96__                                                          _     __
10/96               Supervision (project    Engineer, Road Safety    8
launch)              Spec., Procurement and
Disbursement Spec.
2/97                 Supervision          Engineer, Economist    4
6/97                 Supervision          Engineer, Road Safety    4
Subtotal               16
EY98
10/97               Supervision           Engineer, Road Safety,
Economist             6
2/98                 Supervision          Engineer, Economist    4
6/98                 Supervision          Engineer, Economist,
Road Safety
Subtotal               16
EY-22
10/98               Supervision           Engineer, Economist    4
3/99                 Supervision          Engineer, Procurement   4
6/99                 Supervision          Engineer, Economist    A
Subtotal               12
FY 2000
10/99               Supervision           Engineer               2
3/2000               Supervision          Engineer, Economist    4
6/2000               Supervision          Engineer, Economist     4
Subtotal               10
EXI-01
9/2000              Supervision, and PCR   Engineer, Economist,    6
Preparation          Fin. Analyst
LBRD Staff Only     - - _



Annex J
Page 1 of 2
LITHUANIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Services
Design, Contract    Assist LRA with the detailed design, preparation of  EU- PHARE
Management,       bid documents and procurement procedures.         $200,000
Supervision,      Assist the Municipality of Vilnius and the LRA with
Procurement,      contract management, and quantity and quality control,
Pavement          including support to site management. Review of
Research/ Org.    LRA/TRRI/Problematica/Kelproject work and
Review            cooperation practices regarding investigations and
design of new pavements and pavement repair and
strengthening. Set up a research program and assist in
identifying optimum design and maintenance strategies
with particular attention to the specific Lithuania road
problems, the introduction of increased EU legal axle
loads and higher tire pressures. Local services to be
paid by local funds.
Design and        Assist the Municipality of Vilnius with the detailed  Swedish Trust
Preparation of    design, the preparation of bidding documents for the    Fund
Bidding            1997 construction season, procurement procedures  $60,000
Documents for the   and training to ensure that MV staff will be able to
Municipality of   perform these tasks for the following construction
Vilnius           seasons.
Design and        Assist LRA with the detailed design and preparation of  Norwegian Trust
Preparation of    bidding documents for the bridge component.       Fund
Bidding                                                             $100,000
Documents for
Bridges
Training of       Train contractors, consultants and client staff with the   Netherlands Trust
Contractors and   aim of enhancing cost-effectiveness and quality of  Fund
Client Staff in   work, to make local contractors more competitive and    $150,000
Business Practices  to enhance the client management capabilities.
Identification of contractor weaknesses, training in
preparation of business plans, enterprise management,
accounting, financial analysis, cost estimating, work
planning, contract management, quality control,
marketing, communication, and human resource
management.



Annex J
Page 2 of 2
Road Safety        Develop for DERS a computerized vehicle and driver  EU-Phare (1997)
license register and road accident reporting and  $1,000,000
analyzing system to be integrated with the police and
customs corresponding systems. Provide international
experts to assist DERS in developing an accident
location coding system for urban areas, education for
school children, traffic safety information, driver
training, review of legislation, and training of traffic
police .
Prepare for LRA and the cities traffic safety design
standards for road/street infrastructure including road
signs and road mnarking, and provide training in
road/street planning, design, construction and
maintenance considering road safety and safe road
works, and in road safety audits.
Prepare detailed design and bid documents for   Finland
remedial actions to improve accident black spots  $210,000
Road Network       Review the organization and management of county    Swedish Trust
and minor roads including the possible introduction of  Fund
Private Road Associations                       $150,000
Road User Charges   Study the existing Road Fund law, the future    EBRD
and Road Fund      requirements for road maintenance and propose
Study              imnprovements of the existing schedule of charges.



Annex K
Lithuania Highway Project
Environmental Review
This report is an environmental assessment of the Lithuanian Highway Project, financed by the World
Bank and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project has seven components as
follows:
i.    Repaving of highways and regional roads
ii.    Completion of 5 bypasses
iii.   Bridge repairs
iv.    Road safety program
v.    Technical services
vi.    City of Vilnius
vii.   City of Kaunas
Construction work on the bypasses and part of the City of Kaunas component has started, while the
extent of rehabilitation work on roads and bridges has not yet been decided.
The Transport and Road Research Institute in Kaunas have already completed Environmental Impact
Assessments for the bypasses. A summary of these reports is included here.
It is not believed that the rehabilitation of the highways and regional roads will have significant
impacts on the environment. However, care must be taken to protect natural watercourses during
construction works.
It is not believed that the bridge component will have significant impacts on the environment, but it
is important to protect nearby watercourses from pollution during the rehabilitation works.
The road safety program includes technical services and minor civil works that will not have any
negative environment effects, and will have positive effects if it successfully reduces the number of
accidents.
The City of Vilnius component involves rehabilitation of streets in Vilnius. No significant
environmental impacts are expected to arise from this component.
The City of Kaunas component, in addition to rehabilitation of some roads, include the construction
of a new section of road along the river. The new road layout will result in less emissions from
vehicle exhaust and less noise in populated areas. One building will have to be demolished, and an
alley of trees will have to be cut down. One of the most positive features of this project is the
construction of a bicycle lane along the river Nemunas.
It is not believed that any of the project components will have significant negative effects, and based
on environmental considerations, there are no reasons to abandon any part of the project.
Norplan
May 15, 1996



Concordance Table
Lithuania Highway Project
SAR No. 15636 - LT
Agreements to be Reached                  Corresponding Section of
Legal Documents
6.1 (i)                                   L.A. 5.01 (c)
6.1 (ii)                                  L.A. 3.01 (a) and P.A. 2.01 (a)
6.1 (iii)                                 L.A., Schedule 5, para.5
6.1 (iv)                                  L.A., Schedule 5, para.1
6.1 (v)                                   L.A., Schedule 5, para.3 and P.A. Schedule 2,
para. 1
6.1 (vi)                                  L.A., Schedule 5, para.4
6.1 (vii)                                 L.A., Schedule 5, para.2
6.1 (viii)                                L.A., Schedule 5, para.6
6.2                                       L.A., Schedule 1, para.3






MAP SECTION






BI~D 28033
L A T V I A
LITHUANIA                                                                                   To Llep&jc  TO Saldus             To Rigs          To Riga
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Baltic                                      M    cior
-                                   ~~~~~~~Sea
- qR_os-                                        Seod;                                                 Kursenci                   t     JoiklsPcndilysX  
-   ~~~~;o~~~~oi~~~ood~~~~~                     Palongo                           ie,ii-                                                            odly
Roulds PcicngcR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ K . go ; NO~~~~~~~~~~~~T Dougavpils
KIaipida  G\ rqz a,Ita sog
-,  Taurog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$T
02 j<                      I             PcTeinici~~~~~~I TH VU- AS                                 ten    ,                Druyo
Kurshskiy  Jurborkas ____                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~venciontiia
n                ~~~~Pabrod                   lbky
To Chernyokhovsk                                                                             ern-ve
=5i6 jx RUSSI5  AN       9         Chernykh                                                   rok                      Me
gX F E D E R A T I O N i ~~~~~~~~~~Mcrijampoy                                                                         -     - VILIS rcin
3olhc  P   0  ~ESTONLu   FEOFFAPlOCN                  POLAND                     v,Irsiikt                                                                            
jX UTHUANIA    >                                            2o      .o     1A       0            fl,i                                  Gon
J5. o  VIj,a1                                       0    10     3  .0   .0   50                                                                                        To L
B.,x    ELARUS\
PC l.ASD    \,









IMAGING
Report No:      15636 LT
Type: SAR



