Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20715
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(40840)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
September 12, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officialduties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout UWorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = LTL
LTL 1 = US$ 0.25
US$ 1 = LTL 4.00090
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT           -             Average Daily Traffic
DERS          -             Department of Environmental
Protection and Road Traffic Safety
EBRD          -             European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
EIA           -             Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR           -             Economic Rate of Return
EU-Phare      -             European Union Aid for Eastern Europe
FSU           -             Former Soviet Union
ICB           -             International Competitive Bidding
IRI           -             International Roughness Index
ISPA          -             Instrument for Structural Policies
for Pre-Accession
LRA           -             Lithuanian Road Administration
N.B.F.        -             Not Bank-Financed
NCB           -             National Competitive Bidding
MOT           -             Ministry of Transport
NPV           -             Net Present Value
PIU           -             Project Implementation Unit
PMS           -             Pavement Management System
SOE           -             Statement of Expenditures
TRRI          -             Transport and Road Research Institute
VPD           -             Vehicles Per Day
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Basil G. Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:    Cesar Queiroz, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          l
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        I 1
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    2 1
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   23
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                        24
Annex 9. Co-Financier's Comments                                                        30
Map: IBRD No. 28033
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008551                                       Project Vame: HIGHWAY
Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz                                TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: September 13, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHWAY                                        L/C/TF NIumber: 40840
CountryyDepartment: LITHUANIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/21/94                                 Ejfective: 12/09/96           12109/96
Appraisal:  04/08/96                                 AMTR: 11/01/98               02/13/99
Approval:  09/05/96                                 Closing: 12/31/2000          04/04/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA / LITHUANIAN ROAD ADMINISTRATION &
MUNICIPALITIES OF VILNIUS AND KAUNAS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Basil G. Kavalsky                          Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar                                 Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Cesar Queiroz                             Cesar Queiroz
ICR Primary Aiithor.   Robert H. Nooter
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Olutcomne: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inpact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qutality at Entny:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the Project were to assist the Government of Lithuania in preserving its road
network, and to improve the efficiency of Lithuania's road maintenance operations. The specific objectives
of the project were:
(i)    To expand the level, quality and efficiency of periodic maintenance for roads and bridge repairs;



(ii)    To reduce vehicle operating costs and improve the environment in five towns by completing
bypasses, and to help preserve the urban infrastructure by financing an expanded program of street
improvements and maintenance for the cities of Vilnius and Kaunas;
(iii)   To facilitate road financing by encouraging an improved system of road user charges;
(iv)   To encourage and support the development of private road construction and engineering industries;
and
(v)    To improve road safety conditions in Lithuania.
These objectives reflected the priorities of the Borrower and Bank's strategy for the highway sub-sector.
This consisted of a lending operation that would include financing of a larger road maintenance program
than would have been possible with Lithuania's own resources in the short run, introducing improvements
in operational procedures and techniques for road and street maintenance in order to improve the efficiency
of future road maintenance operations, and supporting measures to secure increased local sources of
financing for future road maintenance. The physical objectives were clear, precise, and with priorities
established through feasibility studies. The Project assisted the Govenmuent to be able to carry out an
increased level of maintenance at a time when the taxation systems in the country were just in process of
being established. Institutional objectives were appropriate for local institutions that had competent
personnel but which had been out of touch with the latest developments in the Western world. This
included the use of economic analysis as the basis for pavement design and program planning, the use of
contracting for carrying out periodic maintenance operations, improved quality control, and training for
local contractors in private business techniques. The objective of establishing an improved system of road
user charges was intended to enable the Government to raise the funds necessary for road maintenance
from local resources in the future.
There was some risk involved in the inclusion of the Vilnius and Kaunas components, where the
institutional capacity to carry out road maintenance was more limited than for the national road network,
and in the introduction of road safety, a relatively unpracticed concept in the former Soviet Union. Also,
the Road Safety component, which included a broad program of improvements involving a number of
Government agencies, was extremely ambitious as most of these agencies would need to contribute to the
program but would not directly benefit from it. In retrospect, all of these program elements were
appropriate for a Government and institutions that had just emerged from the relative isolation of the Soviet
Union, justifying the level of risk involved, with the possible exception of the Road Safety component.
Even this component, however, was useful in setting the stage for future improvements in an important area
of activity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
3.3 Original Components:
The Highway Project included a three year program of activities at a total cost of US$45.0 million (net of
duties and taxes), consisting of the following components:
(a)    Lithuanian Road Administration (US$26.5 million before contingencies)
(i)    Repaving of portions of the Main Road Network including the Vilnius-Klaipeda East-West
Motorway, based on the results of detailed pavement surveys, strength and crack failure investigations
(US$12.0 million).
(ii)    Completion of partially constructed by-passes around five urban areas (US$5.6 million).
(iii)   Bridge repairs for the main road network (US$3.0 million).
- 2 -



(iv)   A Road Safety Program consisting of technical support for the Department of
Environmental Protection and Road Safety (DERS) in the Ministry of Transport and for the Lithuania
Road Administration (LRA), as well as financing for civil works required to eliminate accident black spots
and to improve road markings, guard rails and other safety measures (US$5.0 million).
(v)    Technical services to assist LRA in identifying the most economic pavement design and
maintenance strategies and in improving LRA's management systems; assistance in procurement,
supervision of contracts and project accounting; training for private road construction companies; a road
network study; and a study of the existing Road Fund Law, including a forecast of the optimum amount of
financing required for the most economic maintenance level for the national road network and options for
improving its provisions aimed at assuring self-sufficiency in meeting Lithuania's road maintenance
requirements (US$0.9 million).
(b)    Municipality of Vilnius (US$5.0 million before contingencies)
(i)    Repaving and reconstruction of high priority streets and bridge repairs.
(ii)    Technical support to assist the Municipality to handle procurement, monitoring, project
accounting and the supervision of the civil works included in the project.
(c)    Municipality of Kaunas (US$5.1 million before contingencies)
(i)    Repaving and upgrading of streets needed to provide an inner-city by-pass through the
southeastem part of the city so as to relieve the heavy flow of traffic through the city center.
(ii)    Technical support to assist the Municipality to handle procurement, monitoring, project
accounting and the supervision of the civil works included in the project.
In addition to the above costs, physical contingencies of 10 percent and price contingencies calculated on
the basis of estimated worldwide inflation for the foreign costs and estimated domestic inflation for the
local costs over the project period totaling US$8.4 million were included. Thus the total project cost was
estimated at US$45.0 million.
The design of the project components was realistic in terms of the ability of the implementing institutions'
capabilities and the objective of expanding those capabilities to include such things as road safety and
bridge management. The components, in particular those related to the design of the institutional
strengthening, also reflect an understanding and application of the lessons learned in prior projects in other
parts of the world, including the need to emphasize maintenance over new construction, the use of economic
analysis to determine the most effective use of limited resources, the use of contracting for the improvement
of efficiency, and the "user pays" principle for securing resources for road maintenance.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components did not change during project implementation except for the reduction of the
number of by-passes included in the program from five to four, since one of the by-passes was
completed with local financing prior to the startup of the project. Also, the number of km of
roads improved was less than anticipated at appraisal, with significantly more intensive upgrading,
as explained in para. 4.2. There were some relatively minor changes in the amount of financing
for each component, with the following outcome for the actual cost of each component:
- 3 -



(a)    Lithuanian Road Administration (US$30.1 million)
(i)    Repaving of portions of the Regional Road Network (US$13.9 million).
(ii)    Completion of partially constructed by-passes around five urban areas (US$5.3 million).
(iii)   Bridge repairs for the main road network (US$3.6 million).
(iv)   A Road Safety Program (US$6.2 million).
(v)    Technical services (US$1.1million).
(b)    Municipality of Vilnius (US$6.5 million)
(c)    Municipality of Kaunas (US$7.6 million)
Actual Total Project Cost:                            US$44.2 million
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR finds the quality at entry to be satisfactory. The objectives are consistent with the objectives of
the CAS and Government priorities, the quality of the design is appropriate for a country just emerging
from the Soviet Union, the preparation took into account the Bank's safeguard policies with special
relevance to environmental considerations, and the risks were appropriately assessed and addressed in the
project design. The economic analysis was done competently, and the final results are consistent with those
expected before the project began. There was no Quality Assurance Group assessment of this project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement oftobjective:
The project achieved its overall objectives of preserving the Lithuanian road network and improving the
efficiency of Lithuania's road maintenance operations, and therefore is rated as Satisfactory.
Implementation was timely, and the loan was able to be closed on April 4, 2000, almost nine months before
the originally scheduled Closing Date of December 31, 2000. All of the loan proceeds were utilized except
for US$3,568.82, which was canceled at the request of the borrower so that the loan could be closed.
Performance was excellent in all project areas except for some of the broader aspects of the Road Safety
component (see below), without which the project would have qualified for a Highly Satisfactory rating.
At the time of appraisal, co-financing from EBRD of US$14.1 million was agreed to be used for the
Municipality of Kaunas, the completion of five by-passes, and for a portion of the LRA repaving
component. Co-financing materialized from both EBRD and JEXIM Bank of Japan for a total of US$34.3
million that financed not only the project elements included in the Highway Project, but also improvements
in the highway called Via Baltica that runs from Tallinn to the south to Latvia, Lithuania and Poland
(which is the main component of TEN Corridor No. 1). Of this amount, US$11,644,835 was made
available for components of the Highway Project, including US$5,327,358 for the Municipality of Kaunas
and US$6,317,477 for the financing of LRA's operations, including the completion of four by-passes and
the upgrading of some sections of the Regional Road Network. The co-financing contribution was smaller
than originally planned because the LRA had completed one of the five by-passes included in the original
project design prior to project startup.
The EBRD/J-EXIM Bank-financed components included in the project have been completed, but no
-4 -



infornation on economic returns is available since the Via Baltica component is still under implementation
and returns will not be calculated until the entire EBRD project is completed at the end of this calendar
year. The financing for technical services was provided on a grant basis by EU-Phare, Finland, Sweden
and Norway as originally planned, but at a level of US$1.1 million instead of the US$0_9 million estimated
in the SAR. In parallel with the project, EU-Phare financed other relevant studies, including (i) Road and
Motorway Management in the Phare Countries (completed in July 1999); (ii) Traffic Forecast for the Ten
Pan-European Corridors (completed in October 1999); (iii) Road Safety Project (completed in December
1999); and (iv) Road Transport Charges (completed in December 1999).
4.2 Outputs bY comiponents:
Repaving of the National Road Network: The repaving of the East-West Highway and selected regional
roads was carried out on a more intensive basis than anticipated at appraisal, with a consequent reduction
in krm upgraded, but was completed on schedule. The rates of return varied somewhat from the estimates,
but were at satisfactory levels (see Annex 3). An important aspect of the East-West Highway repaving was
the inclusion of alternative technologies for reducing the effect of transverse cracking by the use of different
kinds of geo-textiles and other grid materials when doing the repaving. The test sections included in the
project will provide valuable information about this long-standing and technically difficult problem, which
will be of use to Lithuania as well as to other FSU countries that have similar problems.
Completion of Partially Constructed By-passes: The project originally included the completion of five
by-passes. However, the LRA completed one of these by-passes using its own funds before project
implementation began, as mentioned in para. 4. 1, and therefore only four were completed with project
financing. These four were completed as planned, and on schedule.
Bridge Repairs: Bridge repairs were carried out as planned and on schedule, with satisfactory economic
rates of return (see Annex 3).
Road Safety: The design and construction of improvements in portions of the national road network that
had a high incidence of accidents (accident black spots) were carried out with expert advice from Finnish
consultants. Progress was less impressive, however, on the Government-wide aspects of the Road Safety
Program, where the locus of responsibility for coordinating and planning for the establishment of an
accident reporting system, education for school children in road safety, national road safety information
campaigns, training for traffic police, and development of traffic safety design standards for road and street
infrastructure including road signs and road markings was delayed and revised several times. By the
conclusion of the project, agreement had been reached on which agencies would be responsible for the
accident reporting system and the work had been started on putting it in place. Education for school
children is included in the school curriculum in Lithuania, but the expanded program envisioned at project
preparation was not undertaken. A very successful Road Safety Conference with broad representation and
high level participation was held on May 2 and 3, 2000, which was an important step in meeting the need
for a national road safety campaign. No special training for the traffic police was carried out under the
project, but significant improvements were made in the development of road signs and markings for the
national road network.
In summary, while not all of the elements included in this component were fully implemented, the overall
effect was clearly positive. Although the results of these efforts would ideally be quantified over a longer
period, the overall rate of fatalities per 10,000 vehicles in Lithuania has fallen from 7.5 to 6.6 (a 12
percent drop) between 1996 and 1999, and has fallen from 4.2 to 3.0 ( a drop of 40 percent) on the roads
outside of city areas that were the areas in which the accident black spot improvements were made.
- 5-



Repaving and Reconstruction of Streets in Vilnius: This component was carried out as planned, and on
schedule. Rates of return were better than estimated in the SAR (see Annex 3). The appraisal estimate
was based on cost per square meter of repaving instead of cost per km because of the wide variation in the
width of the streets. The estimated cost at appraisal, including contingencies, was US$10.87/sq m based
on an estimated 565,638 sq m of repaving. The actual cost was US$11.41/sq m for improving 569,355 sq
m.
Repaving and Upgrading of Streets and an Inner-city By-pass in Kaunas: This component was also
carried out as planned, with some additional works made possible by the transfer of the funds that had
originally been planned for the completion of the fifth by-pass that was dropped from the project.
Institutional Strengthening: During project preparation HDM analysis was used to identify the most
economic use of available resources. Also, a methodology for doing economic analysis for bridges was
introduced with the assistance of Norwegian consultants. Based on the benefits demonstrated through the
project and with additional technical assistance provided during implementation, LRA has expanded these
methodologies into formal Pavement Management and Bridge Management Systems, which in turn have
been integrated into LRA's planning processes as the basis for defining optimal annual maintenance
programs for road and bridge maintenance nationwide. Also, the project introduced new technical
standards and methodologies including (i) new types of pavements, binders and aggregates, (ii) new
standards for pavement design and related materials (bitumen and aggregates), (iii) the use of geo-textiles
and grids for reinforcing pavements against further transverse cracking, as described above, and (iv) the
introduction of high technology equipment such as road surface testers, falling weight deflectometers and
ground penetrating radar for the collection of essential data needed for determining the condition of road
sections. Consultants provided through the project also outlined a program for additional pavement
research that will expand the technical laboratory Problematica's considerable knowledge of pavements and
pavement design.
Under the Project, the municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas were exposed for the first time to the setting of
priorities based on economic evaluation. The two municipalities were introduced to proper competitive
bidding for works, thus changing their way of carrying out civil works from force account to contracting
out with competitively selected contractors. Under the Project, new standards were introduced (e.g., asphalt
pavements for heavy axle load urban traffic), as well as adequate quality control of works. A now well
established cooperation with LRA, TRRI and Problematica should bring long-term benefits to the
municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas
Improved Financing for Road Maintenance: After Independence, Lithuania established a Road Fund
designed to provide financing for road maintenance and construction, with income to the Fund based on a
general industry tax and a portion of the excise taxes on petrol, diesel fuel and lubricants. Just prior to
project implementation, the Road Fund law was amended to increase the tax rates applying to the sources
of revenue to the Fund. The revised law provided for 80 percent of the Road Fund income to be made
available to LRA, and 20 percent for street maintenance in the eleven largest municipalities. One percent
of the Road Fund income, to be taken from the LRA share, was to be set aside for a special Road Traffic
Safety Fund. During the life of the project, further changes were made in the Road Fund tax sources, with
an increase in the share of the excise taxes on petrol, diesel fuel and lubricants assigned to the Road Fund,
the introduction of an annual vehicle registration tax for cargo vehicles, a transit fee on vehicles registered
abroad, and a fee for vehicles with loads over permissible limits. As the result of these changes plus the
increase in traffic volume, income to the Road Fund has increased substantially. In addition, the general
industry tax, which has declined as a percent of Road Fund revenue from 72.7 percent in 1996 to 42.6
- 6 -



percent in 1999, will be eliminated by the year 2004. All of these changes are consistent with the Bank's
recommendations regarding road user charges.
The income from the Road Fund (80 percent of which is made available to LRA) has risen as follows:
US$ equivalent (millions)
1996                                      76.5
1997                                     126.5
1998                                      157.0
1999                                      165.8
Thus financing for road maintenance was greatly expanded during the implementation period of the project.
Support for the Road Fund was based on the perception that traditional budget financing did not result in
an adequate level of resources to maintain the road network. It was also supported by the fact that the
larger municipalities also benefited from its existence, thereby broadening its base of political support.
However, financing is now at a level that has led the Government to consider abolishing the Road Fund in
favor of regular Government budgeting procedures after the end of this calendar year, although no decision
has been made as yet.
In sumnary, the objective of facilitating road financing by encouraging an improved system of road user
charges has been met in a very satisfactory manner, and now provides an adequate level of financing to
maintain the national road network, although the future of the Road Fund is in some doubt.
Development of the Private Road Construction and Engineering Industries: The project provided
training for contractor staff in competitive bidding for works, site management, and quality assurance
procedures. It also introduced an effective site inspection supervision system and field testing that held the
contractors to a high level of performance. A contract review prior to commencement of works, standard
site documentation and diaries, regular site meetings and collaborative site supervision were used,
supported by technical assistance for supervision and on-the-job training provided to contractor staff. The
effectiveness of these actions is reflected in the high quality of contractor output, good performance of the
end product and reasonable price levels for work performed.
Average roughness, measured by IRI standard test ratings, was 1.6 ni/km (compared to 3.7 m/kmn before
repaving) for the repaved sections of the national roads, and 2.4 m/km (compared to 4.7 m/km before
repaving) for the Vilnius City streets, which demonstrates that the local contracting industry can produce
results of acceptable quality.
Comparative Cost of Road Works. The estimated cost of repaving, including contingencies, included in
the appraisal was US$43,530 per km for repaving of 170 km of the East-West Highway, and US$56,925
per km for repaving of 133 km of other roads. Alternative types of repaving were considered, including 5
cm remixing for the East-West Highway, and 4 and 8 cm overlays for the other road sections. The actual
costs for the road sections financed by the World Bank loan were based on designs that varied significantly
from the appraisal assumptions. The East-West Highway repaving included 7.98 km of 5 cm remixing at
an actual cost of US$52,811 per km, and 24.63 km of repaving that included the use of geo-textiles to
prevent the recurrence of transverse cracking at a cost of US$148,483 per km. The repaving of the other
road sections included a total of 32.69 km at an average cost of US$163,230 per km. In addition, 47.54
km of roads were reconstructed based on financing from EBRD/JEXIM.
The reason for the substantially increased cost for the sections of the East-West Highway that utilized
geo-textiles compared to the appraisal estimates was that there was only limited prior experience with this
- 7 -



technique. While the cost was much higher than expected at appraisal, the results so far have been
excellent in resolving the long-standing problem of transverse cracking, with no evidence of its recurrence
after up to four years of use. A number of altemative products were used in the repaving, and the LRA has
concluded that a specific type of polipropilene geo-textile applied on top of a leveling course using a stone
mastic asphalt overlay with modified bitumen produces the best results. LRA will continue to monitor the
results, and will report on the outcome after there has been more experience in actual use.
The high cost of repaving the other road sections is the result of designs that included much more extensive
work than envisioned at appraisal. This included strengthening of the base, widening of the road sections
from 6 meters to 9 meters, removing some old asphalt layers, reconstruction of intersections, construction
of bus stops, the addition of metal crash barriers and pedestrian paths, and the installation of road signs,
guide posts, and road markings.
The works contracts included a variety of work tasks, but each was priced with separate unit prices. The
unit prices for the construction of asphalt concrete pavements, which are a major part of most repaving
contracts, were as follows for the work performed on the national road network:
1997          1998          1999
4 cm asphalt concrete wearing course/sq.m  $5.67         5.47          6.58
5 cm asphalt concrete wearing course/sq.m  6.84         none           6.92
6 cm asphalt concrete wearing course/sq.m  8.07         7.95           8.68
These unit prices are somewhat higher than the unit costs for the World Bank-financed Highway Project in
Estonia in 1995 and 1996 (US$3.70 for a 4 cm overlay and US$4.65 for a 5 cm overlay), but are
acceptable compared to repaving costs in other countries. The higher costs compared to Estonia are in part
related to the higher transport cost of bitumen in Lithuania, since the bitumen was brought from Sweden
through Estonia. Furthermore, the cost of stone mastic asphalt, which was used for part of the works, is
higher than asphalt concrete, which was used for all overlays in Estonia. The higher cost may also reflect
the fact that, while all contracting was based on competitive bidding, all bids for repaving works except
two had only three bidders (one contract had two bidders and one had four). All contracts were won by
Lithuania contractors except for one, which was won by a joint venture. Nevertheless, moving from total
dependence on force account to carry out road works (as was the case in the FSU) to the use of
internationally bid contracts was a major accomplishment of the project. The unit costs also reflect the
lack of any adjustment in the Lithuanian exchange rate during the life of the project even though intemal
inflation has been approximately seven percent per year during this period.
4.3 Net Present Value/Eeonomic rate of retuirn:
In spite of the higher costs per km than the estimates made at appraisal as noted above, the actual economic
outcome was satisfactory, in part because of higher than expected traffic growth. For the repaving works,
economic rates of return and Net Present Values (based on a cost of capital of 10 percent) were calculated
during project preparation using the HDM-III computer model developed by the World Bank, adjusted for
Lithuanian conditions. Estimated savings resulted from the reduction in vehicle operating costs because of
improved roughness conditions of the road surface and reduced transport time, and the reduced need for
future maintenance. For bridges, a do-nothing alternative was compared to altemative repair solutions,
with benefits derived from the savings in vehicle operating costs achieved when the diversion is avoided.
The same methodology was used for recalculating the returns at project completion, based on the actual
-8-



cost of the works, updated traffic volumes, and in the case of repaving, the actual roughness of the road
surface.
Comparison of estimated rates of return and calculations at project completion are as follows (estimated
costs have been revised from the figures shown in the SAR to include physical and price contingencies, and
NPVs are based on a 10 percent cost of capital for both estimates and actuals):
Project Component            Cost (US$m             NPV                    ERR (%)
Estimate   Actual     Estimate   Actual      Estimate   Actual
Repaving of East-West Highway 7.4 (incl.  4.1 (IBRD  26.6       5.3        66.0       31.5
EBRD)    only)
Other Main Roads             7.4(incl.   5.3(IBRD   7.4         11.9       38.2       55.9
EBRD)    only)
Bridge Repairs               3.7         3.6        171.4       72.6       108.0      41.0
Road Safety                  6.5         6.2        Not         Not        55.6       Not
calculated  calculated*           calculated*
Municipality of Vilnius      6.5         6.5        22.0        52.7       56.0       Greater
I__________________________   I__I_I_I_Ithan                     50.0
- Road safety actual NPVs and ERRs cannot be calculated yet because there has not been sufficient time to
observe the results of the black spot improvements.
The components financed by EBRD/J-EXIM (a portion of the East-West Highway repaving, the by-passes,
and the improvements to the Kaunas city streets) have not yet been recalculated since not all of the works
financed by these institutions have been completed, as noted in Section 4.1.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated during project preparation since none of the borrowing
institutions are revenue-producing entities. A brief analysis of the impact of the cost of repaying the World
Bank loan on the LRA budget was made and found to be not substantial. This is still the case, with a
maximum repayment of US$3.1 million per year, equivalent to less than two percent of LRA's 1999
budget.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a positive institutional impact, as described in detail above. Lithuania was already on the
way to increasing its knowledge of Western technologies and techniques, particularly at the design and
research institute TRRI and the pavement laboratory Problematica, but the project facilitated and expanded
that process through the provision of experienced consultants from a number of European countries and
through the extra resources and training that was provided. There was a substantial impact on the
contractor industry also, which had to learn to meet higher work standards since payment for their services
was linked to satisfactory performance.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outsile the control of goverenment or inplemeneting agency:
There were no adverse factors outside of the Government's control that had a negative impact on the
-9-



project.
5.2 Factors generaliv subjeet to go ernment control:
One factor that was under the Government's control but not under the control of the implementing agency
LRA was the assigning of Government-wide responsibilities for the Road Safety Program. The
Government's hesitation in making this assignment limited the effectiveness of this component for those
aspects of the program that were to be carried out for agencies other than LRA (see Section 4.2). While
not all of the wider aspects of the Road Safety Program were implemented as intended during preparation,
significant achievements of this component have been reflected in recent improvements in road safety
statistics in the country (see para. 4.2).
5.3 f actors generally subject to inmplemnenting agency control:
The implementing agencies (LRA and the Municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas) managed all of the factors
under their control very satisfactorily. The management, procurement and financial decisions were made
competently and in a timely fashion, technical assistance was well used, and the co-financing partners were
kept informed of project progress and issues.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There were some changes in the actual unit costs compared to the estimates at appraisal, as explained in
para. 4.2. Project financing remained the same as at appraisal except for the elimination of the financing
for the by-pass that was completed prior to project startup (see para.4. l). The unchanged rate of exchange
during the project implementation period may have had some impact on project unit costs, but these were
within the range of the contingencies included during project preparation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is highly likely for a nunber of reasons. Even before the project had begun, the
Government was aware of the importance of increasing its commitment to road maintenance, although
Government resources were extremely restricted in the period immediately after Independence. During
project preparation, an effective Road Fund was established that provided for a much more adequate, and
increasing, source of financing. The Government has continued to improve the road user charges that
contribute to the Road Fund, and has maintained a level of funding that is adequate to maintain the road
network. At the same time, the personnel of LRA and its sister institutions working on road maintenance
(TRRI and Problematica) as well as the municipal governments of Vilnius and Kaunas have been, and
continue to be, staffed with capable persons who carry out their tasks with dedication and skill. Some of
their personnel have reached such a level of competence that they have been utilized as consultants on Bank
projects in other FSU countries.
The institution building components of the Project were directed towards the Road Administration, the
construction industry and to a limited degree towards Vilnius and Kaunas technical administration of
streets and bridges. The road administration and its affiliated organizations Problematica in Vilnius and
TRRI in Kaunas are well developed and functioning. Lithuania has proposed a number of projects for EU
financing under the ISPA (Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-accession) program, combined with
cofinancing by IFIs. The continued involvement of IFIs in the roads sector in Lithuania would contribute
to the expansion of the institutional progress made under the Project, including improvement in road safety
- 10 -



and road financing.
The Project served as a catalyst for a comprehensive twinning arrangement between LRA and the Road
Administration of Denmark, including financing by both Danish Trust funds and direct bilateral grants.
Additional similar arrangements were subsequently made with Sweden, Finland, Norway and EU Phare. A
very positive result of this is the continued close cooperation between LRA with all of its Nordic sister
organizations, a fact that will contribute to the sustainability of the Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a) The Borrower's plan for the future operation of the project is in reality its plans for maintaining the
road network on an ongoing basis. As stated in the Borrower's comments, this is predicated on the
establishment and maintenance of the Road Fund as a source of financing for both the national road
network and the major municipalities. It also includes annual inspections of the road network to determine
its condition and need for maintenance, the utilization of pavement and bridge management systems to
determine the most economical and effective use of available resources, and the continued use of
contracting with private contractors combined with an adequate level of contract supervision to assure good
quality workmanship. Thus, the Government has put in place an effective road maintenance system that
should assure the continued maintenance of the entire road network, including the specific roads and
bridges improved under the project.
(b) The annual surveys of the road network, including roughness indicators and strength testing, will be the
monitoring indicators that will keep a constant check on the adequacy of road conditions in Lithuania. The
design and research institute TRRI has been contracted by LRA to carry out annual surveys of the
Lithuanian road network.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the Project was satisfactory. The Bank
staff identified and prepared a project that was consistent with the Bank's Country Strategy. Project
preparation was carried out through five missions, starting in June 1994 and concluding in April 1996, with
negotiations following in July 1996 and Board Presentation on September 5, 1996 for a total preparation
time of 26 months. The length of preparation was required in order to complete road surveys and economic
analyses needed to establish the viability of the project. In retrospect, the project design, with a mixture of
civil works, institutional strengthening and support for the creation of an effective private road construction
industry, was appropriate to meet the needs of that period, and was consistent with the Bank's country
strategy of supporting Lithuania's economic transformation to a market system. The Bank staff correctly
assessed that the Government's policy for the transport sector and highway sub-sector was consistent with
the Bank's views. While no specific opinion was given in the Staff Appraisal Report on the level of
Government commitment to the Project, its description of the Government's progress in moving to
utilization of the private sector construction industry and establishment of a Road Fund was a tacit
indication of this commitment. The number of Bank staff was limited to four or less for all preparation
missions. The total time used for project preparation was 106.6 staff weeks. Good relations were
established with the Bank's Lithuanian counterparts, who were responsible for the implementation of the
project.
The Bank staff worked closely with the borrower in preparing the Project, and the technical design and
- 11 -



economic evaluation were reviewed during several preparation missions. The project design was made
somewhat complicated by the addition of the municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas and the inclusion of a
co-financing partner and a rather ambitious road safety program. However, this did not hamper
implementation, although it added somewhat to the cost of supervision. Another complicating factor was
the provision of all technical services on a grant basis (as requested by the Government), which necessitated
working with several grant-providing agencies. Nevertheless, the quality of these services was high, and
they contributed significantly to the success of the project.
The Bank staff correctly assessed that the counterpart organizations had sufficient motivation and
competence to carry out the project successfully. The concept of performance indicators was developed
after the SAR was prepared, but were added to the supervision process shortly thereafter. While the-
concept was relatively new at the time, in retrospect they were prepared adequately. The only relevant
Bank safeguard policy related to the environmental impact of the project, which was adequately prepared
through an environmental review carried out by qualified consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines
and the resultant Environmental Management Plan implemented. Relevant lessons from other similar
projects were incorporated into the project design, as described in paras. 3.4-3.6 of the Staff Appraisal
Report.
In summary, the quantity, quality and skill mix of the Bank staff assigned to the Project preparation was
appropriate, their relations with the co-financiers was well handled, and there were no apparent
shortcomings in any aspect of the project preparation process.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project was also satisfactory. Total time devoted to project supervision was
66.6 staff weeks. As there were few problems or major issues and the project outcome was satisfactory,
this level of supervision can be deemed adequate. The skill mix for supervision included primarily highway
or transport engineers supported by an economist and a traffic safety expert. This was an adequate mix
considering the nature of the project and the relatively broad experience of the individuals involved in the
supervision. Cooperation and exchange of information with the co-financiers was adequate, although since
the financing was for parallel activities, there was very little need for joint missions. Generally, each of the
civil works co-financiers handled its part of the project independently, while sharing the information about
its respective components. Supervision ratings were consistent with the outcome of the Project, and appear
in retrospect to have been appropriate. The only shortcoming in Bank supervision was that in some cases
supervision reports were processed considerably (four to five weeks) after the supervision missions were
completed, mainly because the missions were combined with missions to other countries. There were no
known deviations from Bank policies or procedures, and Loan conditionalities were adhered to at all times.
The Bank played an important role in assisting the Government to secure grant financing for the technical
services needed for the project. As the Government did not want to finance technical services from the
loan, there was no financing category in the Loan Agreement for technical services. In one instance, this
led to difficulties regarding the financing of the foreign consultants supervising the civil works. The Bank
had arranged for the financing of the supervision of the civil works from the Danish Trust Fund. A
qualified consultant was selected and a contract issued by the Bank for the first of two years of these
services on the basis of written assurances from the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs that financing
would be made available even though the amount in the Trust Fund at that time was only sufficient to cover
the first year's costs. At the end of the first year, the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs advised that the
Government had not yet replenished the Trust Fund, but reiterated its assurances to the Bank that it
planned to do so. The Bank was not able to issue a contract extension for the US$249,870 needed to
- 12-



finance the second year's supervision. However, the consultant, recognizing that the construction work was
in process and the supervision was needed, stated that it would provide its services without a contract in the
expectation that financing would become available later. In the event, Denmark did not make additional
funds available in spite of its earlier assurances. Financing from the loan was not an option since no
technical services category was included in the Loan Agreement, as noted above. At the time of project
closing, no solution had been found for paying the contractor.
7.3 Overall Bank peribrinance:
The Bank's overall performance is judged to be satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower carried out its responsibilities for preparation in a timely manner and competently. There
was a qualified local institution (TRRI) that was capable of carrying out the required feasibility studies for
the road and street repaving, and the quality of this work was good. LRA had the same objectives in mnind
as the Bank for improving its operations, which made preparation a cooperative venture.
7.5 Governmenit implemientationi peiforinance:
The Government met its responsibilities in carrying out the project in a very satisfactory manner. This was
especially the case in regard to the passing of legislation to create, and later to modify, the Road Fund law,
which led to the provision of adequate and timely funding for both project counterpart financing and for the
other road and street maintenance operations of the country. Counterpart financing was made available as
required to meet project needs. The only shortcoming was the delay and frequent changes in the decision
regarding the locus of responsibility for the broader Govermnent-wide aspects of the Road Safety Prograrn,
as described in Section 4.2.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The cooperating institutions (LRA and the municipal governments) performed very well in all aspects of
project implementation. LRA assigned a well qualified engineer to be the Project Coordinator, and project
reports, withdrawal applications and audits were submitted in a timely manner. The Bank's procurement
guidelines were adhered to, and there were no significant procurement problems or delays. Technical
services and donor financed training programs were well utilized, and all covenants were adhered to
throughout the implementation period. On the whole, the performance of the implementing agencies was
exemplary.
7. 7 Overall Borrover performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
8. Lessons Learned
There are a number of lessons that can be leamed from this project, some of which consist of things
observed in other similar projects but which are reinforced by this additional experience. These include:
a. Good Projects are Usually the Result of Working with Good Counterparts. In this case, the
counterparts were competently trained and dedicated individuals who could and did benefit from additional
- 13 -



financial resources and exposure to other technical and managerial methods. While this is hardly a new
lesson for those who have worked in development, it can not be repeated often enough since it is critical to
achieving successful project results. It is a lesson that is broadly applicable to virtually all sectors and
projects.
b. Road Administrations Function Best on the Following Basis:
-Planning for the use of resources should be based on economic analysis that identifies the optimal
choices of road sections to be improved and the type of pavement improvement to be carried out, through
the use of the HDM computer program or similar system.
-Contracting on a competitive basis improves efficiency compared to force account operations; it
should be used for all periodic maintenance, and for routine maintenance when there is sufficient knowledge
regarding how this can be done effectively.
-Careful supervision of contractor performance is needed to assure adequate quality of works, with
payments tied to fulfilling the quality requirements.
-New technologies and design standards can improve performance of the road administrations in the
FSU countries that had been isolated from Western practices for an extended period.
These principles have applicability to virtually all road administrations in the FSU countries.
c. Road Funds Should be Designed to have a Broad Base of Political Support. In the case of the
Lithuanian Road Fund, the eleven largest municipalities shared in the financing generated by the road user
charges paid into the Road Fund. This created an incentive for the political representatives from these
areas to be supportive of the establishment and maintenance of the Fund, even though this meant that a
smaller amount of resources would be available for the maintenance of the national road network. On the
other hand, the very success of the Road Fund has led to questions as to its validity and some calls for its
replacement with normal budgetary procedures.
d. Co-financing Is of Only Limited Value for Projects with Incremental Works Programs. In this
case, the work financed by EBRD/JEXIM was sufficiently separate from the works financed by the World
Bank that there was very little advantage in bundling them into a single project, which required extra staff
time and resources to assure coordination and exchange of information. This extra effort would be worth
the cost involved if the project consisted of a single large component that could not be financed by a single
donor, but that was not the case for this project.
e. Good Coordination is Required for Improving Road Safety. MOTC carried out long and extensive
consultations within the Government to define which department would have overall responsibility for
traffic safety and how actions requiring interagency cooperation should be achieved. This included the
establishment of an accident reporting system, education of school children, national road safety
infornation campaigns, and cooperative programs between the traffic police and LRA. However, as
agreement was difficult to reach on this issue, implementation of these matters was delayed.
Notwithstanding these initial difficulties, and thanks to the perseverance of the MOTC, a division within
the Ministry was established in 1999 that was designated to be the national coordinator of traffic safety.
While this delay is understandable since Lithuania was still in its early years of independence, it
demonstrated the importance of establishing good coordination between agencies as a basis for an effective
road safety program.
f. Local Contractors and Consultants Benefit from Bank Projects. Lithuanian consultants and
contractors have learned much from their participation in a Bank-financed project, including better
- 14 -



planning for carrying out services and works according to schedules and with due regard to quality. An
evidence of this is that Lithuanian consultants have already started to provide services to other FSU
countries.
g. Subnational Agencies Benefit from Participation in Bank-Financed Projects. The additional
preparation and supervision work to include the municipalities of Vilnius and Kaunas in the project was
more than compensated by the significant institutional strengthening gained by these two municipalities.
They now have the capability of carrying out economic evaluation to select priority projects (through
contract with TRRI); they have achieved efficiency gains in contracting out civil works through competitive
bidding (as opposed to force account); they are more prepared to control the quality of their works, and
they have adopted modem works specifications.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/inmplemtenting agency:
Completion reports were prepared by LRA and the Municipality of Vilnius. These reports gave the
prospective of the implementing agencies, and indicated their satisfaction with the preparation and
implementation of the project. The lessons leamed contained in the LRA report are an interesting contrast
to those in the Bank's section of this report. Of particular interest is the reference to difficulties caused by
the imposition of several different procurement procedures, which is well known to all Bank staff; however,
within the Bank there appears to be little opportunity to resolve this issue in view of the insistence of each
donor agency on its own procurement guidelines. The main body of the LRA report and a summary of the
Municipality of Vilnius report are given in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
To be obtained.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Quality requirements: Contracts meeting                95                                       100
quality specifications (percent)
Amount of periodic maintenance and new                 100                                      100
construction performed by prvate
contractors (percent)
Budget for maintenance (Index- 1996 budget             140                                      141
is 100)
Accident rate (index of fatalities per 100,000          80                                       88
vehicles, using 1996 as a base of 100 a/)
Output Indicators:
IndIcatoriMatrix                      Projected In last PSR                    Actual[Latest Estimate
Repaving: Design (% of project plan)                   100                                      100
Repaving: Construction (% of project plan)             100                                      100
Bridges Design (% of project plan)                     100                                      100
Road Safety: Technical assistance (% of                100                                      100
project plan)
Road Safety: Black spot improvements (% of             100                                      100
project plan)
Vilnius street: Design (% of project plan)             100                                      100
Vilnius street: Construction (% of project             100                                      100
plan)
Training program for contractors (% of                 100                                      100
project plan)
Cost of 5 cm overlay (US$/ sq meter)                                                        $6.92/sq. m
Cost benefit analysis applied to new                   100                                      100
construction and periodic maintenance of
main and regional roads (percent)
End of project
Note: The Key Performance Indicators used as a basis of comparison are taken from the last PSR since the
SAR was prepared before these were a requirement, as explained in para. 7.1 of this report.
a/ Although less than anticipated, there was a 12 percent drop in the rate of fatalities per 100,000 vehicles,
from 75 in 1996 to 66 in 1999. If only roads outside of city areas are considered, the drop was 40%. The
total number of fatalities from road accidents in Lithuania dropped 9.8% in 1999/1998 (the average
reduction in Westem European countries was 4.4% in the same period).
- 16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US million equivalent)__
Appraisal     ActuaIlLatest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By CRTponent                US$ mdilion     US$ million
Lithuanian Road Administration
(a) Repaving                                            12.00            13.90         115.83
(b) By-Passes                                            5.60             5.30          94.64
(c) Bridge repairs                                       3.00             3.60            120
(d) Road Safety Program                                  5.00             6.20            124
(e) Technical Sevices                                   0.90             110          122.22
City of Vilnius                                           5.00             6.50            130
City of Kaunas                                            5.10             7.60         149.01
Total Baseline Cost                                      36.60            44.20
Physical Contingencies                                   3.50             0.00              0
Price Contingencies                                      4.90             0.00              0
Total Project Costs                45.00            44.20
Total Financing Required                 45.00            44.20
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurwnent Method!
Expenditure Categqo  l     iCB        PMN.F.                                   Total Cost
1. Works                      16.20         7.50          0.00         19.40         43.10
(12.70)       (6.10)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (18.80)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.20          0.00          0.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.00          1.70          1.70
Consultancies & Training     (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      16.20          7.50         0.20         21.10         45.00
|_____________________ | (12.70)   |   (6.10)            (0.20)        (0.00)        (19.00)
Note: Only the IBRD financed portion of the loan is shown by procurement arrangements ( )
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category       ICs       Procure  Method                 B.F.      Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __NC   o ther   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
1. Works                      18.39         6.13          0.00         18.50         43.02
(13.80)       (5.12)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (18.92)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.08          0.00          0.08
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.08)        (0.00)        (0.08)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.00          1.10          1.10
Consultancies & Training     (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      18.39          6.13         0.08         19.60         44.20
- 17 -



I                           1   (13.80)    1   (5.12)    1   (0.08)    1   (0.00)             (19.00)
Note: Only the IBRD financed portion of the loan is shown by procurement arrangements ( )
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governmelnt units.
Project Financing by Component (Appraisal Contingencies have been added to Appraisal
Estimates) (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component (Appraisal         Appraisal Estiate             ActuaMllatest Estimate
Contingencies have been
added to Appraisal
Estimates)       X___L ;_X_
Bank   G;ovt.                  OiF Bank   Govt.      CaF.    Baok   Govt.  CoF.
Re-paving                 7.14       3.82      3.82       6.70       4.00      3.20     93.8   104.7  83.8
By-passes                 0.00       2.09      4.81       0.00       1.60      3.70      0.0    76.6   76.9
Bridge Repairs            2.84       0.86      0.00       2.70       0.90      0.00     95.1   104.7   0.0
Road Safety               4.68       1.48      0.00       4.70       1.50      0.00    100.4  101.4   0.0
Technical Services        0.00       0.00      1.02       0.00       0.00       1.10     0.0    0.0   107.8
Vilnius, Re-Paving        4.68       1.48      0.00       4.90       1.60      0.00     104.7  108.1   0.0
Kaunas, Street lmprov.    0.00       1.85      4.43       0.00       2.30      5.30      0.0   124.3  119.6
-18-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The actual economic outcome of the civil works components of the project is as follows:
Project Component     Cost (US$ million)     NPV-10% cost of        ERR (percent)
capital (US$ million)
Repaving of National
Road Network (IBRD
financed works only):
East- West Highway            4.1                    5.3                    36.5
Regional Roads                5.3                    11.9                   55.9
By-passes                       5.3             Not yet calculated*    Not yet calculated*
(EBRD/JEXIM financed)
Bridge Repairs                  3.4                   72.6                   41.0
Road Safety Program             5.0              Not calculated**       Not calculated**
Municipality of Vilnius         6.5                    52.7             Greater than 50.0
Municipality of Kaunas          7.6             Not yet calculated*    Not yet calculated*
(EBRD/JEXIM financed)                        l
For a comparison with the estimated rates of return and NPV, see para. 4.3.
* The economic rates of return for the EBRD/JEXIM-financed components have not been calculated yet
since portions of this program have not yet been completed (see Section 4.1).
**Actual NPVs and ERRs for the Road Safety component can not be calculated yet because there has not
been enough time to observe the results of the black spot improvements in terms of reduced accidents.
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycl               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/ear    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1994                     4   3 Engineers, I Economist
March 1995                    4   2 Engineers, 1 Economist, I
Director, Danish Road Institute
June 1995                     3   2 Engineers, I Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1996                 4   2 Engineers, 2 Economists
April 1996                    3   2 Engineers, 1 Economist
Supervision
December 1996                  3  2 Engineers, I Economist              S                  S
May 1997                       3  2 Engineers, 1 Economist              S                  S
September 1997                 2  2 Engineers                           S                  S
May 1998                       2  2 Engineers                           S                  S
February 1999                  3  3 Engineers                           S                  S
July 1999                      3   1 Engineer, I Operations             S                  S
Analyst, I Financial Analyst
November 1999                  1   1 Engineer                           S                  S
ICR
August 2000                   3   2 Engineers, I Operations             S                  S
Analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
___________ ________ _ .No. Staf  weeks          uSS  (,Q00)
Identification/Preparation           97.5/97.5                 312.2/312.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                  9.1/9.1                    18.1/18.2
Supervision                          66.6/66.6                 100.3/100.3
ICR                                    1.6/4.6                      0/18.0
Total                              174.8/177.8                 430.6/448.7
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, Ml=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LII Macro policies                         O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
M Physical                                 *H OSUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                             O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LII Gender                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)            0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Traffic Safety
* Private sector development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                 * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
0 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
X Government implementation performance              O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoire for the ICR mission to Lithuania of May 14, 2000 for the Highway Project
2. Lithuania Road Administration Completion Report for the Highway Project dated 2000
3. Vilnius City Municipality Final Report for the Highway Project (undated)
4. Lithuanian Ministry of Transport report entitled Road Safety Statistics in Lithuania (undated)
5. Danish Road Directorate report entitled Traffic Safety, Volume VI (undated)
6. Lithuania Highway Project Finland Report dated November 1998 prepared by Kampsax International
7. Danish Road Directorate report entitled Vilnius-Kaunas Highway dated January 1995
8. TRRI report entitled Cost-Benefit Analysis of Maintenance Options on Candidate Sections of
Vilnius-Kaunas Highway dated December 1995
9. FinnarNiatek report entitled Lithuanian Road Safety Improvement Project dated January 1998
10 Peter Burgess report entitled Lithuania: IBRD/EBRD Highways Project dated June 6, 1996
11. Tebodin report entitled Technical Assistance to the Lithuanian Road Administration- Final Report
dated June, 1996
12. Kampsax Intemational reports entitled Lithuanian Highway Project- Final Report dated November
1997 and November 1998
13. SweRoad report entitled Management of Low Traffic Volume Roads dated January 1998
- 23 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
LRA Contribution
The main section from the Lithuania Road Administration (LRA) contribution to the Completion Report is
reproduced below. The LRA also provided the information on which the Borrower's plan for the future
operation of the project is described on page 8.
Introduction
Soon after the declaration of independence, Lithuania launched a program of the market-based
economic reforms. A new market-based, private sector-led development strategy was adopted.
Price liberalization, trade opening, legal reforms, structural reforms were started.
At that time limited budget sources of Lithuania were allocated for urgent programmes. It was
highly improbable that there could be any investments into roads made from the budget.
On 31 August 1994 the Government of Lithuania applied to the World Bank for the financing the
Highway project. In 1996 there were two loan agreements signed - one with the World Bank and
the other with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
This Project aims at the restoration of the Lithuanian road network, which due to the lack of
funding during the last six years has not been properly maintained.
Project Objectives
The key goal of the Project was to ensure a regular functioning of the road network by restoring
the periodical road maintenance.
It entails pursuing the following specific goals:
Strengthening road pavement on some national and main roads and reconstructing some
bridges.
* Improving environment situation in four settlements by constructing by-pass roads.
* Improving road traffic safety conditions.
*  Technical support to the Lithuanian Road Administration rendered by:
Institutional reforms.
Implementing the most efficient strategy of road investment.
Improving the road management system.
Improving works supervision system.
Training local contractors.
The objectives of the Project conformed to the aims of Lithuania, with its rapid transition from
planned to the market-based economy, with its road management and financing system being
reorganised.
Achievement of Project Objectives
In principle, the Project objectives were achieved. The implementation of the Project started and
was completed as provided in the schedule. There were all works of periodical road maintenance
provided for in Project performed. The road financing achieved the minimum level, which led to
- 24 -



the stabilisation of the road condition. The bridges in the worst condition were reconstructed.
When implementing the Project there, there were considerable achievements in different areas:
environrnent protection, traffic safety measures, technical support, tender procedures and training
of staff.
In principle, the environrnental issues were improved in the settlements of Siauliai, Silute, Daugai
and Vilkaviskis by directing the transit traffic by the newly constructed bypasses.
When setting up the traffic safety system in Lithuania, there was technical support provided.
When implementing the Project, on the whole territory of Lithuania 'bottlenecks' and 'black
spots' of the road network were identified. With the help of the FinnRa methodology, the
economic evaluation of the traffic safety measures was performed by setting up the
implementation priorities.
The data provided in the table for the periods 1 January 1998 - 30 June 1998; 1 January 1999 -
30 June 1999 (half a year before the implementation of the traffic safety measures and half a year
after it) do not reflect the tendencies, as the period of time was too short. Detailed data will be
provided later.
There were economically most efficient measures implemented, traffic safety measures monitoring
held.
There was a wide technical support programme to the Lithuanian Road Administration
implemented. While carrying out the reform of the LRA restructuring, there was a
methodological support provided.
There was a Project Implementation Unit established. It was concerned solely with the
co-ordination of the works of all institutions participating in the Project. Via the Trust Fund of
the Government of Denmark, the World Bank hired a Danish consultant company Kampsax Int.,
which performed the supervision of works during the period of 1997-1998. During that time local
specialists were trained, who were later able to carry out the supervision of works independently.
There was provided a technical support aimed at improving the road management system. When
preparing the LRA works programmes, on the initiative of the banks the method of cost-benefit
analysis was widely employed. Towards the completion of the implementation period of the
Project, and preparing the Programme for the year 2000, all works were selected on the basis of
the HDM method, as suggested by the banks.
The works were let through the International and National Competitive Bidding Procedures,
using the guidelines laid down in the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents Procurement of
Works. Smaller contracts (January 1995) or the revised Lithuanian Standard Bidding
Documents. All documents were subject to review and approval by the World Bank prior to
bidding commencing. The final documentation was produced in the English language for the
International Bidding and Lithuanian for the National Competitive Bidding.
There was a wide training programme of local contractors implemented. They were trained to
work by using the World Bank and FIDIC contract conditions.
There was a strict works supervision system applied, new quality control equipment bought.
- 25 -



The World Bank took an active part in organising road research programme.
Institutions involved
Brief details of Clients, Designers and Testing Authorities who are closely involved in the
Lithuanian Highway project funded by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are given below.
Lithuanian Road Administration
Centrally located in Vilnius City, the Lithuanian Road Administration is organised to carry out
management and supervision departmentally of its projects. It has sub-offices situated
strategically throughout the country with supervisors being provided from the offices nearest to
the projects.
Problematika
Problematika is an independent state owned institution performing sampling and testing of
materials for the Lithuanian Road Administration, other state organisations and private
companies. It closely co-operates with the Road Administration in pavement design and
undertakes pavement research.
The offices and laboratories of Problematika are situated in Vilnius City and are exclusively
modem. They use up to date equipment for material testing with each type of material being
allocated its exclusive section of the laboratory. Well-qualified staff carry out testing procedures
in the field and laboratory.
Kelprojektas
Kelprojektas is a former state design institute, now a privatised joint- stock company, based in
Kaunas which maintains sub offices in various locations throughout Lithuania. They have been
responsible for the majority of the design work and preparation of bidding documentation for the
Lithuanian Road Administration Highway Project.
Transport and Research Institute (TRRI)
TRRI is now an independent state-owned institute located in Kaunas. It carries out feasibility
studies, highway surveys and bridge inspections for the Lithuanian road authorities and
municipalities. It is responsible for looking after the Pavement Management System for the
Lithuanian Road Administration.
The company relies exclusively on fees generated from the works it perforrns on a contract basis,
and is currently involved in investigating new pavement technologies and testing methods. The
company was responsible for determining the final roughness and bearing capacity of the
structures being rehabilitated and constructed under the IBRD funded phase of the Highway
Project.
Project Sustainability
The following factors ensured the Project sustainability:
The Road Fund income gradually increased, and it ensured the funding of the Lithuanian share. In
- 26 -



the years 1996-1999 the Road Fund income increased from 305.9 to 632.0 million LTL
(206.6%).
In Lithuania the selection of the road sections to be reconstructed on the basis of the HDM model
was rapidly mastered. The pavement management system covering the above methodology was
widely applied when planning the works and calculating their financing needs.
The Bank purchasing procedures were quickly mastered. It ensured a more rapid selection of the
appropriate contractors.
Bank Performance
The Bank representatives were very quick in establishing the shortcomings of the Lithuanian road
system and its investment needs. Good working contacts with the employees of the Lithuanian
Road Administration were established. They were successfully sustained throughout the period of
the Project implementation.
There were many efforts put on the World Bank side when solving all problems concerned with
the road traffic safety.
There were good results achieved when planning and implementing the elimination of the 'black
spots' system.
There were many efforts put when attempting to set up a joint system of traffic safety of
Lithuania. However, due to the exclusively local reasons, there were no palpable results achieved
in the area - Lithuania was not able to fully set up a relevant institution (see para. 7.2, second
paragraph for a more complete explanation).
The employees of the World Bank managed to fulfill a very important task when selecting a
foreign consultant Kampsax Int. for the supervision of works. In 1998, however, there occurred
certain inconveniences concerned with paying to the consultant, which led to the suspension of
the supervision works (see para. 4.2 of this report for a more complete explanation).
The employees of the Bank expressed their trust in the qualifications of the LRA employees and
had confided the supervision of the works of 1999 to the latter. The trust was highly approved of,
and the works were completed high quality and in due time.
In general, the employees of the World Bank in their work manifested their high professionalism.
Their work was useful to the borrower.
Borrower Performance
Considering the fact that the Project was implemented high quality and in due time, the Borrower
performance should be rated as satisfactory. Even though certain difficulties aroused due to the
inadequate knowledge of English and lack of knowledge of the Bank procedures, the problems
did not, in the long run, influence the results of the Project implementation.
The shortcomings should also include a lack of energy on the Borrower's part when setting up
the road traffic safety system, improving the road user tax system and organising the road
research activities.
- 27 -



Key Lessons Learned
1. With the aim of ensuring the sustainable funding of the roads, it is important to further
improve the system of road user taxation system. Among other things, it should be improved
while approximating the present system to the requirements of the EU Directives. When
improving the taxation system, the possibilities provided by the Project were not fully utilised.
2. When preparing the Project, an active participation of foreign contractors was expected.
However, when implementing the Project, the Lithuanian contractors turned out to be able to
perfonn works as qualitatively and for lower costs.
3. The purchasing procedures of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development differ from the procedures of other European banks and the European Union.
The latter as well as the Lithuanian Procedures of Purchasing are orientated towards the FIDIC
requirements. This inconsistency was a cause of many misunderstandings in the past and might
cause further misunderstandings in the future.
Municipality of Vilnius Contribution
The Municipality of Vilnius stated that the World Bank financing was very necessary for the Municipality
in view of the poor condition of the city streets and the lack of funds from local sources. The loan helped to
put the streets in order.
Implementation was consistently carried out, and pavement research and economic analysis were applied
using experts of the TRRI in collaboration with the Swedish company Sandiaconsult. Based on the
research data, street sections were selected and the order of priority for repair was determined. For the
City, such economical grounding for street rehabilitation was a very important concept.
The use of the consulting firm Kelprojektas with long experience in pavement design resulted in designs
made with expertise and on schedule. The training provided by the project for employers and contractors
was beneficial. The consulting firm Tebodin introduced the quality assurance requirements set out by the
World Bank.
The Project Implementation Unit was very helpful in carrying out the project, and the head of the PIU
provided a link to the World Bank, which helped in solving problems as they arose.
The use of competitive bidding was not viewed unambiguously by the Lithuanian contractors. Only strong
contractors who had their own asphalt plants took part in the competition. Foreign contracting companies
took out bidding documents, but did not participate in the bidding, presumably because the contract
amounts were too small. Most of the contractors who won the competitions were quite strong technically.
The one exception required the supervising engineer and the employer's project manager to expend a lot of
energy in order to get the works done according to the technical requirements.
In the first year, the supervision company arrived late, after the works had already been completed.
However, the employer's technical supervision engineers had good technical expertise and supervised the
works correctly.
Previous to the project, asphalt concrete mixes were designed according to Russian technical specifications.
Starting in 1997, the Government, using the expertise of Problematica, adopted revised specifications based
on German standards. Initially, the mix was too fine for urban conditions, and in 1998 the mix was revised
- 28 -



to use a larger aggregate that was more appropriate.
Generally, the quality of the streets repaired under the project is good, as confirmed by the laboratory test
results and visual inspection of the streets. Initially, the fact that there was only one laboratory for testing
asphalt concrete led to delays in getting test results on time. Consequently the contractors were required to
submit their own test results, which were later compared to the results of the laboratory tests. In order to
avoid this situation in the future, the Municipality purchased laboratory equipment for testing asphalt
concrete mixes, which was handed over to the Vilnius Gediminas Technical University's Road Department.
The laboratory is now installed, and performs the tests for all of the Municipality's work.
The Municipality, working with road designers and the Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, has also
completed transport flow surveys, street classification surveys, and has performed street pavement
durability tests on the main streets that are in need of repair.
Using the World Bank financing combined with local resources under the project, 20 streets were repaired
in Vilnius City. Asphalt concrete was laid down on 569,355 sq m, surface treatment was applied to 91,511
sq m, and related works were carried out.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 9. Co-Financier's Comments
European Bank for Reconstructuion and Development
1. We remain a little bit less enthusiastic and satisfied with the functioning and impact of the
Road Fund. Although the Road Fund's functioning has been improved and its resources linked
more closely to road usage (and they have been increased), the lag between economically justified
road maintenance needs and funding available for that purpose continued to widen. During our
recent mission we have been informed that there is actually a proposal under consideration in
Lithuania to abolish all extra-budgetary funds (including the Road Fund) and include road
financing into the State budget. Whether it will happen or not remains highly dependent upon the
outcome of the next general elections scheduled in October 2000. The abolition of the Road
Fund may jeopardise seriously the sustainability of overall positive impacts of the Via Baltica
Highways & the Lithuanian Road Project.
2.    We also encountered some problems in the field of procurement. The problem of
differences between procurement policies and rules of different IFIs is well known, but seems to
be unavoidable. The resistance to accept open international tendering and disregard conditions of
preferential treatment intended to be applied by LRA for local contractors caused about 6 months
delay in the case of the two big construction contracts on the Kedainiai bypass financed by
EBRD. Finally both contracts were won by local contractors, because the offer price of the only
foreign bidder exceeded by far that offered by the former ones. The reliable funding background
provided by IFIs encouraged local contractors to purchase up to date equipment and machinery to
achieve required quality of works.
3.    EBRD's experience with Kaunas Municipality as implementing agency was less
satisfactory. A lengthy dispute evolved when they attempted to modify the content of the project
(starting to build an additional pedestrian subway contracted out to a local constructor selected
without competitive tender etc.). At the end of the learning curve they accepted that these
conditions (substantial variations, retroactive financing and solicited contracts) are incompatible
with IFIs funding practice and rules.
4.    Your statements and conclusions concerning the Traffic Safety component are fully
confirmed. We were disappointed that direct U-turns between inside traffic lanes (without
deceleration/acceleration lanes) are allowed on roads built as expressways and motorways.
Probably the modernisation (harmonisation with European standards) of the high capacity roads'
design standards and traffic regulations (Road Code) should put onto the agenda soon, since
traffic volumes are growing steadily.
- 30 -



IBRD 28033
.:    0  0    /                                              [L A T V I A
LITHUANIA                                                                                         To Uepajo  T        Saldus                               To Riga               ro Riga
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                              To Riga
Fove  tRhab6ilition of RaginalRoads i . I   '                                            saltic "  5 DM   'T
According to e Highway Pro1eot
EsfW-ot Higpwy
-    Highp                                                    ea  -.                                 
Rg-       R..&                                                                                                            Kur~6nai                                 JonliKII                        Pond4Iys 
Ri-ana
00                                                                                             reangePotto CiliaDugapil
/~~   urd.ski yn.      .    Jisrbgrkas       ~      ~      ~      Rdvikkis
*    N=tion=lC=phl   4Lt%? \  \     f f  \   < f( @ ppileRietoRietvas                                                 /                            _                                                                    k     <        -
*a~~~in                 -2-'          Ta~ToChernyakhovsk                        ct                                                     Kaiid    s        Kernaivee
Itob  doannolna w~~~~~~~~aancnnonsnoyacnooao  r   f<'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                To                  Kazhlne 
Oneow. oneocoanUanoHmmotolnOsdosnO,o  onrMooyf*Ar     I                                   ACN CernyolChovsk                                                  Rtd                                       Trai(cci                         Medininkai
uP,*tS;.i z      ynW..   E D  E FATI ON >7WVLAN              -is
N>                              |/<'                                                                                                                                                                   ar             n            ,
r ; S ~~~~ESTONIA  \ FDRUSSIONPOLA ND ToSwli'  J,^_,Ta d?
'' ' '  p /      ~IATVIA        .   L>-                                                                                                                                                          
i    j   A   X ~~~~~~~ 8  1 /                            fo~~~~~~  20       ;40       6i0       R0           100 KUlonoatas                                        To    ,             
-   FEDslAN j                                                            U;      0      SD 50 90       60      50        oUtt,Ioa                                       j                                                                                    na
'.        .        R BEIARUD                                                                                                                                i                                                                                       H         y
ipOIAND \\1 K;ao



