Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4084 LT
                            Project Agreement
                            (Highway Project)
                                 between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   and
                        MUNICIPALITY OF VILNIUS
                        Dated September 10, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4084 LT
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF VILNIUS (MV).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Republic of Lithuania (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount equal to nineteen million dollars
($19,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agree-
ment, but only on condition that MV agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and MV, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to MV on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS MV, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
Page  2
therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) MV declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and MV shall otherwise agree, MV
shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the works required for Part B (1) of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. MV shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the
Project.
     Section 2.04. MV shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MV shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) MV shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of Part B of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
     (b)  MV shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by MV of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                      Management and Operations of MV
     Section 3.01. MV shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and tech-
nical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) MV shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project.
     (b)  MV shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
Page  3
               to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of MV thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify MV thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI), or
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
     For Municipality of Vilnius:
          Municipality of Vilnius
          Gedimino pr. 9
          Vilnius 2600
          Republic of Lithuania
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of MV may be taken or executed by the Mayor or such other person
or persons as the Mayor shall designate in writing, and MV shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Page  4
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia
               MUNICIPALITY OF VILNIUS
               By /s/ Alfonsas Eidintas
                                              Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                                 Procurement
Part A:   General
     Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
$1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
Page  5
     With respect to (i) each contract awarded in accordance with Part B
of this Schedule, and (ii) the first two contracts for works awarded in
accordance with Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
1.   Before November 1 of each year during execution of the Project, MV
shall prepare annual work programs and financing plans for work to be
carried out under the Project for the next calendar year and shall
review these programs with the Bank before implementing the annual
work program and financing plan agreed with the Bank. The annual
financing plan shall include, among other things (i) the amount of the
financing needed for MV to carry out Part B of the Project; and (ii)
the projected sources of this financing.
2.   MV shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
Part B of the Project during the period preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by November 1, 1998, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommen-dations of the said report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
