Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4084 LT
                              Loan Agreement
                             (Highway Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 10, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4084 LT
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Municipality
of Vilnius with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Municipality of
Vilnius a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in an
amount equivalent to fourteen million one hundred thousand Dollars
($14,100,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and EBRD;
     (D)  the Borrower intends to contract from European Union Aid for
Eastern Europe (EU-Phare) a grant (the EU-Phare Grant) in an amount
equivalent to one million European Currency Units (ECU1,000,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the EU-Phare Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and EU-Phare;
Page  2
     (E)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Finland (Finland) a grant (the Finnish Grant) in an amount equivalent
to two hundred and ten thousand Dollars ($210,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the Finnish Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Finland; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Municipality of Vilnius;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the follow-
ing additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "DERS" means the Department of Environment Protection and Road
Traffic Safety within the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
     (b)  "LRA" means the Lithuanian Road Administration, a public agency
operating within the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
     (c)  "Investment Manual" means the LRA's investment manual as the
same may be amended from time to time;
     (d)  "Municipalities" means the Municipality of Vilnius and the
Municipality of Kaunas;
     (e)  "Pavement and Bridge Management Systems" means LRA's pavement
and bridge management systems as agreed with the Bank from time to time;
     (f)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within
LRA;
     (g)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
the Municipality of Vilnius of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Road Fund Law" means the Borrower's Road Fund Law adopted by
the Parliament of the Borrower (the Seimas) on January 24, 1995, as
amended on March 28, 1996;
     (i)  "LRA Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (j)  "MV Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "Special Accounts" means the LRA Special Account and the MV
Special Account;
     (l)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Municipality of Vilnius pursuant to
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     (m)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to nineteen million Dollars ($19,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the LRA Special
Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the LRA Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the MV Special
Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the MV Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A)
               one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus)
               the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period,
               below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
               other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect
               of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
Page  4
               allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or
               portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05,
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the
Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Municipality of Vilnius is designated as
representative of the Borrower in respect of Part B of the Project for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Loan Agreement: (i) shall carry out Part A
of the Project through LRA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical
practices; (ii) shall cause the Municipality of Vilnius to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obli-
gations of the Municipality of Vilnius therein set forth, shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable the Municipality of Vilnius to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance; (iii) shall cause the Municipality of
Kaunas to carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and technical practices; and (iv) shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Loan the
amount allocated from time to time to Category 1 (d) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Municipality
of Vilnius under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Municipality of Vilnius, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include (i) the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated and repay-
able in Dollars; (ii) the Municipality of Vilnius shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a variable interest rate equal to the rate applic-
able to the Loan as determined in accordance with Section 2.05 of this
Agreement; and (iii) the term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be seventeen
(17) years including a grace period of five (5) years.
Page  5
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     (d)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accor-
dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project
shall be carried out by the Municipality of Vilnius pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices: (i) the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and (ii)
the operations and financial condition of LRA.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section including those for the Special Accounts
               for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
               priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
               year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
               ably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
Page  6
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Municipality of Vilnius shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Municipality of Vilnius will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project.
     (c)  The Road Fund Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
LRA to fulfill its functions with respect to maintenance of the road
network.
     (d)  The EBRD Loan Agreement, the EU-Phare Grant Agreement, or the
Finnish Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 1, 1997, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                    canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
                    suant to the terms of the agreement providing
                    therefor; or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termina-
               tion or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
               Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
               agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
               available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
               and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  7
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the events specified in paragraph (a) Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph (e)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e)(ii)
of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank
namely: that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Municipality of Vilnius, and is legally binding upon the Municipality
of Vilnius in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
               Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Sermuksniu 6
          2696 Vilnius
          Republic of Lithuania
                                   Telex:
                                   261252 FIMA SU
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
                    REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                    By /s/ Alfonsas Eidintas
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated        % of
                               (Expressed in     Expenditures
     Category                     Dollars)      to be Financed
(1)  Works                                      75%
     (a) For Part A (1)          6,500,000
         of the Project
     (b) For Part A (3)          2,500,000
         of the Project
     (c) For Part A (4)          3,500,000
         of the Project
     (d) For Part B (l)          4,300,000
         of the Project
(2)  Goods for Part A              200,000     100% of foreign
     of the Project                            expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 75% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items procured
                                               locally
(3)  Unallocated                 2,000,000
                                __________
        TOTAL                   19,000,000
                                ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of
the Borrower.
Page  9
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under
Category (1) (d), unless the Bank shall have received evidence satis-
factory to it that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank, has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Municipality
of Vilnius.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (i) for works
under contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent, and (ii) for goods
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist in preserving the
Borrower's road network and to improve the efficiency of the Borrower's
road maintenance operations.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Lithuania Road Administration
(1)  Klaipeda-Vilnius-Belorussian Border East-West Motorway and Regional
     Road Network
     Repair of sections of the Klaipeda-Vilnius-Belorussian Border East-
West Motorway and the Regional Road Network selected in accordance with
the criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(2)  By-passes
     Completion of partially constructed by-passes at Turzenai,
Vilkaviskis, Silute, Siauliai and Daugai.
(3)  Bridges
      Repair of about ten (10) bridges for the main road network.
(4)  Road Safety Program
     Establishment of a Road Safety Program through the provision of
technical assistance to DERS and LRA and carrying out of works to
eliminate accident black spots and to improve road markings, guard
rails and other safety measures.
(5)  Technical Assistance to LRA
      Provision of technical assistance: (a) to assist LRA in identifying
design and maintenance strategies and improving LRA's management systems;
(b) to assist LRA in procurement, supervision of contracts and project
accounting; (c) to provide training for private sector road construction
companies; (d) to conduct a road network study; and (e) to conduct a
study of the required level of financing needed to maintain the public
road network of the Borrower and possible financing and collection
mechanisms.
Part B:   Municipality of Vilnius
(1)  Repair and upgrading of high priority streets selected in accordance
with the criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment; and
(2)  Provision of technical assistance to assist the Municipality of
Vilnius in matters relating to procurement, monitoring, project account-
ing and supervision of civil works.
Page  10
Part C:   Municipality of Kaunas
(1)  Repair and upgrading of streets required for an inner-city by-pass
through the southeastern section of the city of Kaunas; and
(2)  Provision of technical assistance to assist the Municipality of
Kaunas in matters relating to procurement, monitoring, project accounting
and supervision of civil works.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 2002
     through   March 15, 2013            790,000
on September 15, 2013                    830,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                                Procurement
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Page  11
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for works to be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above, shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Road signs and ancillary items required for the carrying out of the
Road Safety Program under Part A (4) of the Project, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with Part
B of this Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts for works under
each of Parts A and B of the Project awarded in accordance with Part
C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall maintain the PIU referred to in Section 1.02 (f)
of this Agreement which, at all times, shall be staffed and shall operate
in accordance with the implementation arrangements agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
2.   The Borrower shall cause LRA to use cost benefit analysis, in
accordance with the principles agreed between LRA and the Bank, to
determine the actual road segments to be repaired under the Project,
as well as for all investments in the road sector during execution of
the Project, and shall only undertake projects with a positive Net
Present Value with priority given to investments with the highest
ratios of Net Present Value to investment costs.
     For the purposes of this paragraph:
Page  12
     "Net Present Value" means the present value of all expected cash
     inflows from an investment discounted at the cost of capital of
     ten percent (10%), compared to the initial investment.
3.   By November 15 of each year during execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause LRA to prepare annual work programs and financing
plans for work to be carried out under the Project for the next
calendar year and shall cause LRA to review these programs with the
Bank before implementing the annual work program and financing plan
agreed with the Bank. The annual financing plan shall include, among
other things, (i) the amount of financing needed for LRA to carry out
its share of Project activities; and (ii) the projected sources of
this financing.
4.   By November 15 of each year during execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause LRA to submit to the Bank the results of the
economic evaluations of all its proposed road maintenance and reha-
bilitation programs for the following year and road projects to be
included in all its investment projects, based on methodologies
established in the Investment Manual and the Pavement and Bridge
Management Systems.
5.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out a study on: (i) the required level of financing
needed to maintain the Borrower's public road network; and (ii) the
possible financing and collection mechanisms for road maintenance,
in accordance with terms of reference agreed with EBRD; and
     (b)  review with the Bank, not later than December 31, 1997, the
results and recommendations of the study referred to in subparagraph
(a) above, and by June 30, 1998, put into effect such recommendations
of the study as shall have been agreed with the Bank including,
without limitation, presentation to the Borrower's Parliament of any
amendments to the Road Fund Law agreed with the Bank.
6.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by November 1, 1998, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommen-
dations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category/ies" means Categories (l) (a), (b)
and (c) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement in the case of the LRA Special Account, and Category (l)
(d) set forth in said table in the case of the MV Special Account;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures, in the
Page  13
case of the LRA Special Account, in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and works required for Part A of the Project and, in the case
of the MV Special Account in respect of the reasonable cost of works
required for Part B of the Project, and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Category/ies in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$1,300,000 in the case of the LRA Special Account and an amount equal
to $600,000 in the case of the MV Special Account to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits
               into the respective Special Account at such intervals as
               the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the respective Special Account
               such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
               to have been paid out of the respective Special Account
               for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
               respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
Page  14
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account minus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit into
the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
