Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7262-GRD 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
GRENADA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 19, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7262-GRD 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 19, 2004, between GRENADA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in financing the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financial assistance towards financing 
the Project and, by the Development Credit Agreement of the same date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,500,000) (the Credit); and 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for the Project before 
disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement (the Loan) are 
made; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2-
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the 
Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in 
the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal 
set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required 
to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3-
 
(c) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s 
environmental impact framework for the Project to be set forth in the Operational 
Manual, that contains specific environmental rules and procedures for Project 
implementation including mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the carrying 
of any civil work(s) under the Project, which safeguards and actions shall be applied to 
prevent or mitigate any possible negative environmental impact said civil work(s) might 
otherwise cause, such as, in particular, increase in deforestation, pollution of 
groundwater, negative impacts on endangered species, increased soil erosion, impacts on 
parks and protected areas, and encroachment on natural habitats; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Hurricane Ivan” means the hurricane which caused extensive wind 
damage and floods in the Caribbean in September, 2004;  
(f) 
“MFP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Planning or any 
successor thereto; 
(g) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit maintained within MFP for 
the purposes referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators to be set forth in the 
Operational Manual, for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of 
Project objectives; 
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
October 22, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods of Project implementation; 
(k) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4-
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars, as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008  or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Page  6
-
5-
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  7
-
6-
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MFP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Operational Manual and with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, 
ecological, environmental, and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of 
the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall issue an operational manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank, containing
,
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the 
carrying out of the Project, including: (i) the Environmental Management Framework; (ii) 
a
model to be used in the preparation of FMRs; and (iii) the Performance Indicators. 
(b) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
(c) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.   
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all time during 
Project implementation, a unit (the PCU) within MFP, with structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
coordination and implementation of the Project; 
(ii) 
monitoring and evaluation of the carrying out of the Project; 
Page  8
-
7-
 
(iii) 
processing of documentation required for disbursement of the 
Loan and Credit proceeds and for procurement of goods, works 
and services under the Project; and 
(iv) 
preparation of the financial statements and FMRs, and 
maintenance of the records and accounts referred to in Article IV 
of this Agreement. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
staff the PCU at all times with at least a Project coordinator, a 
procurement officer, and an accountant, all with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and selected in accordance 
with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank. The accountant and the procurement officer shall serve the 
PCU on a full-time basis; and 
(ii) 
agree with the Bank on any substitution of the PCU’s staff 
referred above, prior to such substitution. 
 
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, by February 28 and August 31 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, semi annual reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
Page  9
-
8-
 
activities (including the status of the procurement under the Project) performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the execution of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of each said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31 and September 30 of each year 
during the implementation of the Project or such later date as the Bank shall request, each 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  10
-
9-
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the PCU, 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  11
-
10-
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement, other than those relating to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.  
Section 5.02. The date February 17, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance and Planning 
Financial Complex 
The Carenage, 
St. George’s, Grenada 
 
Facsimile:  (473) 440-4115 
 
Page  12
-
11-
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12-
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in St. George’s, Grenada, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GRENADA 
 
By /s/ Anthony Boatswain 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey   
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13-
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Credit Allocated 
Expenditure 
 
(Expressed in 
Expressed in 
to be 
 Category
Dollars
)
SDRs
Financed
(1) Works 
3,000,000 
2,100,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods: 
 
(a) Critical Imports 
1,000,000 
700,000 
100% 
 
(b) Other Goods 
430,000 
300,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services, 
410,000 
290,000 
100% 
 including 
audits 
 
(4) 
Operating 
Expenditures 10,000 
8,000 100% 
 
(5)  Front-end Fee 
25,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6)  Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
 
Section 2.09 (d) of 
 Collars 
 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
125,000
102,000
TOTALS 5,000,000
3,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms: 
Page  15
-
14-
 
(a) 
“Critical Imports” means low-sulfur diesel, construction materials and 
medical supplies and equipment  and other goods imported by the Borrower necessary to 
implement the Borrower’s recovery program. 
(b) 
“Operating Expenditures” means expenditures required for the operation 
of the PCU, including the cost of small office equipment and supplies. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,000,000,  may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 
07, 2004. 
4. 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of payments for 
expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) in the table of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, except for reimbursements of expenditures incurred under Part A of the 
Project, unless the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual referred to in 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement. 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures under contracts that are not subject to prior review by 
the Bank pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  16
-
15-
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
Page  17
-
16-
 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17-
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $500,000 until the Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies of 
withdrawals applications that a higher balance is necessary. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  19
-
18-
 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19-
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  21
-
20-
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s recovery program after 
the passage of Hurricane Ivan, including: (i) financing of critical imports; (ii) 
rehabilitating the Borrower’s school infrastructure to ensure a prompt return of children 
to schools; and (iii) supporting the rehabilitation of the Borrower’s healthcare 
infrastructure to ensure adequate access to health care services in the Borrower’s 
territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Critical Imports
Purchase of: (i) low-sulfur diesel fuel for electricity generation; (ii) construction 
materials and equipment; and (iii) medical supplies and equipment, in order to maintain 
economic activity  and to support the Borrower’s recovery program. 
Part B
:
Reconstruction of Schools
Rehabilitation of the Borrower’s education infrastructure through the carrying 
out of civil works and the provision of technical assistance and necessary equipment. 
Part C
:
Restoration of the St. George’s Hospital and Regional Health Facilities
Development and carrying out of a strategy for rehabilitation of the Borrower’s 
health infrastructure through the provision of technical assistance for the design and 
supervision of the rehabilitation works, medical supplies and equipment, and the 
construction or rehabilitation of health posts and other facilities. 
Part D
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the PCU to support Project 
implementation.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  22
-
21-
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2010 through August 15, 2019 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  23
-
22-
 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  24
-
23-
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  25
-
24-
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
4. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Force 
Account  may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
5. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Part B and C 
of the Project, for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools and health service 
facilities, may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
6. 
Procurement of Commodities
.
Procurement of commonly traded commodities 
may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.68 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
7. Imports
.
Special imports may be procured under paragraphs 2.66 and 2.67 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III.
Pa
rticular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis with the Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
Page  26
-
25-
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  
(a) 
each contract for works procured under Part B.2  of Section II of this 
Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and each contract for 
goods procured under Part B.2 of Section II of this Schedule estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
(b) 
each contract for goods procured under Parts B.6 and B.7 of Section II of 
this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(c) 
each contract for goods and works procured under Parts B.3 and B.4 of 
Section II of this Schedule; 
(d) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and 
(e) 
each contract for consulting firms and individual consultants to be 
procured through single source under Parts B.1 and B.2 of Section III to this Schedule 
respectively.  
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank 
 
