                                    Documentof
                                  The World Bank



                                                      ReportNo.: P7643-GD


                               TECHNICAL ANNEX


                                     FORTHE


                        PROPOSEDLOANAND CREDIT


                              INTHEAMOUNT OF


  US$5.0 MILLIONAND SDR 3.5 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                  TO GRENADA


     FORTHE HURRICANE IVANEMERGENCY RECOVERYPROJECT


               INSUPPORT OFTHE FOURTHPHASEOFTHE
            ORGANIZATIONOF EASTERNCARIBBEANSTATES
   EMERGENCYRECOVERYAND DISASTERMANAGEMENT PROGRAM




                                 October27,2004


Finance, Private Sector and InfrastructureDepartment
CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andCaribbeanRegion

                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective October 1,2004)
              Currency Unit=Eastem Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                         US$1 =Dollars (EC) 2.70

                              FISCALYEAR
                         January 1to December 31

                      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                               Metric System

                 ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CARICOM Caribbean Community
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDERA   Caribbean Disaster Emergency ResponseAgency
CDRU    Caribbean Disaster ReliefUnit
CMS     Central Medical Stores
C M U   Country Management Unit
ECHO    European CommissionHumanitarian Office
ECLAC   UNEconomic Commissionfor LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean
ERDMP   Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
EW      Emergency Recovery Project
FMR     FinancialMonitoring Report
GOG     Government o f Grenada
IBRD    IntemationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     IntemationalDevelopment Association
M O H   Ministry o fHealth
NERO    NationalEmergency ResponseOrganization
OAS     Organization o fAmerican States
OECS    Organization o fEastem Caribbean States
PAHO    PanAmerican Health Organization
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
SOE     Statement o f Expenditures
UNDP    UnitedNations Development Program
USAID   U.S. Agency for IntemationalDevelopment
WHO     World Health Organization




             Country Director:            Caroline Anstey
             Acting Sector Director:      JohnH.Stein
             Task Team Leader:

                    TECHNICAL ANNEXES FOR THE PROPOSED
            HURRICANEIVANEMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                                                 FOR GRENADA
                   INSUPPORT OFTHE FOURTHPHASEOF THE
             ORGANIZATION OF EASTERNCARIBBEANSTATES
  EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTERMANAGEMENT PROGRAM



                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS



COUNTRY BACKGROUND............................................................................................                      4
  Economic Development..................................................................................................            4
  Education Sector .............................................................................................................    4
                                                                                                                                    4
GRENADA'S VULNERABILITY TO NATURALDISASTERS ...................................
  Health Sector...................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                    5
DISASTER MITIGATIONEFFORTS ..............................................................................                           5
  Performance on ERDMP ................................................................................................             6
ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGEFROMHURRICANE IVAN...........................................                                                   7
  Description o f Hurricane Ivan ........................................................................................           7
                                                                                                                                    7
  Macroeconomic Impact ..................................................................................................
  General Overview ofthe Damages.................................................................................
                                                                                                                                    8
  Sectoral Impact ...............................................................................................................   8
  Project Priority Sectors - Specific Damage Assessments ..............................................                             9
    Education Sector .........................................................................................................      9
    Health Sector.............................................................................................................     10
    Environmental Damage and Watershed Integrity.....................................................                              11
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ............................................................                                    12
 Linkage with the Country Assistance Strategy.............................................................
  Objectives ..................................................................................................................... 12
                                                                                                                                   12
 Project Descnption........................................................................................................
                . .                                                                                                                12
PROJECT FINANCING...................................................................................................               13
 Overall Bank Support to the Recovery Program ..........................................................                           13
                                                                                                                                   14
PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION.....................................................................................
 Specific Project Financing............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                   16
 Procurement Methods and Special Arrangements ........................................................                             16

 Financial Management..................................................................................................
 BankReview andProcurement RiskAssessment ........................................................                                 18
                                                                                                                                   18
 Audit Arrangements......................................................................................................          19
 Project Sustainability ....................................................................................................       20
 Monitoring Indicators ...................................................................................................         20
 Safeguards.....................................................................................................................   20
 Operation Manual .........................................................................................................        21

                                       Tables

Table 1- SummaryAssessment of Schools Damaged
Table 2 -Bank Funds Allocated to the Recovery Program
Table 3 - Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table 4 -Allocation o f Loadcredit Proceeds
Table 5 -Estimated Disbursements Schedule




                                        - 2 -

                    TECHNICAL ANNEXES FORTHE PROPOSED
            HURRICANE IVANEMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                                      FOR GRENADA
                   INSUPPORTOFTHE FOURTHPHASEOFTHE
               ORGANIZATIONOFEASTERNCARIBBEANSTATES
    EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTERMANAGEMENT PROGRAM


This project i s the fourth phase o fthe Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Emergency
Recoveryand Disaster Management Program. Pursuant to the approval policy established
for Adaptable ProgramLoans, the project hasbeenapproved by the RegionalVice
President. This phase was designed to provide access to emergency financing to a
participatingcountry incase it i s hitby anatural disaster and as such has beenprocessed
under emergency procedure (OPIBP8:50).

Thisprojectproposes to make US$lO millionavailable to Grenada for use inthe
reconstruction o fthe island affected by the passage o fHurricane Ivanon September 7,
2004. These funds are to be offered inthe form o f IBRDloans and IDA credits available
underthe fourth phase o fthe Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Adaptable
ProgramLoan (APL) to which Grenada i s a participant. The majority o fthese hnds will
complement ongoing recovery activities financed throughthe reallocationo f funds from
ongoing Bank projects inthe education andhealth sectors, which have been definedas
keypriorities for the govemment.

Damage to Grenada as a result o fHurricane Ivanwas extensive. A comprehensive
damage assessmentprepared bythe Organization o fEastern Caribbean States (OECS) in
collaboration with UNEconomic Commissionfor LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean
(ECLAC) putsthe total damages at US$900 million, more than twice the country's GDP.
Some 90 percent o f the island's housingstock was damaged with about 40 percent o f the
island's housingdestroyed. Most o f the electrical infrastructure was destroyed with the
exception o f its generating capacity. Health and education infrastructure was particularly
impacted with the secondbiggesthospital andmost schools on the islandrendered
unusable.

The Government has expressedinterest inreceiving assistancefrom the Bank and the
Association to support its reconstruction program and, inparticular, health and education
sectors. A comprehensive programhasbeendesignedalong those lines including the
reallocation o f funds from ongoingprojects. The project proposed below would provide
an additional US$lO million available to support the overall recoveryprogramthrough
the financingofcritical imports (US$2.0 million), the rehabilitationo fschools and
education infrastructure (US$5.0 million), recovery activities inthe health sector (US$2.5
million) and the support o fproject management and supervision (US$0.5 million).




                                            - 3 -

COUNTRY BACKGROUND

Grenada i s one of the southem most islands o fthe Eastern Caribbean chain and lies north
o f Trinidad and Tobago. Ithas apopulation o f approximately 100,000 people and
contains a landarea o f approximately 133 sq. miles includingthe islands o f Caniacou
andPetit Martinique. The mainisland, Grenada, i s dividedinto 6 parishes with St.
George's located at the southem end o fthe island and St. Patrick to the north.

Economic Development

With a GDP o fUS$440million, Grenada's economy is basedprimarilyon the service
sector which accounts for 67 percent o f GDP, and comprises mainly tourism activities.
However, agriculture still accounts for just under 10percent of GDP and a significant
portion o f employment. During 1997-2000, Grenada was the best performing economy
inthe OECS with growthrates averaging 7 percentperyear, albeit basedpartlyon an
extensive public investment programwhich ledto a deterioration o f fiscal balances.
Then, during2001, the economy contracted by4 percent owingto the impact on tourism
from the events o f September 11,2001, and the global economic slowdown. Despite the
situation, inlate 2002, the authorities successfully floated a US$lOO millionbond on the
international capital marketsto refinance onmore favorable terms the earlier public
investments. This raisedthe debt to GDP ratio to around 113 percent o f GDP. In2003,
the economy experienced a significant rebound with growth of 5.7 percent andwas
expected to grow bynearly 4 percent in2004, prior to Hurricane Ivan, driven
predominantly by a strong recovery intourism.

EducationSector

The education sector hasreceived strong political and social support over the last three
decades. Inthe earlynineties, the Government initiated efforts to reform the education
system with an emphasis placed on strengthening the institutionalcapacity o fthe
education systemby improvingquality and expanding access. The Government o f
Grenada (GOG) has maintained a continuous commitment to education over the past 30
years that has led to nearlyuniversalcoverage inprimary education. The GOGhas
agreedto maintain significant and consistent public investmentineducation, as indicated
bythe levels o feducation expenditureas apercentage o f GDP andplacedemphasis on:
(i)providing greater access by increasing the numbero f spaces available insecondary
school, targeting overcrowded schools and areas with low income student populations;
and (ii) refurbishingexistingfacilities, especially inschools with fewer resources, to
provide equitable access to secondary education.

Health Sector

The Ministryo fHealth (MOH) o f Grenada i s responsible for policy-making, planning,
programming and regulation. Within the ministry, there are five key functional areas: (i)
administration; (ii) care (hospitals); (iii)
                    acute                       mentalhealth; (iv) community services;
and (v) environmental health. These areas are functionally divided into divisions, units



                                            - 4 -

 or departments inorder to administer the development o f programs and manage
 operations. Health services are provided bybothpublic facilities and a growingprivate
 sector. Public ambulatory health care services are delivered through a network o f thirty
 medical stations and six district health centers. These are distributed over seven
 administrative health districts. Public hospital services (up to secondary hospital care)
 are provided bythe 240-bed general hospital inSt. George's, Princess Alice Hospital (60
 beds) inGrenville, and a 40-bed hospital inCarriacou. Other public inpatient services
 include an 80-bed psychiatric hospital, a 120-bed geriatric hospital, andtwo 16-bed
 facilities, one for substance abuse patients and another for the treatment o f disabled
 children.

 GRENADA'S VULNERABILITYTO NATURALDISASTERS

 Grenada's geographical location, inthe southern end o f the hurricane belt, makes it
 highlyvulnerable to naturaldisasters. The most frequent ones are those relatedto
 hurricanes and flooding, but Grenada may also be affected by occasional volcanic and
 earthquake activities. These natural disasters can produce severe impacts to the
 economy, property, humanhealth andwelfare, and the island's natural resources.

Duringthe last century, Grenada was struck bythree hurricanes and experienced one
major flood. The country is subjected annually to storm surges that batter the coastline
andinNovember, 1999, sufferedmajor damage from storm surge flooding caused by
Hurricane Lenny.

DISASTERMITIGATIONEFFORTS

Grenada and its neighbors have sought to reduce their vulnerability through a program o f
disaster prevention and mitigationcoupled with recoverylrelief planning. These activities
have been conducted through a Bank sponsored APL entitled "Emergency Recovery and
Disaster Management Program," or ERDMP. Inaddition, Grenada, like other OECS
countries, has partnered with many international organizations such as the Organization
o fAmerican States (OAS) and the PanAmerican HealthOrganization (PAHO) to reduce
its vulnerability to natural disasters.

Inresponse to the lessons learnedfrom hurricanes Luis (Category 4) andMarilyn
(Category 3) in 1995, the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA)
adopted a regional approach for dealing with natural disasters. Consequently, CDERA is
prepared to offer a full range o f assistance activities depending on the severity o f the
disaster and the requests ofthe host country. A level I11(maximum) response is defined
by CDERA as:

"Disasters which overwhelm the capacity of the affected state@)to respond. I n such
instances the Regional ResponseMechanism is activated. This includes the activation of
the Caribbean Disaster Relief Unit (CDRU) which is the operational arm of the Regional
ResponseMechanism. The CDRUcomprises representatives from the militaryforces




                                              - 5 -

within CARTCOMand its main responsibility is logistical supportfor the receipt and
dispatch of relief supplies."

This facility was triggered after the passage o fthe Hurricane Ivanon September 7,2004
and Grenadabenefited from extensive assistance from CDERA and other relief agencies.

Performance on ERDMP

A satisfactory rating onthe implementationo fERDMPis a condition to accessthe
contingent financing available under Phase 4 o f the program. At the time that Hurricane
Ivanstruck Grenada, the ERDMPwas beingimplemented at a satisfactory level'. Key
components included:

    (i)      Strengthening institutional disaster management capacity
    (ii)     Development o f an early warning system
    (iii)    Construction and retrofitting o f shelters
    (iv)     Strengthening o f national emergency response capacity
    (v)      Construction o fpreventative physical mitigationworks
    (vi)     Commissioning o f several vulnerability andprotection planning studies

As part o fthe project, Grenadanamed aNational Disaster Coordinator. The coordinator
is responsible for implementing the elements o f ERDMP and for bringingthe national
andlocalagencies and groups together to promote disaster mitigation, stimulate
preparedness, and coordinate relief operations.

Much o f the retrofitting o f shelters and schools had already taken place and the
strengthened buildings were virtually the only structures left unharmed inthe aftermath
o fthe hurricane. The retrofitted shelters operated effectively andthe two schools
retrofitted by the Bank Education Program not only survived without significant damage,
butwere also being used as shelters at the time the Bank team performedtheir disaster
assessment.

The national response to the disaster was mixed, partlybecause the disaster overwhelmed
the national capacity to respond andpartlybecause the new National Emergency Relief
Organization (NERO) hadnot yet moved inthe newlybuild Emergency Operation
Center, and hadnot completed the plannedpreparations under ERDMP.Inaddition,
communication equipment purchasedunder the program had not yet been installed.




'Though  serious concerns had been raised by the Bank regarding the institutional capacity ofthe country to
prepareanddeal with adverse natural events.


                                                  - 6 -

 ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGE FROM HURRICANE IVAN~

 Description o f Hurricane Ivan

 Hurricane Ivanstruck Grenada with full force on September 7,2004 between 14:OO hrs
 and 19:OO hrs. At that time, the stormwas classified as category 3 onthe Safford-
 Simpson scale with sustained winds o f 120mphand gusts recorded o f up to 135 mph.
 The storm moved through Grenada fairly rapidly and did not produce a large volume o f
 rainfall, therefore causing little damage to roads and bridges on the island.

 Based on the pattern o f downed trees and distribution o f damages, microburst downdrafts
 appear to have been a major source o f the damages experienced. No evidence was noted
 byteam members o ftornado touchdown, however, giventhe type o fdamage observed
 including cars andtrucks blown over, telephone poles snapped, structures completely
 destroyed, wind bursts o f 135 to 145 mphseem to have affected most o f the southern
 region. Duringthe course o f the storm, the area o f St. George's appears to have been
 exposed to the eye-wall section o f the storm for the majority o f the event.

 General Overview o f the Damages

 Hurricane Ivanaffected the entire island o f Grenada. The vast majority o f the severe
 damage was experienced inthe southernportion o f the islandbelow a line drawn roughly
 from Grenvilleto just north o f St. George's. Visible damages included the partial or total
 loss o fbuildingstructures, broken and uprootedtrees, broken utility poles and damaged
vehicles.

As Ivanwas a relatively dry hurricane, damage from flooding and mudslide was not
 extensive. Streams did flood andwhere debris piled up to block water flow, inareas such
 as bridges and culverts, flooding was more pronounced. Roadways were blocked by
debris and fallen trees, but generally remained intact with little evidence o f landslides or
washouts. The storm surge associated with Ivanwas apparently not a major factor and
Bankfinanced sea defenses appear to have resistedthe wave action forces without major
damage.

The electrical distribution network and communications gridwere the public utilities
most affected by the storm. Telephone access was damaged but mobile communication
was back inoperation within a matter o f a few days after the storm. The water
distribution system was only partially affected, largely due to loss o f electrical power.
Airport andport facilities suffered damages but were receiving traffic and are presently
nearly 100percent functional. Boththe port and airport lost lighting systems and are
currently restricted to daylight operations only. Warehouses inbothfacilities lost roofs
andcladding.



  This sectionhas been summarized from the World Bank `Preliminary Damage Assessment Report' and
the OECS/ECLAC report `Grenada: Macro-Socio-Economic Assessment of the damages caused by
Hurricane Ivan,' both o fwhich canbe found inthe project files.


                                                 - 7 -

 Watershed loss i s extensive with large numbers o f trees down or damaged. Agricultural
 resources are severely affected however, for the present, water sources and agricultural
 lands are inrelatively good condition. Crop damage isnearly 100percent for banana and
 sugar cane. Nutmeg and other spice production infrastructure is seriously affected.
Nutmegplantations inSt. Andrew parish were devastated.

Public infrastructure suffered major losses. St. George's Hospital experienced major
 damage incertain sections but has remained functional. Princess Alice Hospital(the
island's second biggest) was more than 70 percent destroyed. Only 2 o f the island's 75
primary and secondary schools survived with minimal damage. Other government
buildings, including the government complex have suffered significant damage.

As a result o f the hurricane, the capacity o f the Government o f Grenada to manage the
disaster was quickly overwhelmed. This was due inpart to the extensive damage
suffered inthe area o f the seat o f government and to the extensive personal losses
sufferedby the public service workforce. Inregional terms, the disaster was a level I11
event under CDER4's guidelines prompting the activation o f the CDRU.

Macroeconomic Impact

Preliminary estimates o f the damages from Hurricane Ivanby the OECS Secretariat and
ECLAC are on the order o fjust over US$900 million, or more than double the Grenadian
GDP for 2003. Because tourism andagriculture, the two main foreign exchange earning
sectors were very hard hit-most tourism facilities will not reopen until after the high
season, and the nutmeg, banana and sugar crops for 2004 were largely destroyed -the
external current account deficit i s expected to widen from 35 percent o f GDP in2003 to
just nearly 40 percent ofGDP in2004. After two years o fimprovingfiscal balances with
primary surpluses, the fiscal situation has become extremely difficult with the increase in
unanticipated expenditures andmuch o f the tax base destroyed- the fiscal deficit i s
expected to at least double from the 5 percent in2004. Preliminary estimates suggest
that the fiscal gap through end 2004 is on the order o f US$40 millionor 9 percent o f
GDP.

While the extent o f the short term impact on economic growth in2004 and2005 is not
yet clear - giventhe increasedreconstruction activity which will replace some of the lost
production inkey sectors - Grenada stands to lose significant momentum interms o f long
term development, because it must now replace, rather than extend, a significant portion
o f its capital stock and forego a period o f continuous productivity improvements

Sectoral Impact

According to official estimates by the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) andthe OECS `Macro-Socio-Economic
Assessment o fthe Damages Caused by Hurricane Ivan,' the total cost o f the damages
resulting from Hurricane Ivanis estimated to be roughly US$900 million. This sum
amounts to slightly more than twice the current value o f GDP o f US$440 million. Direct



                                               - 8 -

damages are responsible for about 89 percent o f this estimate. Indirect damages account
for the remaining 11percent o fthe damage.

Housingwas hardhitwith approximately 89 percent o f the housing stock registering
some type o f damage causedbythe hurricane. This i s roughly equivalent to 1.4 times
GDP.

The agricultural sector suffered damages equivalent to about 10percent o f GDP. The
direct damagewas o f about the same magnitude o f the indirect damages. Traditional
crops were virtually wiped out and this source o f incomewill not be easily substituted.

Inthe case oftourism, direct damagesare estimatedat about 41percent ofGDP. This
reflects not only the damage to tourist accommodations but also to yachts and
recreational boating facilities.

Damages to the electrical sector were largely focused on the transmission and distribution
system. Estimates from USAIDteams suggestedthat over 80 percent ofthe transmission
infrastructure was lost inthe form o f damaged and uprootedpoles and lost and damaged
wiring. Generation capacity was left largely intact. Damages to buildings, structures and
collocated telecommunications facilities (wires etc.) are also significant.

Finally, damage to the education sector i s estimated at approximately 20 percent o f GDP.
The impacts o fHurricane Ivanto the education sector were nothing short o f devastating.
The resulting secondary impacts associatedwith this loss will transcend the disaster
recovery phase and cross over to the longer-term social objectives o fthe nation. Ifnot
properlymanaged, these impacts could have generational consequences.

Detailedinformation can be obtained from both the OECS/ECLAC andBank damage
assessmentswhich are available inthe project files.

Project Priority Sectors - Specific Damage Assessments

Education Sector

Damage to the education sector was secondonly to the housing sector inits severity.
Schools inall Parishes and at all levels were affected including 74 pre-primary, 57
primaryand 19 secondary schools for atotal 150 schools. Some schools also suffered
damages resulting from their subsequentuse as shelters. Over 40,000 students are
presentlyout o f school. This includes about 30,481 primary schoolchildren and, at the
secondary level, 4,032 boys and 5,486 girls who are unable to attend classes.

Typical losses, presentedinTable 1, includepartial or total collapse o froofstructures,
collapse o fwalls inolder structures and rainwater damage to classrooms, offices and
other structures. Aside from the structural losses, books, lab equipment, teaching aids,
and teaching tools have been damaged beyondrepair. In some cases, lootinghas further
exacerbatedthe losses realized.



                                            - 9 -

 The estimatedloss attributed to this sector is US$72.5 milliondollars. A more correct
 figure, however, would be approximately US$SOmillion3.This figure would more
 accurately reflect the damage to the entire network of schools and skills training
 institutionsinthe country.

 Finally, it i s worthy o fnote that the two surviving schools were the object o f a recent
 World Bank retrofitting program. These schools, inparticular, the school at Westerhall,
 survivedwith only minor damages, and are currently servingas temporary housing for
 those made homeless by the hurricane.


                  Table 1- Summary Assessmentof Schools Damaged

                                                            Average level
                        Parish                              of Damages
                        Carriacou & Petite Martiniaue Level 1
                        1st. Patrick                        lLevel2
                        1st. Mark                           lLevel3            II




                        Legend:
                        ND        No damages
                        Level 1 Windows, doors and furnishingdestroyed or damaged
                        Level 2   Partialroofcovering destroyed or damaged
                        Level 3   Roof structure destroyedor damaged
                        Level 4   Complete roof destroyed
                        Level 5   Significant damage to structural frame

Health Sector

According to the OECWECLAC report, damage to the major public hospitals, health
centers and other healthcare institutions has been estimated at US$4 million. An
assessmento fPAHO estimates the damage as US$5.3 million. Both assessments exclude
damage to some o fthe health centers and medical stations. The destruction and damage
has severely degraded the level and quality o f services currently available to the
population.

The medical laboratory o f St. George's Hospital, the central secondary care facility with
200 beds, sustained severe damage and remains out o f service. The laboratory lost
approximately 40 percent o f its roof, 25 percent o f windows, andmost o fthe equipment

  Ths information was based on discussions with govemment officials and verified by the independent
information collected.


                                                -10-

 and chemical testing reagents were destroyed. A complete assessment is pending. As
 laboratory facility at St. George's Hospital i s the only provider for many key laboratory
 services, there is an urgentneed to construct and equip a new laboratory as soon as
 possible.

 Other damage to the St. George's hospital includes the destruction o f the roofs o f several
 ancillary buildings within the hospital complex. Damages to St. George's Hospital total
 approximately US$1.6 million.

 The 60 bedPrincess Alice HospitalinSt. Andrew was virtually destroyed. More than 90
percent o f the roofwas lost and most o f the equipment, fumiture, and supplies were
 either destroyedby water damage or looted. Within the hospital complex, the roofs o f
 the nurse hostel and o f a doctors' quarter were completely detached; another doctors'
residence was completely destroyed. The cost for reconstruction o f the hospital complex
 are estimated at US$1.3 million.

The remaining two hospitals inGrenada, the psychiatric hospital and Carriacou's
Princess Royal Hospital, were largely spared. Princess Royal, a 35 bedhospital,
 sustained damage to its roof and suffered contamination o f its cistern water supply.

Other damages included:

     (i)     the loss o f roofat the Central Medical Stores (CMS) complex and damage to
             medical supplies;
     (ii)    the loss o f the roof at the Richmondhome for the elderly and the Carlton Drug
             Rehabilitation Center; and o f
     (iii)   the 36 medical stations, eight completely lost their roofs andremain out o f
             service.

Finally, there was varying damage to the remaining peripheral clinics, ranging from
partially destroyed roofs, broken doors and windows, and disrupted electricity lines.

Environmental Damage and WatershedIntegrity

Damage to the natural features o f Grenada was widespread. Inthe parish o f St. Andrew,
the Grand EtangForest Reserve suffered extensive and severe damage. On inspection, an
estimated 50 percent o f the canopy trees are on the ground. The remaining 50 percent
have been stripped o f virtually all their leaves and suffered significant bark limb damage.
The ability o f the forest to maintain its microclimate, particularly on the west or wet side
o f the central mountains, has been severely impaired. The ecological recovery of the
westem (wet) slopes o f the GrandEtang will likely occur with difficulty. The dry side
(east) will likely recover more quickly.

The watershed damage is o f particular concem due to the potential for increased erosion
andflooding. Damageto the central andsouth-eastem mountains is extensive andwill
take years to recover. Ground cover will likely retum quickly, but the ability o f the



                                              -11 -

watershed to provide flood and erosion control services i s limited. Watershed damages
will likelyaffect the water supply, agriculturalandhealthsectors. Additionally, the
tourism value o fmany o f the natural habitats o fthe regionhasbeengreatly diminishedas
coastal zone damages appear limited.

PROJECTOBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION

Linkagewith the Country Assistance Strategy

The ERDMP Programdirectly supports the principal goals ofthe previous OECS
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated May 4, 1995 (whenthe ERDMP Programwas
started) and o f the latest CAS discussedon June 28,2001 which seeks to support poverty
reductionbyhelpingmitigateincome insecurity and vulnerability.

Objectives

Theproject will support the recovery efforts o fthe Government of Grenada throughthe
financing o f critical imports andrehabilitation activities inkey social sectors. Financing
i s provided on an emergency basis to avoid the usual time lag between the end o f the
reliefperiod andreconstruction. Dueto the catastrophic lossesinthe education and
health sectors, andtheir core importance to Grenadian society, the focus o f this project
will beto rehabilitate infrastructure inthese areas. Specific objectives include:

     (1)    Supporting the Government's overall reconstruction programthrough the
            financing o fcritical imports;
     (2)    Restoringschool infrastructure to an operational level and ensure a prompt
            returnofchildrento schools;
     (3)    Supporting the rehabilitationo f the healthcare infrastructure to ensure
            adequate access to quality health services throughout the island.

Proiect Description

This project will consist o f four components including:

    (I) Financingofcriticalimports;
    (11)   Assistance to the recovery o fthe education sector;
    (111)  Assistance to the recovery o fthe health sector;
    (IV)    Support to Project Management and Supervision.

I. Financingofcriticalimports(US2.0million). Thiscomponentwillfinancethe
        import o f low-sulfur diesel fuel necessary for electricity generation and
        transportation neededto maintaineconomic activity, as well as other critical
        imports. Other imports covered include constructionmaterials and equipment in
        addition to medical supplies and equipment for the overallreconstruction effort.
        The inclusiono fthese imports i s based on an assessment o f Grenada's monthly
        import bill and a review o f satisfactory procurement practices.



                                            -12-

 11.    Rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools (US$5.0 million). One o fthe most
        urgent reconstructionpriorities o f the govemment is the rebuilding o f damaged or
        destroyed schools. Only 2 o f the 75 primary and secondary schools on the island
        are currently inan operational condition. Reconstructionwill be implemented in
        two phases: an initial rehabilitation phase to make facilities operationally
        functional where students will be able to attend school on a shift system; and a
        fullreconstructionphase to complete repairs andbringaffected schools inline
        with appropriate standards. This component will finance the technical assistance
        for the design and supervision o f the reconstruction, the actual rehabilitation
        works, as well as the purchase o f school supplies whenthese have been destroyed
        or damaged.

 111.   Restoration of St. George's Hospital and regional healthfacilities (US$2.5
        million). The principal hospital on the island suffered roofdamage resulting in
        the loss o f its laboratory facility. As this facility is essential to the islandhealth
        care system, it must be restored as soon as possible. Inthe vicinity o f Grenville,
        on the eastern side o f the island, Princess Alice Hospital has beenvirtually
        destroyed. Other health care facilities around the island have been damaged and
        are inneed o frepairs. This component wilI finance the technical assistance
        necessary to develop a strategy for addressing rehabilitation works, the physical
        rehabilitation o f health infrastructure, and the purchase o f medical supplies and
        equipment when these have been damagedby the Humcane.

IV.     Support to Project Management and Supervision (US$0.5 million). While the
       project will be implementedby the same PCU currently implementing the
        ERDMP, ERP, HIV/AIDS and OECS Educationprojects, additional resources
       will be needed to face the current emergency and increased workload in
       processing and supervising contracts. This component will finance limited office
        equipment and technical assistance to support implementation duringthe first year
        o f the project.


PROJECT FINANCING

Overall Bank Support to the Recovery Program

The Government o f Grenadahas set up a reconstruction agency andis preparing a
recovery plan for the country. The proposed project is part o f a US$20 millionrecovery
packageprepared by the Bank to support this recovery program. Inaddition to the
US$lO millionreleased under the Phase 4 o f the ERDMP-APL, four Bankprojects under
implementation inGrenadawill provide funding for the recovery efforts through existing
components or through amendments.

This includes, (i) reallocationo fUS$450,000 from the EmergencyRecovery Project
                   the
(Em)tofinancecriticalimports; (ii) useofUS$3.0millionunderPhase2ofERMDP
                                         the



                                              - 13 -

   to procure additional emergency equipment and further vulnerability reduction activities;
   (iii) restructuringoftheHIV/AIDSPreventionandControlProjecttoallowfor
         the
   US$1.3 millionto respondto additional challenges inthe prevention o f the disease post
   hurricane Ivan, to provide technical assistance inthe reconstruction efforts andto
   reconstruct and rehabilitate priority facilities; and (iv) the shifting o f approximately
   US$5.0 millionunder the OECS EducationDevelopment Program to the reconstruction
   o f schools.

   Inrecognition ofthe devastation causedbythe hurricane, the donor community quickly
   mobilized relief efforts inGrenada to assist inthe recovery. Less than one month after
   Ivanstruck the island, the Government o f Grenada, with the assistance o fthe Bank,
   organized a donors meeting, on October 4,2004, which coincided with the IMF/World
   Bank annual meetings. The meeting, which acknowledged the severity o f the emergency,
   i s expected to generate additional funds for Grenada which will be pledged at a follow-up
   meeting to take place inthe middle of November. These funds are expectedto support
   the Government's reconstructionprogram by contributing to these and other
   rehabilitation efforts.

                     Table 2 -BankFundsAllocatedto the Recovery Program

                                                      Reallocation ofFunds                Hurricane Ivan
Project Component                               Fromon-going BankProjects* EmergencyRecoveryProject

Critical Imports                                            US$450,000                    US$2.0 million
                                                            (fromERP)

Education Rehabilitation                                  USS5.3 million                  USS5.0 million
                                                     (from OECS Education)

Health Rehabilitation                                    US$1.3million                    US$2.5 million
                                                        (from HIV/AIDS)
Support to Project Management
and Supervision, including contingencies                                                  US$0.5 million
  * In additionto a reallocation o f funds approximately US$2.95 under ERDMP will be usedfor the
  rehabilitation o f schools and shelters, and to further strengthen the disaster management capacity of the
  country

  Specific Project Financing

  The proposedrecovery project will be financed through funds available under phase 4 o f
  the ERDMPAPL. Under the APL,US$lO million incontingent credit was earmarked
  for use by a participating country for emergency recovery activities inthe event o f a
  natural disaster. To access these funds, participating countries must meet three eligibility
  criteria: (1) the project implementation must be rated as satisfactory at the time o f the
  disaster; (2) the country must declare a State o f Emergency; and (3) the recognition by
  the international community o f the emergency nature o f the disaster. Since ERDMP
  project implementation was rated satisfactory, the Prime Minister declared a State o f


                                                        - 14-

  Emergency, andthe international community has respondedwith vigor through an
  organized reliefeffort andthe successful donors' meeting, Grenada has satisfied all
  conditions necessaryto access the contingency financing.

  The financing consists o f 50 percent IBRDfunding, and 50 percent IDA credit. Given
  Grenada's current fiscal constraints, it i s proposed that the Bank finance 100percent o f
  the project's expenditures. Upto 20% oftotalproject hndsmaybe allocated towards
  retroactive financing for activities procured after September 7,2004.

  Grenada's current outstanding debt to the Bank i s approximately US$24.9 millionat end
  September 2004 o fwhich US$6.8 millionrepresent IBRD obligation^.^ This represented
  for 7 percent o fthe country's external public sector debt of about US$341 million(at the
  endof2003). Estimated annual debt service obligationsto the Bank (assuming timely
  full disbursementofthe current portfolio) average US$1.3 millionthrough2040, of
  which IBRDobligations representUS$1 millionper year through 2018. With the
  proposed new commitments, annual obligations wouldrise to approximately US$1.6
  million5through 2040, with the IBRDobligations increasing to around US$1.5 million
  through 2019. Currently debt obligations to the Bank are being serviced ina timely
  manner, including arecent post-Ivanpayment ofUS$310,000, although arrearshave
  emergedonpayments to other creditors and Grenada's external bonds have recently been
  downgraded from BB-to B-.The Government has recently announced its intention to
  seek the cooperation o f its creditors duringthe critical reconstruction period. Multilateral
  debt accounts for 27 percent o fGrenada's external debt and21percent ofits total debt.

  During1997-2000, Grenadawas the bestperforming economy inthe OECS with annual
  growth rates averaging 7 percent. Although the economy contracted during2001-02
  owing to the post September 11,2001 contraction intourism and general slowdown in
  the global economy, prior to HurricaneIvanGrenada hadexperienced asignificant
  rebound with growth o f 5.7 percent in2003 andwas expected to grow by nearly 4
  percent in2004. However, the public sector debt-to-GDP ratio reached 113 percent o f
  GDP on account ofpublic borrowingto finance large investmentprograms. Prior to
  Hurricane Ivan, the Government has respondedby increasing efforts at fiscal
  consolidation, including the approval o f a mediumterm programto regain debt
  sustainability through inter alia re-establishment o f a VAT, significant reductions intax
  concessions and inpublic expenditure. A primary surplus was achieved for the first time
  in10years in2003, andthe fiscal deficit improved sharply in2003 from-19 percent of
  GDP in2002, andwas expected to fall to -5 percent in2004.

 Despite the enormous reconstruction needs, Grenada's mediumterm growth prospects
remainpositive. The country has achieved a higher level o fdiversification inagricultural
 exports than its neighbors, and was makinggood progress indiversifying services exports
 from tourism to ICT-related services. Moreover, a major constraint to growth inthe
OECS -a shortage o fskilledlabor-i s beingaddressedbythe growth inprivate tertiary

~~        ~




   Undisbursed commitments and the proposed new commitment total an additional US$28.8 million, of
which US$15.7million would be IBRDlending.
   Assuming fixed interest rate at today's swapped rate o f 5 percent.


                                                    - 15 -

 education inGrenada. Notably, St. George's Universityhas already resumed classes
 since the hurricane. It should also be noted that reconstruction can accelerate some o f the
 necessary structural adjustments, e.g. the replanting o f nutmeg trees will provide an
 opportunity to use more varieties andrebuilding o f hotels can lead to an upgrading o f the
physical plant needed to better face new external competition.


 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

 This project will use the same implementation arrangements that are inplace for the
 current ERDMP, ERP and HIV/AIDS projects with one small modification. The Project
 Coordinating Unit (PCU) under the purview o f the Ministryo f Finance's will be
 strengthened andwill work inclose collaboration with the relevant line ministries. The
P C U(under the Ministry of Finance) will be responsible for the overall coordination o f
the project. While line agencies will remainresponsible for project implementation, the
P C Uwill act as a service center, assistingthem with all fiduciary aspects (e.g.
procurement, contracting, financial reporting and audits) required duringthe execution o f
the project. The Bank underscored the needto swiftly appoint new staff to the PCU,
which will be a disbursement condition on the loan.

An actionplan for the strengthening o fthe PCUwas developed duringproject
preparation, and the Government is takingmeasures to address some o f the deficiencies
that hadrecently emerged inthe P C Uby appointing an experienced Procurement Officer.
An additional staffmember is to be appointed and arrangements are beingmade with the
Government o f Dominica to provide an experienced Procurement Officer to assist in
project implementation. Additionally, since a qualified accountant must be added to the
P C Uinorder to implement report based disbursements, the Government is currently
considering the appointment o f an experienced accountant .

Implementation will also focus on outside donor coordination. The Bank organized an
initial donor meeting inWashington, D C on October 4 andparticipated inan additional
donor conference which focused solely on the rehabilitation of the education sector. A
consultant has beenhiredto assist the Borrower with the organization o f the upcoming
donor meeting inGrenada to help facilitate successful coordination.

Procurement Methods and Special Arrangements

Modifications to the standard procurement methods employed under Bank financing are
beingproposed to accommodate the emergency nature o fthe project inorder to allow
rapid sourcing and procurement o f goods and services required for reconstruction, but
remain within the framework provided under "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits," M a y 2004 and"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers,'' M a y 2004.

Inparticular, procurement thresholdsrequiringBankreview andapproval havebeen
raised and procedures have been slightly relaxedto allow increaseduse o f single source,



                                            - 1 6 -

 shopping, and quotation mechanisms for the purchase o f goods and services. A summary
 o f these requirements is presented inTable 3, Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and
 Prior Review. These procedures were designed to allow the initiationo frecovery
 activities at the earliest possible time given the extensive nature o f the damage.



          Table 3 Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review
                   -

         Expenditure         Contract Value           Procurement           Contracts Subject
          Category            (Threshold in             Method                      to
                             US$ thousands)                                   Prior Review

       1. Works                <3,000,000           Three quotations           All above
                                                                              US$500,000

                                <500,000            Direct Contracting            All

                             Irrespective o f        Force Account                All
                                 amount

                             Irrespective of    Community participation          None
                                 amount


                                <500,000                Shopping                 None

                           Imports under para.   Irrespective of amount        All above
                              2.66 and 2.67                                   US$500,000

                           Commodities under     Irrespective of amount        All above
                                para. 2.68                                    US$500,000

                                <500,000           Direct Contracting             All

      3. Services

       A. Firms              Irrespective o f        Single Source                All
                                Amount

       B.Individuals         Irrespective of         Single Source                All
                                 amount




The Government should select an individualconsultant (or extend the contract o f one o f
the two consulting firms present on site for design and supervision inorder to cover
inspection agent's tasks with his staff) to act as inspection expert for all the works and
supplies interms o f providing to the Bank (before signature o fthe relevant contracts) a
report on comparison and reasonableness o fprices as well as checking quality and
quantities o f the same before final acceptance.



                                              - 17-

Bank Review andProcurement RiskAssessment

Supervision o f the project will be regular and frequent during the initial 6 month
implementation period. This will be required due to the emergency nature o f the project
and the need to assist the P C Uwith its procurement requirements. As the Coordinating
P C Ucompletes its reorganization and develops its procurement capacity, Bank
supervision will become less intense. Bank supervision missions are recommended every
6 months for the first 2 years and annually for the remaining life o fthe project. The
project i s expected to reach completion by end FY08.

While the procurement procedures have been modifiedto accommodate the disaster, the
modifications to the P C Uandprocurement centralization provides adequate security for
the process. This, coupled with frequent Bankreview duringthe initial 6 monthperiod,
places the overall procurement risk assessment for this project at Average.

Financial Management

The flow o f funds for this project calls for Loadcredit funds to be channeled to the
project through a Special Account denominated inU S Dollars. This account is to be
established by the P C Uina commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank. The P C Uwill
also operate a local currency Special Account to finance project expenditures inlocal
currency. The account will be managed inaccordance with the procedures and guidelines
set forth inthe Bank's Disbursement Handbook.

Once a qualified accountant i s appointed to the PCU, disbursements will be made based
on FMRs. These reports will be submitted to the Bank quarterly, along with a
withdrawal application allowing for Bank fimds to be periodically transferred to this
account inan amount to cover no more than 180 days o f projected expenditures.




                                            - 1 8 -

                        Table 4 Allocation of Loadcredit Proceeds
                                -

                                         Amount ofthe       Amount of the Financing
                                         LoanAllocated     Credit Allocated Percentage
      ExpenditureCategory                     (US$>             (SDR)       (percent)
       1.Works                                3,000,000       2,100,000        100
       2. (a) Critical Imports                1,000,000         700,000        100
          (b) Other goods                       430,000         300,000        100
       3. Consultants Services                  410,000         290,000        100
       4. OperatingExpenditures                   10,000          8,000        100


      Front-endFee                                25,000
      Unallocated                               125,000         102,000
      Total                                   5,000,000       3,500,000


      SpecialAccount: US$l,OOO,OOO
      SDRExchangeRate (US$/SDR):                    1.46779


         Table 5 EstimatedDisbursementsSchedule(Bank FY/US$ million)
                    -

                     FY           2005          2006      2007        2008
                     Annual        2.0          4.0        3.0         1.o
                     Cumulative    2.0          6.0        9.0        10.0


     Project Implementationperiod: 3 years
     Expected Effectiveness date: 11/20/2004           Expected Closing date: 06/30/2008


Audit Arrangements

Project financial statementswould be audited annually. The audit reports would be
prepared inaccordance with InternationalStandards on Auditing, by independent
auditors and following TOR acceptable to the Bank. The preparation o f a satisfactory
TOR and o f a letter o f appointment o fthe external auditor for Bankreview and approval
will be a conditionofdisbursement ofthe loan. The audit report will include supporting
schedules providing sufficient information on the project ( i.e. Sources and Uses o f
Funds, Statement o fExpenditures (SOE), andthe Special Account). The amounts in
these financial statementswould be requiredto be reconciledwith the amounts inthe
Bank's and IDA'Sdisbursement records. The project's annual audit report i s to be
submittedto the Bank no later than4 months following the endof the fiscal year (January
1-December 31).



                                            - 1 9 -

 Detailed supporting documentation, including certification, for expenditures will be kept
 bythe PCUfor at least one fiscal year, after the Bankhas receivedthe audit report for the
 year inwhich the last withdrawal from the Loan and Credit accounts was made and
 submittedto the Bank. For all contracts requiring the Bank'sprior review, full
 documentation will accompany no-objection requests. Detailed documentation will be
 retainedby the PCU for inspection during supervision missions and for audit by external
 auditors acceptable to the Bank.

 Proiect Sustainability

 The initial assessment o f damages inGrenada shows that buildingstructures (housing,
 schools, government buildings, etc.) were particularly affected. At the same time,
 structures built or retrofitted inrecent years under World Bank projects survived the
 storm with little or no damage. This demonstrates the benefits o f applying hurricane
 resistant standards to vulnerable construction. Strong emphasis will be placed inthe
 project implementation to ensure that vulnerabilities are not rebuilt. Hurricane resistant
 standards similar to those used inprevious rehabilitation projects will be applied to the
 reconstruction of schools and health facilities. In addition to the incorporation o f these
 standards inBank sponsored construction, it is hopedthe concept will be extended, by
 example, to non-Bank financed recovery efforts.

 Further strengthening o f disaster management capacity inGrenada will carry onunder the
 ongoing Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management project to promote additional
 vulnerability mapping, protection andresponse planning, andthe continued construction
 o f physical mitigationworks.

 Monitoring Indicators

 A progress report, including aprocurementplanand actionmatrix will beproduced and
 sent to the Bank every 6 months. Reporting needs will be reviewed at the beginning o f
 each fiscal year. Outcome indicators will include: (i)  the successful importation o f low-
 sulfur diesel fuel for energy production and transport, as well as other critical goods such
 as construction materials and equipment needed for the overall reconstruction effort; (ii)
the number o f students who have retumed to school, on a quarterly basis; and (iii)    the
number ofhospital beds that have beenrehabilitated to an operational level, on a
quarterly basis.

Safeguards

The project is classified as Category B. No adverse environmental or social issues have
been identified. However, it isjudged prudent to keep some environmental oversight in
view o f the potential impacts o fthe rehabilitation or reconstruction of community
infrastructure. Because o f the emergency nature of this project, it is proposed that,
pursuant to OP 8.50, the project be relieved from OP 4.01 requirements, with adequate
justifications included inthe loan document. Appropriate Environmental Assessments




                                             -20 -

will be conducted inthe first six months ofthe project for all components and
investments that require one.

meration Manual

The above project implementation arrangements including (i)    an Environmental
Management Framework; (ii)     a model to be used inthe preparationo f FMRs; and (iii)
                                                                                    the
Performance Indicators will bepresented inan operation manual to be prepared by the
borrower as a condition o f disbursement.




                                          -21 -

                          Grenada
      HurricaneIvanEmergencyRecovery project

                           Annex 1
             DETAILEDPROJECT COSTING


A.CriticalImports                                   2.00
  Low-sulfur diesel fuel, construction materials
  and equipment, and medical supplies and
  equipment                                             2.00

B.Assistanceto the Recovery of the EducationSector  5.00
  TA for the design andsupervision o fworks             0.44
  Schools rehabilitation                                4.00
  School supplies                                       0.56

C.Assistanceto the Recovery of the HealthSector     2.50
  TA for the design and supervisiono fworks             0.22
  Health facilities rehabilitation                      2.00
  Medical supplies                                      0.28

D.ProjectSupport and Supervision                    0.20
  P C U Staff                                           0.10
  Office equipment                                      0.02
  Financial audits                                      0.06
  Operating expenditures                                0.02

  TotalBaseCosts                                    9.70
  Contingencies                                         0.28
  TotalCost includingcontingencies                  9.98
  Front-end Fee                                         0.03
  GrandTotal                                        10.00




                             -22 -

-23 -


rri


     ENT      CT FILES

                          isaster


                           e




        -25-

    t


CE


