Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1161 
Project Name 
Grenada Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Primary education (50%);Health (25%);General education sector 
(10%);Other social services (10%);Solid waste management (5%) 
Project ID 
P092692 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA 
Implementing Agency 
PCU under the Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 12, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 21, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 16, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Recent Developments 
–
Hurricane Ivan
On September 7
th
,
2004, the eye-wall of Hurricane Ivan passed over Grenada, bringing sustained 
winds of 120 miles per hour and gusts upwards of 135 miles per hour.  The hurricane affected 
the entire island with particularly severe impact in the southern portion of the island below a line 
drawn roughly from Grenville to St. George’s.  Visible damages include the partial or total loss 
of building structures, broken and uprooted trees, broken utility poles and damaged vehicles.   
 
Damage to the island of Grenada is extensive and is expected to amount to several times the 
country’s GDP.  Overall, in excess of 80% of building structures on the island have sustained 
some form of damage, including 90% of the housing stock and nearly every school in the 
country.  Other sectors severely effected include: the power sector, with an estimated 80% of the 
distribution grid to be replaced; the tourism industry with close to 70% of its infrastructure made 
unusable; and the agriculture sector, which is entirely devastated.  As Ivan was a relatively dry 
hurricane, damage from flooding and mudslides was not extensive, resulting in some sectors 
escaping nearly unscathed including the road network and the water system. 
 
Public infrastructure, in particular school and health clinic buildings, suffered major losses.  Only 
2
of
the island’s 75 primary and secondary schools have survived with minimal damage.  While 
St. George’s Hospital has remained functional, Princess Alice Hospital (the island’s second 
largest) is more than 70% destroyed.  Other government buildings, including the government 
complex, have suffered significant water damage.   
 
Grenada’s Vulnerability to Natural Disasters
Page  2
Grenada’s geographical location, in the hurricane belt between the Atlantic Ocean and the 
Caribbean Sea, and its island status makes Grenada highly vulnerable to natural disasters, mostly 
to hurricanes and flooding, as well as occasional volcanic and tectonic activity.  The 
consequences of these natural disasters can have a severe impact on economic activities, 
property, human welfare, and natural resources.  A European Commission Humanitarian Office 
(ECHO) diagnostic study reports that between 1900 and 1996, Caribbean countries had sustained 
309 disaster events resulting in over 72,000 deaths and approximately 12 million people affected. 
 
Regionally, after Hurricanes Luis and Maryland in 1995 the Caribbean Disaster Emergency 
Response Agency (CDERA) took a comprehensive approach to deal with natural disasters.  Each 
country has named a National Disaster Coordinator with the unique function of bringing diverse 
groups together to promote disaster mitigation, stimulate preparedness, and coordinate relief 
operations.  Grenada, like other OECS countries, has partnered with many international 
organizations such as the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Pan American Health 
Organization (PAHO) to design and implement programs to reduce their vulnerability to natural 
disasters. 
 
Following Hurricane Georges in 1998, the Bank engaged the OECS countries in a broad disaster 
prevention and mitigation program aimed at reducing their losses from natural disasters under 
the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) entitled Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management 
Program (ERDMP).  Components of this project include; (i) strengthening institutional disaster 
management capacity; (ii) developing an early warning system; (iii) building and retrofitting 
shelters, (iv) strengthening emergency response capacity, (v) constructing preventative physical 
mitigation measures; and (vi) commissioning several vulnerability and protection studies.  The 
program includes $10 million in contingent financing available in case one of the islands is hit by 
a
disaster during project implementation. 
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement
Grenada is a participating country in the OECS-Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management 
program which provides it with up to US$10 million in case of natural disaster.  The Bank also 
has ongoing projects in the Health, Education and Environment sectors, which have all been 
severely affected. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project will support the recovery efforts of the government of Grenada through the financing 
of critical imports and rehabilitation activities in key social sectors.  Financing is provided on an 
emergency basis to avoid the usual time lag between the end of the relief period and 
reconstruction.  Due to the catastrophic losses in the education and health sectors, and their core 
importance to Grenadian society, the focus of this project will be to rehabilitate infrastructure in 
these areas.  Specific objectives include: 
 
(1) 
support the Government’s overall reconstruction program through the financing of 
critical import; 
Page  3
(2) 
restore school infrastructure to an operational level and ensure a prompt return of 
children to schools; 
(3)       support the rehabilitation of healthcare infrastructure to ensure adequate        
 
delivery of health services throughout the island. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This project will consist of four components including:  
 
(I) 
Financing of critical imports; 
(II) 
Assistance to the recovery of the education sector; 
(III) 
Assistance to the recovery of the health sector; 
(IV) 
Support to Project Management and Supervision. 
 
I. 
Financing of critical imports (US$ 2 million)
.
This component will finance the 
import of low-sulfur diesel fuel necessary for electricity generation and 
transportation needed to maintain economic activity and to the Government’s 
overall reconstruction effort.  The inclusion of this sole import is based on ana 
assessment of Grenada’s monthly import bill and review of satisfactory 
procurement practices. 
 
II. 
Rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools (US$ 5.0 million)
.
One of the most 
urgent reconstruction priorities of the government is the rebuilding of damaged or 
destroyed schools.  Only 2 of the 75 primary and secondary schools on the island 
are currently in an operational condition.  Reconstruction will be implemented in 
two phases; an initial rehabilitation phase to make facilities operationally 
functional where student will be able to attend school on a shift system; and full 
reconstruction phase to complete repairs and bring affected schools in line with 
appropriate standards.  This component will finance the technical assistance for 
the design and supervision of the reconstruction, the actual rehabilitation works, 
as well as the purchase of school supplies when these have been destroyed or 
damaged. 
 
III. 
Restoration of St. George’s Hospital and regional health facilities (US$ 2.5 
million)
.
The principal hospital on the island suffered roof damage resulting in  
the loss of its laboratory facility.  As this facility is essential to the island health 
care system it must be restored as soon as possible.  In the vicinity of Grenville, 
on the eastern side of the island, Princess Alice Hospital has been virtually 
destroyed.  Other health care facilities around the island have been damaged and 
are in need of repairs.  This component will finance the technical assistance 
necessary to develop a strategy for addressing rehabilitation works, the physical 
rehabilitation of health infrastructure and the purchase of medical supplies and 
equipment when these have been damaged by the Hurricane. 
 
Page  4
IV. 
Support to Project Management and Supervision (US$ 0.2 million)
.
While the 
project will be implemented by the same PCU currently implementing the 
ERDMP, ERP, HIV/AIDS and OECS Education projects, additional resources will 
be needed to face the current emergency and increased workload in processing and 
supervising contracts.  This component will finance limited office equipment and 
technical assistance to support implementation during the first year of the project. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The project will be classified as Category B.  No adverse environmental or social issues have 
been identified.  However, it is judged prudent to keep some environmental oversight in view of 
the potential impacts of the rehabilitation or reconstruction of community infrastructure.  
Because of the emergency nature of this project, it is proposed that, pursuant to OP 8.50, the 
project be relieved from OP 4.01 requirements, with adequate justifications included in the loan 
document.  Appropriate EA will be conducted in the first six months of the project for all 
activities that require one. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
5.0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5.0 
 Total 
10.0 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Francis Ghesquiere 
Title: Urban Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-1964 
Fax: (202) 522 3552 
Email:  Fghesquiere@worldbank.org 
 
7.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
