Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1162 
Project Name 
Grenada Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Primary education (50%);Health (25%);General education sector 
(10%);Other social services (10%);Solid waste management (5%) 
Project ID 
P092692 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA 
Implementing Agency 
PCU under the Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 12, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 21, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
November 16, 2004 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Recent Developments 
–
Hurricane Ivan
On September 7
th
,
2004, the eye-wall of Hurricane Ivan passed over Grenada, bringing sustained 
winds of 120 miles per hour and gusts upwards of 135 miles per hour.  The hurricane affected 
the entire island with particularly severe impact in the southern portion of the island below a line 
drawn roughly from Grenville to St. George’s.  Visible damages include the partial or total loss 
of building structures, broken and uprooted trees, broken utility poles and damaged vehicles.   
 
Damage to the island of Grenada is extensive and is expected to amount to several times the 
country’s GDP.  Overall, in excess of 80 percent of building structures on the island have 
sustained some form of damage, including 90 percent of the housing stock and nearly every 
school in the country.  Other sectors severely effected include: the power sector, with an 
estimated 80 percent of the distribution grid to be replaced; the tourism industry with close to 70 
percent of its infrastructure made unusable; and the agriculture sector, which is entirely 
devastated.  As Ivan was a relatively dry hurricane, damage from flooding and mudslides was 
not extensive, resulting in some sectors escaping nearly unscathed including the road network 
and the water system. 
 
Public infrastructure, in particular school and health clinic buildings, suffered major losses.  Only 
2
of
the island’s 75 primary and secondary schools have survived with minimal damage.  While 
St. George’s Hospital has remained functional, Princess Alice Hospital (the island’s second 
largest) is more than 70 percent destroyed.  Other government buildings, including the 
government complex, have suffered significant water damage.   
 
Page  2
Grenada’s vulnerability to natural disasters
Grenada’s geographical location, in the hurricane belt between the Atlantic Ocean and the 
Caribbean Sea, and its island status makes Grenada highly vulnerable to natural disasters, mostly 
to hurricanes and flooding, as well as occasional volcanic and tectonic activity.  The 
consequences of these natural disasters can have a severe impact on economic activities, 
property, human welfare, and natural resources.  A European Commission Humanitarian Office 
(ECHO) diagnostic study reports that between 1900 and 1996, Caribbean countries had sustained 
309 disaster events resulting in over 72,000 deaths and approximately 12 million people affected. 
 
Regionally, after Hurricanes Luis and Maryland in 1995 the Caribbean Disaster Emergency 
Response Agency (CDERA) took a comprehensive approach to deal with natural disasters.  Each 
country has named a National Disaster Coordinator with the unique function of bringing diverse 
groups together to promote disaster mitigation, stimulate preparedness, and coordinate relief 
operations.  Grenada, like other OECS countries, has partnered with many international 
organizations such as the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Pan American Health 
Organization (PAHO) to design and implement programs to reduce their vulnerability to natural 
disasters. 
 
Following Hurricane Georges in 1998, the Bank engaged the OECS countries in a broad disaster 
prevention and mitigation program aimed at reducing their losses from natural disasters under 
the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) entitled Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management 
Program (ERDMP).  Components of this project include; (i) strengthening institutional disaster 
management capacity; (ii) developing an early warning system; (iii) building and retrofitting 
shelters, (iv) strengthening emergency response capacity, (v) constructing preventative physical 
mitigation measures; and (vi) commissioning several vulnerability and protection studies.  The 
program includes $10 million in contingent financing available in case one of the islands is hit by 
a
disaster during project implementation. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project will support the recovery efforts of the government of Grenada through the financing 
of critical imports and rehabilitation activities in key social sectors.  Financing is provided on an 
emergency basis to avoid the usual time lag between the end of the relief period and 
reconstruction.  Due to the catastrophic losses in the education and health sectors, and their core 
importance to Grenadian society, the focus of this project will be to rehabilitate infrastructure in 
these areas.  Specific objectives include: 
 
(1) 
supporting the Government’s overall reconstruction program through the financing of 
critical imports; 
(2) 
restoring school infrastructure to an operational level and ensure a prompt return of 
children to schools; 
(3)      supporting the rehabilitation of healthcare infrastructure to ensure adequate        
Page  3
delivery of health services throughout the island. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Grenada is a participating country in the OECS-Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management 
program which provides it with up to US$10 million in case of natural disaster.  The Bank also 
has ongoing project in the Health, Education and Environment sectors, which have all been 
severely affected. 
 
4. Description 
 
This project will consist of four components including:  
 
(I) 
Financing of critical imports; 
(II) 
Assistance to the recovery of the education sector; 
(III) 
Assistance to the recovery of the health sector; 
(IV) 
Support to Project Management and Supervision. 
 
I. 
Financing of critical imports (US$2.0 million)
.
This component will finance the 
import of low sulfur diesel fuel necessary for electricity generation and 
transportation needed to maintain economic activity and to the Government’s 
overall reconstruction effort.  The inclusion of this sole import is based on ana 
assessment of Grenada’s monthly import bill and review of satisfactory 
procurement practices. 
 
II. 
Rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools (US$5.0 million)
.
One of the most 
urgent reconstruction priorities of the government is the rebuilding of damaged or 
destroyed schools.  Only 2 of the 75 primary and secondary schools on the island 
are currently in an operational condition.  Reconstruction will be implemented in 
two phases; an initial rehabilitation phase to make facilities operationally 
functional where student will be able to attend school on a shift system; and full 
reconstruction phase to complete repairs and bring affected schools in line with 
appropriate standards.  This component will finance the technical assistance for 
the design and supervision of the reconstruction, the actual rehabilitation works, 
as well as the purchase of school supplies when these have been destroyed or 
damaged. 
 
III. 
Restoration of St. George’s Hospital and regional health facilities (US$2.5 
million)
.
The principal hospital on the island suffered roof damage resulting in  
the loss of its laboratory facility.  As this facility is essential to the island health 
care system it must be restored as soon as possible.  In the vicinity of Grenville, 
on the eastern side of the island, Princess Alice Hospital has been virtually 
destroyed.  Other health care facilities around the island have been damaged and 
are in need of repairs.  This component will finance the technical assistance 
necessary to develop a strategy for addressing rehabilitation works, the physical 
Page  4
rehabilitation of health infrastructure and the purchase of medical supplies and 
equipment when these have been damaged by the Hurricane. 
 
IV. 
Support to Project Management and Supervision (US$0.5 million)
.
While the 
project will be implemented by the same PCU currently implementing the 
ERDMP, ERP, HIV/AIDS and OECS Education projects, additional resources 
will be needed to face the current emergency and increased workload in 
processing and supervising contracts.  This component will finance limited office 
equipment and technical assistance to support implementation during the first year 
of the project. 
 
5. Financing 
 
The proposed recovery project will be financed through funds available under phase 4 of the 
ERDMP APL.  Under the APL, US$10 million in contingent credit was earmarked for use by a 
participating country for emergency recovery activities in the event of a natural disaster.  To 
access these funds, participating countries must meet three eligibility criteria: (1) the project 
implementation must be rated as satisfactory at the time of the disaster, and; (2) the country must 
declare a State of Emergency, (3) the recognition by the international community of the 
emergency nature of the disaster.  Since ERDMP project implementation was rated satisfactory, 
the Prime Minister declared a State of Emergency, and the international community has 
responded with vigor through an organized relief effort and the successful donors’ meeting, 
Grenada has satisfied all conditions necessary to access the contingency financing. 
 
The financing consists of 50 percent IBRD funding, and 50 percent IDA credit. Given Grenada’s 
current fiscal constraints, it is proposed that the Bank finance 100 percent of the project’s 
expenditures. 
 
The proposed project is part of a US$20 million dollar recovery package prepared by the Bank to 
support the reconstruction efforts of the Government of Grenada.  In addition to the US$10 
million released under the Phase 4 of the ERDMP-APL, four Bank projects under 
implementation in Grenada will provide funding for the recovery efforts through existing 
component or through amendments. 
 
This includes, (i) the reallocation of US$450,000 from the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) 
to finance critical imports; (ii) the use of US$2.0 million under Phase 2 of ERMDP to procure 
additional emergency equipment and further vulnerability reduction activities; (iii) the 
restructuring of the 
HIV/AIDS Prevent and Control Project
 to allow for 1.3 million to be 
dedicated to the rehabilitation of health care infrastructure; and (iv) and the shifting of 
approximately US$5 million under the 
OECS Education Development Program
 to the 
reconstruction of schools. 
 
A
donors meeting, which took place on October 4, 2004 during the IMF/World Bank annual 
meetings, is expected to generate additional funds for Grenada.  These funds are expected 
Page  5
support the Government’s reconstruction program by contributing to these and other 
rehabilitation efforts. 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
5.0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5.0 
 Total 
10.0 
 
6. Implementation 
 
This project will use the same implementation arrangements that are in place for the current 
ERDMP, ERP and HIV/AIDS projects with one small modification.  The Project Coordinating 
Unit (PCU) under the purview of the Ministry of Finance’s will be strengthened and will work in 
close collaboration with the relevant line ministries.  The PCU (under the Ministry of Finance) 
will be responsible for the overall coordination of the project.  While line agencies will remain 
responsible for project implementation, the PCU will act as a service center, assisting them with 
all fiduciary aspects (e.g. procurement, contracting, financial reporting and audits) required 
during the execution of the project.  The Bank underscored the need to swiftly appoint new staff 
to the PCU, which will be a disbursement condition on the loan. 
 
An action plan for the strengthening of the PCU was developed during project preparation, and 
the Government is taking measures to address some of the deficiencies that had recently emerged 
in the PCU by appointing an experienced Project Coordinator.  An additional staff member is to 
be appointed and arrangements are being made with the Government of Dominica to provide an 
experienced Procurement Officer to assist in project implementation. 
 
Implementation will also focus on outside donor coordination.  The Bank organized an initial 
donor meeting in Washington, DC on October 4 and participated in an additional donor 
conference which focused solely on the rehabilitation of the education sector.  The Bank has 
agreed to take the lead in the coordination of donor funding in order to ensure that pledges do not 
overlap ongoing projects and to more efficiently target sectors in need.  To this end, a consultant 
has been hired to assist the Borrower with the organization of the upcoming donor meeting in 
Grenada to help facilitate successful coordination.
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The initial assessment of damages in Grenada shows that building structures (housing, schools, 
government buildings, etc.) were particularly affected.  At the same time, structures built or 
retrofitted in recent years under World Bank projects survived the storm with little or no damage.  
This demonstrates the benefits of applying hurricane resistant standards to vulnerable 
Page  6
construction.  A significant concern is that during the reconstruction effort, the same 
vulnerabilities will be rebuilt.  It has been proven through the success of Bank retrofitting 
projects in Grenada that hurricane damage can be minimized by taking careful measures to 
ensure that new construction is hurricane resistant.  Therefore, serious emphasis will be placed 
within the recovery program to  implement hurricane resistant standards in the rehabilitation and 
reconstruction program to make certain that vulnerabilities are not reintroduced.  In addition to 
the incorporation of these standards in Bank sponsored construction, it is likely the concept will 
be extended, by example, to non-Bank financed recovery efforts. 
 
8. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The project is classified as Category B.  No adverse environmental or social issues have been 
identified.  However, it is judged prudent to keep some environmental oversight in view of the 
potential impacts of the rehabilitation or reconstruction of community infrastructure.  Because of 
the emergency nature of this project, it is proposed that, pursuant to OP 8.50, the project be 
relieved from OP 4.01 requirements, with adequate justifications included in the loan document.  
Appropriate Environmental Assessments (EA)s will be conducted in the first six months of the 
project for all components and investments that require one.  
Page  7
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
“Preliminary Damage Assessment Report” by the World Bank, September 16, 2004 
 
“Grenada: Macro-Socio-Economic Assessment of the damages caused by Hurricane Ivan,”  
developed by the OECS Secretariat and ECLAC, September 30, 2004 
 
9. 
  Contact point 
Contact: Francis Ghesquiere 
Title: Urban Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-1964 
Fax: (202) 522 3552 
Email: fghesquiere@worldbank.org 
 
10.   For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
