                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001287



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-7262 IDA-4001)



                                      ON A

                              LOAN AND CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                 TO GRENADA

       FOR THE HURRICANE IVAN EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

 IN SUPPORT OF THE FOURTH PHASE OF THE ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN
      CARIBBEAN STATES EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER
                     MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

                               December 14, 2009




Urban, Water and Disaster Risk Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
        (Exchange Rate Effective November 3, 2009)

        Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                   US$ 1.00 = [2.68 EC]

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 to December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDEMA   Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency
CDERA   Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency
CDRU    Caribbean Disaster Relief Unit
CMS     Central Medical Stores
CMU     Country Management Unit
DRM     Disaster Risk Management
ECLAC   UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ERDMP   Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
ERL     Emergency Recovery Loan
ERP     Emergency Recovery Project
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
HIERP   Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IDF     Institutional Development Fund
ISR     Implementation Status Report
LCSUW   Latin America and Caribbean Urban and Water cluster
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOH     Ministry of Health
NERO    National Emergency Response Organization
NADMA   National Agency for Disaster Management Assistance
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAHO    Pan American Health Organization
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TA      Technical Assistance
USAID   U.S. Agency for International Development

                Vice President: Pamela Cox
             Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
              Sector Manager: Guang Z. Chen
         Project Team Leader: Niels Holm-Nielsen
            ICR Team Leader: Nara C. Meli
                                           GRENADA
                            Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 27
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
  Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 34
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Grenada Hurricane Ivan
Country:                Grenada                 Project Name:
                                                                          Emergency Project
                                                                          IBRD-72620,IDA-
Project ID:             P092692                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          40010,TF-55936
ICR Date:               12/15/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          GRENADA
Original Total
                        USD 10.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 10.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Coordination Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process                 Date         Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/15/2004    Effectiveness:             02/15/2005        02/15/2005
Appraisal:             09/27/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/17/2004    Mid-term Review:           07/15/2007        07/15/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2008        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Moderately Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                25                   25
Other social services                                                 25                   25
Primary education                                                     25                   25
Secondary education                                                   25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100               100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Alan G. Carroll                      Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:            Guang Zhe Chen                       John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:       Niels B. Holm-Nielsen                Francis Ghesquiere
ICR Team Leader:           Nara C. Meli
ICR Primary Author:        Nara C. Meli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims at supporting the recovery efforts of the Government of Grenada
through the financing of critical imports and rehabilitation activities in key social sectors.
Financing is provided on an emergency basis to avoid the usual time lag between the end
of the relief period and reconstruction.




                                               ii
  Due to the catastrophic losses in the education and health sectors, and their core
importance to Grenadian society, the focus of this project will be to rehabilitate
infrastructure in these areas.

  Specific objectives include:

  (1) Supporting the Government's overall reconstruction program through the financing
of critical imports;
  (2) Restoring school infrastructure to an operational level and ensure a prompt return
of children to schools;
  (3) Supporting the rehabilitation of the healthcare infrastructure to ensure adequate
access to quality health services throughout the island.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target   Formally   Actual Value
                                            Values (from      Revised    Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval       Target    Completion or
                                             documents)       Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Disbursement of Quick Disbursing Component
Value
quantitative or   0%                        100% disbursed
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/19/2004                06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     School Rehabilitation Program Completed
Value                                       100% restoration
quantitative or   0                         of secondary
Qualitative)                                school facilities
Date achieved     11/19/2004                06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Health Sector Rehabilitation Program Completed
                                          15% of critical
Value
                0% of critical health     health
quantitative or
                infrastructure restored   infrastructure
Qualitative)
                                          restored
Date achieved 11/19/2004                  06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Total Spent on critical imports
Value
                                           US$2,000,000
(quantitative     US$0 disbursed
                                           disbursed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/19/2004               06/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of Schools Rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                        19
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/19/2004               06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of Health Centers Rehabilitated
Value
                                           5 critical facilities
(quantitative     0
                                           restored
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/19/2004               06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                              IP            Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/22/2004          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/29/2005          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.03
  3     11/11/2005          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.03
  4     01/03/2006          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.95
  5     04/27/2006          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.88
  6     12/12/2006          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     5.93
  7     06/15/2007          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     5.93
  8     08/31/2007      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              7.03
  9     03/18/2008          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.83
 10     10/16/2008          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.83


                                                  iv
 11    04/06/2009         Satisfactory       Satisfactory   9.83


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Background
1.      Grenada is a 133-square-mile island (including the islands of Carriacou and Petit
Martinique) with a population of about 100,000 situated at the southern end of the
Windward Islands chain. Located in the southern margin of the hurricane belt, between
the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, Grenada is vulnerable to a variety of natural
hazards, particularly hurricanes, flooding, and occasionally, volcanic and seismic activity.

2.      On September 7, 2004, the eye-wall of Hurricane Ivan, a category 3 storm (as
rated on the Safford-Simpson scale), passed over Grenada, bringing sustained winds of
120 mph, with gusts in excess of 135 mph. The hurricane affected the entire island,
particularly the southern portion ­ including the capital, St. Georges ­ and more than 80
percent of building structures were affected. Wind damage was the most severe,
amounting to an estimated US$ 900 million in losses1, more than twice the country's
GDP.




3.     Public infrastructure, in particular school buildings and health facilities suffered
major losses. Seventy three out of the island's 75 primary and secondary schools

1
    Post-Disaster Damage Assessment, UN-ECLAC/OECS, 2004.



                                               1
sustained significant damage. The largest hospital (St. Georges', 240 beds) was affected
but remained functional, while Princess Alice Hospital (the island's second largest, 60
beds) was more than 70 percent destroyed. Other affected sectors included power, with
an estimated 80 percent loss of the distribution grid; tourism, with close to 70 percent of
its infrastructure rendered uninhabitable; and agriculture, where nutmeg crop, the island's
principal agricultural export, was destroyed. Other crops such as banana and plantain
were also damaged by the storm.

4.      The national capacity was overwhelmed: Government ceased to function, with
most Government buildings damaged or destroyed, and civil servants suffering serious
personal losses as well. The communications system (phone and internet) was down for
three weeks; radio and television systems were off the air and the population relied on
stations broadcasting from other islands for information.

5.       The Caribbean Disaster Relief Unit (CDRU) was mobilized and provided post
disaster management services (security, relief management, other basic services) for over
three months. The National Emergency Relief Organization (NERO) had not yet moved
into the recently completed Emergency Operation Center, and the communications
equipment purchased under the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
(ERDMP), the ongoing disaster risk management program supported by the Bank in the
country, was not yet ready. The extensive damage and the lack of immediate liquidity
available for recovery needs led the Government of Grenada to request the assistance of
the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA). CDERA provided
logistical support for emergency assistance (for receipt and dispatching of relief supplies)
through the CDRU. The Caribbean Development Bank post-disaster relief facility was
also triggered, providing US$1.5 million for immediate clean-up operations.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

Country Level
6.      At the request of Grenada's Ministry of Finance, the World Bank was involved in
the early stages of the recovery. A Bank team was on the first commercial flight to the
country, less than a week after the hurricane. The team prepared a rapid needs
assessment (including aerial surveys and interviews) covering the affected sectors in the
country to help establish priority reconstruction activities. This assessment was soon
followed by a comprehensive Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)-United
Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UN-ECLAC) joint
damage and loss assessment.

7.     The Bank's leading role in the needs assessment and its immediate presence in the
aftermath of the Hurricane made the Government rely on the Bank for assistance with the
preparation of an overall reconstruction plan. Between September and November 2004,
the Bank team provided significant support to the Government's efforts by requesting
funding from the donor community and organizing recovery efforts.




                                             2
8.      In October 2004, during the IMF/World Bank's Annual Meetings, the
Government, with the assistance of the Bank team, organized a donors meeting to present
the findings of the OECS-ECLAC damage and loss assessment. The objective was to
raise awareness in the donor community on the severity of the emergency, and appeal for
additional funding for the reconstruction phase.

9.       One year after the Hurricane, the Bank assessed the reconstruction and economic
recovery in Grenada, detailing the impacts of the Hurricane in the sectors, the recovery
efforts, the macroeconomic situation, and the role of donors in the reconstruction. The
assessment reported substantial reconstruction to date (October 2005) due to the large-
scale efforts from the international and local communities.

Project Level
10.     The Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project (HIERP) was principally
designed to respond to the recovery and reconstruction needs in the Health and Education
sectors, as identified in the post-disaster assessment, and requested by the Government.
The project was designed, prepared and approved by the Bank's Board in a record eight
weeks' time.

11.     The HIERP received initial funding in the amount of US$ 10 million, and was
implemented in parallel with phase two of the Emergency Recovery and Disaster
Management Project (ERDMP), a four-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The
objective of APL 2 was "to strengthen Grenada's resilience, preparedness and response to
natural disasters"2 and aimed to "support disaster mitigation and institutional
strengthening activities in Grenada."3

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

12.      The objective of the project was to support the recovery/reconstruction efforts of
the Government of Grenada through (a) the financing of fuel necessary for power
generation, (b) the rehabilitation of public schools to allow children to return to class as
soon as possible (and limit the long-term impact on education), and (c) the rehabilitation
of critical public health facilities in order to provide access to essential health care
facilities throughout the island.

13.      Key Outcome Indicators as specified in the Technical Annex4 are: (i) Successful
import of low-sulfur diesel fuel for energy production and transportation, as well as other
critical goods such as construction materials and equipment needed for the overall
reconstruction effort5; (ii) Number of students who have returned to school, on a
quarterly basis; and (iii) Number of hospital beds that have been rehabilitated to an
operational level, on a quarterly basis.

2
  ERDMP ICR, p.3.
3
  ERDMP ICR, p.2.
4
  The indicators listed as `outcome indicators' in the Technical Annex are actually output indicators.
5
  Only low-sulfur diesel was financed, because it was most urgently needed.


                                                      3
14.     Intermediate Outcome Indicators (same as original ISR indicators) as defined
in the Technical Annex were: (i) Total spent on critical imports; (ii) Number of schools
rehabilitated; and (iii) Number of health centers rehabilitated.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

15.     The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.     The main beneficiary of the project was the population affected by Hurricane Ivan
in the education and health sectors: mostly primary and secondary students (1,566
primary school students, and 3,916 secondary school students, over the five-year lifetime
of the project) followed by faculty (94 teachers at the primary school level, and 245 at
secondary school level), 666 health practitioners as well as the population of patients.

1.5 Original Components (As Approved)

17.      The four main components were:
(i)      Financing of critical imports, such as of low sulfur diesel necessary for electricity
        (US$ 2.0 million);
(ii)    Assistance to the recovery of the education sector, through the rehabilitation and
        reconstruction of schools (US$ 5.0 million);
(iii)   Assistance to the recovery of the health sector, through the restoration of the
        island's general hospital (St. Georges'), and regional health facilities (US$ 2.5
        million);
(iv)    Support to project management and supervision (US$ 0.2 million).

1.6 Revised Components

18.     Project components were not restructured.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.     The project's closing date was extended by one year at the request of the
Government to ensure the completion of works. This was due to the addition of the EU
grant (a total of about US$ 13.4 million), which increased the number of schools to be
rehabilitated under the project, and therefore the amount of works to be carried out (See
Section 2.1).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




                                               4
20.     Reallocation Exercise: As the needs of the education and health sectors were
determined, the Bank moved quickly to start a fast and efficient provision of funds, by
reviewing its existing portfolio in Grenada with the aim to reallocate funds from on-going
projects to emergency recovery.

21.      Three ongoing Bank projects were tapped:
· Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project (ERDMP) (P069922), US$
    10.7 million Bank-financed. US$ 450,000 was reallocated to finance sulfur diesel.
· OECS/ Grenada Education Development Project (P077759), US$ 25.05 million total,
    US$ 23.7 million Bank-financed. US$ 5 million was reallocated for school
    reconstruction.
· HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project (P076715), US$ 14.04 million total, US$
    12.96 million Bank-financed. The Project was restructured to allow for US$ 1.3
    million to be dedicated to the rehabilitation of healthcare infrastructure.
The initial reallocation exercise explains why the HIERP did not begin disbursing until
the fall of 2005, nine months after its approval.
                                                                     6
Table 1: Bank Funds Allocated to the Recovery Program

 HIERP Project          Reallocation of Funds from on-              Hurricane Ivan
  Components                 going Bank projects*                  Emergency Project
Critical Imports       US$ 450,000 from Emergency                 US$ 2.0 million
                       Recovery Disaster Management
                       project (ERDMP)
Education              US$ 5.0 million from OECS                  US$ 5.3 million
Rehabilitation         Education project
Health                 US$ 1.3 million from HIV/AIDS              US$ 2.5 million
Rehabilitation         project
*In addition, approximately US$ 2.95 under the on-going ERDMP was already allocated for the
rehabilitation of schools and shelters, and to further strengthen the disaster management capacity of the
country.

22.     HIERP Design: Project design and preparation were based on the Bank and
ECLAC's damage and loss assessments conducted after Hurricane Ivan. While funds
were being reallocated and disbursed quickly, the Bank team began preparing the
Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project to secure additional funding to continue
recovery and reconstruction activities. HIERP was designed and initially implemented as
an emergency operation, focusing on recovery needs in the priority sectors, using the
Bank's streamlined OP/BP 8.5 procedures, and measuring progress with output-focused
indicators.7 The project was approved in mid-November 2004, and became effective on
February 15, 2005.



6
 From HIERP's Technical Annex, p. 14.
7
 OP/BP 8.5 did not allow the establishment of an Emergency Recovery Loan additional financing. This
procedure is now possible under OP/BP 8.0.


                                                      5
23.     Although HIERP was an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL), its design included
aspects of long term development; the project did not simply finance the reconstruction
of damaged infrastructure, it invested in permanent reconstruction, integrating hurricane
resistant standards in the designs. The Bank was already involved in building hurricane
resistant infrastructure in the Caribbean, and in Grenada specifically (the two schools that
resisted Hurricane Ivan were financed under the OECS/Grenada Education Development
Project), so the Bank team was highly experienced in integrating mitigation measures in
rehabilitation projects. The project thus had a long-term view, and directly contributed to
the reduction of the vulnerability of Grenada's public infrastructure to future disasters, an
objective that was also supported by the ERDMP.

24.     In September 2005, seven months after effectiveness, the Government of Grenada
received a grant of Euros 8.14 million from the European Union (TF055936), which had
manifested interest in providing financing to assist with school reconstruction and
rehabilitation. It was agreed to tie the EU money to the HIERP, since the development
objective of the grant ("assist Grenada (the Recipient) in carrying out critical
rehabilitation and reconstruction activities in the education sector as part of the
Recipient's post-Hurricane Ivan recovery efforts"8) was similar to that of the education
component of the Bank project. This influx of funds enabled the Bank to increase the
number of schools targeted under the project, through co-financing. Another tranche of
1.68 million Euros was later added, for a total grant of Euros 9.8 million, (about US$
13.4 million).

2.2 Implementation

25.       Four main factors affected project implementation:

(i)       Delays in school identification and selection by the Ministry of Education (MOE).
          The MOE was responsible for the selection of the schools to be included in the
          project. As this was a process of consultation and prioritization with various
          political stakeholders, the list went through several iterations before reaching its
          final version, in December 2005.

(ii)      The completion of the final designs for rehabilitation from the MOE's consultant
          took 6 months longer than expected, as the consultant continued to produce new
          school designs in response to requests and changes in Ministry priorities while
          also producing reconstruction designs under the originally contracted production
          schedule. The delays in decision-making negatively affected the work of the
          consultant.

(iii)     Lengthy standard processing times with Tender Board. Grenada has a Tender
          Board, which reviews all contracts with the Government. Once the Tender Board
          finalizes its review, recommendations are passed to the Cabinet for final review.
          This process, at times, took months for final contract approval, which caused
          delays, particularly at the beginning of the project.
8
    Administrative Agreement between the EU and the World Bank, November 17, 2005.


                                                   6
(iv)     Low availability of materials. The early construction phase of the project
         coincided with a serious scarcity of building materials and components. The
         OECS was hosting the ICC Cricket World Cup in the spring of 2007, so
         construction activity for new stadiums and tourism infrastructure increased
         between 2005 and 2006. This led to regional shortages of building materials
         (particularly cement), in the region, as countries prepared for the event.

These delays contributed to the project's closing date being pushed back to June 30,
                                      9
2009, a year after the original date.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design:
26.     Emergency projects mostly focus on reconstruction and rehabilitation, thus their
main results tend to be outputs. Project objectives were realistic and relevant at the time
of design, but only one out of the three indicators (critical imports10) was monitored
consistently during implementation. Given the important project focus on the education
sector, the inclusion of additional indicators to measure the changes the project brought in
this area would have provided a more comprehensive perspective.

27.      Project indicators were slightly modified by the 9th ISR (in March 2008), to
percentage-based measurements: 1) total percentage disbursed on critical imports, 2)
critical health infrastructure restored (0 percent baseline, and 15 percent as the target),
and 3) restoration of secondary school facilities (0 percent baseline, 100 percent as the
target).

28.     The Technical Annex does not specify baseline or target values for the indicators.
These values are present in the data sheet, however, PDO indicators and intermediate
indicators are essentially the same (the first set measures success in terms of percentage,
the second set in terms of numbers and amount disbursed).

29.     PDO indicators as stated in the Technical Annex (see footnote 10 below) are
different from the indicators specified in the Data Sheet (see paragraph 27). From the
outset, the choice of indicators for the education and health components was
inappropriate, which became apparent during implementation. For the education sector,
the government used temporary facilities while the Bank financed permanent
reconstruction, so the children were back in school en masse, which would have meant
100% achievement for the objective before any resources were spent on the component.
For the health sector, the number of beds was quickly restored, which would have also

9
 The EU grant will disburse until December 31, 2009.
10
  From HIERP Technical Annex: (i) the successful importation of low-sulfur diesel fuel for energy
production and transport, as well as other critical goods such as construction materials and equipment
needed for the overall reconstruction effort; (ii) the number of students who have returned to school, on a
quarterly basis; and (iii) the number of hospital beds that have been rehabilitated to an operational level, on
a quarterly basis.


                                                       7
meant 100% achievement immediately, while the rehabilitation effort concerned the
health facility, which took longer to rebuild.
This shows the wrong focus of the indicators, which do not measure progress in project
implementation. The team thus monitored progress on the works, and changes in the
indicators were not formally made until March 2008.

Implementation and Utilization:
30.      The Midterm Review (July 2007) does not discuss the second and third indicators
(see footnote 10), but only progress on the schools and health facilities reconstruction. In
other words, the units of measurement of the indicators (schools, hospitals) were changed
from the original design (children, beds). Only the first indicator, the financing of diesel
fuel, is reported as per the Technical Annex.

31.    Monitoring was done through active supervision, as well as progress reports that
were produced by the PCU and sent to the Bank quarterly, including (i) a brief
description of the project's objective and components; (ii) an explanation of progress on
performance (project) indicators; (iii) an explanation of commitments versus
disbursements; and (iv) an action matrix. The PCU and project team based their
decisions and actions on these progress reports.

Retroactive Outcome Indicators
32.     The project indicators that were designed during project preparation did not
capture the results achieved comprehensively. To help show the project's achievements,
the ICR team included two outcome indicators, in an effort to measure the qualitative
changes brought on by the project. The indicators take into account the information
available from the PCU and NADMA and measure change that is directly attributable to
the project.
(i)     Increase in the number of public schools in Grenada with hurricane resistant
        standards vs. total number of schools in the country, before the project began
        (2004) and now (2009). This indicator shows the direct contribution of the
        project to the number of hurricane resistant public schools on the island.
(ii)    Number of hurricane resistant health facilities in 2004 vs. 2009. This indicator
        measures the infrastructure quality of the health facilities in terms of their
        resistance to hurricanes ­ before and after the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management:
33.     The Financial Management was well handled by the PCU, which sent quarterly
reports to the Bank. When the EU grant was processed, the PCU used the same report
format on both accounts. The FM specialists in the PCU demonstrated high capacity, and
there were no issues during implementation.

Procurement:
34.    The project was processed under OP/BP 8.5, on Emergency Recovery Assistance.
The team was proactive in streamlining the Bank's internal procurement procedures,



                                             8
leading to most contracts being initially awarded through Shopping and Direct
Contracting, instead of the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). Shopping is generally reserved for procuring "readily
available off-the-shelf goods, or standard specification commodities or small value."11 It
is also considered a rapid procurement method - faster than ICB or NCB ­ and can be
used under OP/BP 8.5 and now OP/BP 8.012 as an emergency procedure to deliver urgent
goods and services. The Shopping threshold was set at US$ 3 million for value of works,
and US$ 500,000 for goods, which are extraordinarily high thresholds, allowing for
maximum flexibility. NCB was set at US$ 4 million for works, and US$ 1 million for
goods. Preference to domestic contractors was given, to stimulate the local economy and
maximize the impact of Bank-provided financing in the country.

35.     In October 2006, the Bank and the Grenadian Government mutually agreed to
change procurement procedures to standard operations13, even though this was not
amended in the Legal Agreement. National Competitive Bidding became the preferred
method of procurement over Shopping. According to the Aide-Memoire of the mission
when this was decided, this was done due to inadequate numbers of responsive bids
obtained through the Shopping procedures. Shopping was not an appropriate procedure
for complex school-related procurement. Bank procurement rules do not allow it to
accept recommendations to award contracts using Shopping procedures without three
responsive bids. Following this agreement, seven schools were tendered under NCB, of
which three were being re-tendered (they had previously been tendered under Shopping).
 Additionally, some changes were made to Clause 5.3 of the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Small Works (2005 version), to reflect the realities experienced by local
contractors in Grenada and allow capable local firms to meet bidding requirements. It
was also decided that for all future documents, Clause 5.3 (a) would not include any
cumulative financial requirements.14

36.     Finally, several procurement items were moved from post-review to prior review.
The responsiveness and adaptability of the Bank team and the Government with regards
to fiduciary matters during implementation are testimonies of the high degree of
cooperation and understanding of the changing situation.



11
   World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 2004, III. Other
Methods of Procurement, Sec. 3.5, Shopping.
12
   The Bank's emergency policy under which the Project was processed was slightly changed and was
reformulated as OP/BP 8.0 in March 2007.
13
   See Aide-Memoire for October 4-6, 2006, mission.
14
   Clause 5.3 (a) states: If the Employer has not undertaken prequalification of potential bidders, all bidders
shall include the following information and documents with their bids in Section III, unless otherwise
stated in the Bid Data Sheet: (i) copies of original documents defining the constitution or legal status, place of
registration, and principal place of business of the Bidder; and (ii) written power of attorney of the signatory of
the Bid to commit the Bidder.




                                                         9
Safeguards:
37.      The needs assessment evaluated the works to be completed, and concluded that
the type of works considered fell under the environmental classification Category C
(likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts). The project was given a
Category B rating (potential adverse environmental impacts on human populations or
environmentally important areas) however, to accommodate the possibility that additional
environmental work might be required, should the scope of the works change
significantly during the life of the project.

38.      Environmental impacts were associated with the reconstruction phase, and
safeguard compliance focused on contractor activities at the work site. The rehabilitation
of the hospitals did not include new construction, and biomedical waste was not an issue
in the project. A screening procedure and standardized environmental contract clauses
were included in the project Operations Manual for application during the construction
works. These included site security, hygiene, waste management, noise control, and
chance discovery of cultural and historical artifacts.

39.      More specifically:
    · No population relocation issues arose.
    · There was no use of hazardous materials apart from fuel and paint products.
    · No pesticide application was required.
    · No pollution impacts were identified apart from those appropriately addressed by
         debris management.
    · Activities were limited to reconstruction on existing sites.
During implementation, the Bank team conducted regular visits to various construction
sites, and contractor performance was satisfactory.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     The HIERP performed well both in the early emergency recovery stages, and
when its scope was modified with the EU grant. The positive longer term development
impact of the operation prompted the Government to request the Bank's support for a
follow-up project and discussions are ongoing. The next operation's objective (also long
term) would aim to strengthen the hurricane resilience of the remaining schools on the
island, and to relocate three vulnerable schools currently in high risk areas. There is a
strong desire on the part of the Government to continue investing in disaster mitigation
and vulnerability reduction.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

41.    The project remained relevant and adapted to country priorities throughout its
implementation. While HIERP was an emergency recovery project, it included mitigation
aspects that emphasized a longer-term perspective. Furthermore, the project was also in


                                            10
line with Grenada's efforts to realign its education services to accommodate the changing
demographics of the island. Thus the school designs, while hurricane resistant, were also
produced to allow for future expansions of the target schools (as identified under the
OECS education project), indicating that once the country recovered from the disaster, it
would move forward with its school realignment and modernization objectives.

42.     The scope of the project is also in line with the need ­ identified in the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (2001) ­ to "complement the rebuilding of damaged
infrastructure with comprehensive disaster mitigation measures, such as regular
maintenance, appropriate zoning, hazard mapping, establishment/enforcement of
construction codes and disaster information mechanisms."15 The ERDMP program in the
OECS incorporated disaster-resistant standards for public sector infrastructure
constructed with Bank financing. The success of these actions is evident in this case by
the fact that the two Grenadian schools that survived Hurricane Ivan were built with these
standards. These efforts were furthered under this project with the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the schools and health facilities with the same hurricane resistant
standards.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.     Despite delays in the procurement/tendering process, the project development
objective has been largely achieved (see output tables in Annex 2 and outcome ratings in
Section 3.4 for a breakdown).

A. Financing of Critical Imports (Estimated: US$ 2 million, Actual: US$ 2 million). The
   project successfully financed the purchasing of low sulfur fuel necessary for
   electricity production. The US$ 2 million was fully disbursed upon project
   effectiveness.

B. Assistance to the Recovery of the Education Sector (Estimated: US$ 5 million,
   Actual: US$ 4.8 million). The project financed the restoration and rehabilitation of 18
   schools. During project design, the exact number of schools to be targeted was not yet
   available, as engineering studies and the evaluation of the damages were still being
   carried out. A year into effectiveness, an EU grant was added to the project, and the
   funds were channeled towards co-financing school rehabilitation and reconstruction.
   The number of schools was increased from the original projections (which only
   received Bank funding), to 18 total. At the time of writing, 17 out of the 18 schools
   had been completed; the one remaining was solely financed by the EU grant.

C. Assistance to the Recovery of the Health Sector (Estimated: US$ 2.5 million, Actual:
   US$ 2.5 million). The project rehabilitated the island's two main hospitals, St.
   Georges' and Princess Alice, as well as three regional health facilities ­ Princess
   Royal Hospital, the Central Medical Stores, and the Vector Control Building. Patients
   benefited from renewed access to services and proper medical supplies storage on the
   island.
15
     CAS (2001), pg. 15.


                                           11
D. Support to the Project Management and Supervision (Estimated: US$ 0.2 million,
   Actual: US$ 0.425 million). The doubling of the resources used under this component
   is due to the increased activity deriving from EU trust fund management and
   activities.

3.3 Efficiency

44.     The project was efficient as the team focused on maximizing value for money,
and ensured that the funds were used for quick and permanent reconstruction efforts, and
not for temporary structures, as often occurs in disaster recovery.

45.      The cost of Project Management and Supervision more than doubled; however,
this is commensurate with the additional resources provided by the EU grant. Originally,
US$ 0.2 million were assigned to manage the Bank's US$ 10 million, but with the EU's
US$ 13.4 million, Project Management and Supervision increased reasonably, and do not
represent an inefficient management of resources.

46.      The Bank team was efficient in swiftly designing the ERL, which was the
appropriate instrument in this situation: the immediate disbursement of the US$ 2 million
for critical imports (Component 1) would not have been possible under standard Bank
procurement rules. In addition, the Bank worked quickly to reallocate funds from
ongoing operations to speed up the implementation of the recovery activities on the
ground. Finally, the Bank also used streamlined emergency procedures to speed up
internal fiduciary requirements and allow for quicker disbursement. The quick influx of
cash into the country lessened the liquidity crisis it faced after the hurricane, and reduced
the interruption of business.

47.    The disbursement schedule for the project also shows it was efficient in the
implementation of recovery activities. As seen in the graphs below, the project's
disbursement rate is higher than the projected rate and continued smoothly during
implementation. The curve is higher than the original because of the EU additional funds.




                                             12
                                                                              Difference
                                                                              due to EU
                                                                              funds.




The graph below shows the steady rise in disbursements during implementation.




3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

48.     The project was highly relevant and well-adapted to the post-hurricane context of
the island. It was designed to address the Government's priority sectors, health and
education, and in both sectors focused on the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the key
infrastructures.

49.    In terms of outputs, the project completed all the intended works. The EU grant
was leveraged to allow the expansion of the number of schools covered under the project
through co-financing with the Bank.




                                            13
50.     Since the project did not contain outcome (but rather output) indicators16, the ICR
team decided to retrofit some indicators to better capture and present the qualitative
changes attributable to the project. The first indicator focuses on the safety improvements
of the schools (hurricane resistant vs. not hurricane resistant), before and after the project.
The second indicator focuses on the quality improvement of the health facilities targeted
under the project.

Table 2. Retrofitted Outcome Indicators

        Outcome Indicator                 Baseline 200417           2009                  Result
Increase in number of public              2 out of 75           20 out of 75       There are 10 times
schools18 in Grenada with                 primary and           primary and        more hurricane
hurricane resistant standards vs.         secondary             secondary          resistant schools in
total number of schools in the            (2.6%)                (26.6%)            Grenada now than
country, before the project                                                        in 2004.
began (2004) and now (2009).
Out of 75 (total number of
primary and secondary public
schools in Grenada)
Increase in number of hospitals           1                     4                  There was only one
that are hurricane resistant in                                                    hurricane resistant
2004 vs. 2009.                                                                     hospital in Grenada
                                                                                   in 2004. The project
                                                                                   contributed to the
                                                                                   other 3 reaching the
                                                                                   same standards.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

51.     The 2004 OECS/ECLAC damage assessment report shows that 52 percent of
Grenadian households are headed by women. This means that providing for children and
the elderly often is women's responsibility. In 2004, the rate of female unemployment
was at 13 percent, and 38 percent of women participated in the labor force ­ which may
not include informal labor. To provide for their family, women depend on public
services, such as daycare, school, and healthcare. Damages to daycare centers, such as in
the Parish of St. Georges, which reported some 480 children without the care of the
guardian they had been accustomed to, affected female-headed households
disproportionately. Indeed, 70 percent of the daycare children's households were headed

16
   See footnote 4.
17
   This data has been collected by the Ministry of Education Statistics Department, and the Ministry of
Health.
18
   Primary and secondary levels only.


                                                    14
by a woman. Similarly, when children are in school, female heads of households can
seek employment (formally or informally) to provide for the children and elder members
of their households. With 73 out of the 75 schools of the island affected by Hurricane
Ivan, one can only imagine the additional burden on women.

52.     Children with disabilities require particular attention and care, if they are not in
school or in daycare, which may prevent mothers from working at all. Included within
the project's 18 schools, was Grenada's only School for the Deaf, i.e., the project also
focused on special-needs children. By supporting the rehabilitation of schools, as well as
the restoration of functioning health facilities, HIERP enabled women to remain in or re-
enter the labor force and contribute to the well-being of their households.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53.     Pre-Ivan, the most recent hurricane-related disaster in Grenada was in 1963, with
Hurricane Flora, which caused six deaths in the country. Having been spared from major
hazards for several decades, the country was unprepared to deal with the heavy impact of
Hurricane Ivan. Due to the seriousness of the damages, the PCU staff was incapacitated
or could not perform their regular functions, as they attended to their own homes and
families. Over time, as the emergency subsided and through the Bank's extensive support
to the Government, the PCU was strengthened, and was able to manage projects again.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (Positive or Negative)

54.     During the donors meeting organized to raise awareness on the impact of
Hurricane Ivan in Grenada, the Grenadian Government's lack of immediate liquidity
post-hurricane was discussed among the Caribbean countries, and recognized as a
common recurring problem in the region. Following the OECS/ECLAC damage and loss
assessment presentation, Caribbean Ministers of Finance discussed the need for a
financial loss mitigation mechanism, to pool resources and risk. CARICOM made an
official request to the Bank for its assistance in designing what became the Caribbean
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF), in 2006.

55.     In parallel with its work on the Hurricane Ivan Emergency Project, the Bank team
was also in ongoing discussions with the Operations Policy and Country Services (OPCS)
unit on the revision of the emergency lending procedures ­ OP/BP 8.5 to OP/BP 8.0. The
team provided substantive input in the revision of the policy, as it was implementing the
HIERP, in terms of lessons learned from the project.

56.     Additionally, the experience of Grenada with Hurricane Ivan was the basis for the
design of an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant in 2007, which would focus on
Caribbean Emergency Legislation. The Bank team took the lead in designing this project
working with the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA, the
former CDERA), which would examine legal and institutional framework triggered in
case of emergency in various countries in the region. The project would bring best




                                             15
practices that are most suited for the region, and recommend improvements to the
national frameworks.

57.    Finally, the extent of the damage caused by Hurricane Ivan, and the success of the
HIERP led the Grenadian Government's request for a comprehensive disaster
vulnerability reduction project. This follow-on operation would focus on mitigation
measures to reduce vulnerability to future disasters.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

None conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

58.      The risk to project outcomes ­ safer (hurricane resistant) schools and health
facilities ­ is low. The new infrastructure is stronger, and will resist damage better from
future hurricanes. Furthermore, both the Ministries of Education and Health have
maintenance budgets: the Ministry of Education has a budget of US$ 154,000 for school
maintenance, and the Ministry of Health EC$ 283,000 (about US$ 98,000) for the
community health centers ­ which includes the Vector Control Building financed under
the project, and EC$ 750,000 (about US$ 280,000) allocated to the Hospital Executive
Management Account, to provide goods and services. This amount is distributed to all
hospitals according to size, with the General Hospital (St. Georges) with the largest share.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

59.     The Bank's presence in the country post-Ivan was immediate and proactive,
allowing the team to quickly gain a comprehensive understanding of the damage caused
by the hurricane. This engagement was reflected through various actions the Bank took
in project preparation and designs to expedite its own internal procedures, most notably:
- The Bank's steady presence created a constructive dialogue with the Government,
    which helped design a project that responded well to the needs of the country and the
    context, as well as set the stage for the fast resolution of issues.
- Project indicators were kept at the level of output indicators, to reflect the emergency
    nature and scope (on reconstruction and rehabilitation) of the project.
- The initial use of Shopping for contracts that would typically have been processed
    under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) reduced delays.




                                            16
-   The Bank conducted numerous missions to assist the Grenadian Government with the
    definition and implementation of a recovery and reconstruction plan between
    September and November 2004. These missions not only enabled the borrower to
    manage the aftermath of the disaster, set priorities and request funding from the donor
    community, but they also determined the role of the Bank as a lead supporter and
    provider of technical assistance to the country. The Bank worked with the
    Government to guide donors into priority sectors that needed assistance, so as to
    avoid overlap and complement donor-financed activities.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

60.      Regular and in-depth supervision helped to address issues at several levels. At the
fiduciary level, supervision was well adapted to the emergency nature of the project;
while lower procurement thresholds for the purchase of goods and works meant a higher
risk to the Bank, frequent missions reduced this risk and ensured the timely resolution of
any issues during implementation. The Bank assisted the PCU in working with the
Grenadian Tenders Board, which moved slowly due to cumbersome internal legal
procedures. The Bank's active supervision and collaboration with the PCU helped to
move the tendering process forward and reduce additional delays.

61.    Supervision was crucial at the project management level: starting from before the
hurricane, the PCU had begun losing staff, due to problems with the PCU coordinator,
and was barely operational by the time Ivan hit the country. In the aftermath of the
hurricane, the Bank team provided close assistance to the PCU, which needed to be
reconstituted with new leadership and staff. This led to an operational PCU by November
of 2004. The Bank also assisted the PCU with the prioritization of works and facilitated
communications with the Ministries of Planning and Education.

62.    Finally, the Bank provided technical supervision of the engineering guidelines,
designs, and construction standards during implementation.

63.   The Bank team, however, did not modify the project indicators to measure
outcomes at the Midterm Review.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

64.     The Bank team was present for a week immediately after Ivan, followed by a
month between October and November 2005, in preparation for the donors meeting and
donors' conference. Then, from 2005, visits were at least twice a year. This active
supervision enabled the Bank to help the Government of Grenada identify and target the
sectors it most needed assistance with, and move forward with the execution of activities.




                                            17
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.     The Bank collaborated with the Ministry of Finance in assessing the damage and
identifying the principal sectors needing immediate assistance. Throughout the duration
of the project, key staff in the Government was responsive and action-oriented.

66.     The Government, however, was not able to prioritize works: It took nearly ten
months for the Ministry of Education to finalize a list of schools needing rehabilitation
and reconstruction. In 2005 and 2006, when faced with a shortage of cement and other
building materials, the Government allowed the continuation of construction works for
the Cricket Cup despite the reconstruction needs of the education and health sectors.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies' Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

67.     The PCU's capacity19 was put under heavy pressure after Hurricane Ivan in
managing ongoing projects, the increased donor activity, with flows of new funds into the
country, as well as the demands of the recovery phase, and the establishment of the
emergency recovery project (HIERP). When the PCU was originally established in 2002,
it only managed two projects, and it was initially unprepared for the sudden increase in
number and size of projects, which caused pressure on the agency. Furthermore, the PCU
had already been weakened due to poor leadership before the HIERP, and had begun
shedding staff even before Hurricane Ivan. Within a few weeks of the Hurricane,
however, adequate staff was in place, and the PCU was better able to respond to these
increased demands. The PCU provided timely supervision reports on the HIERP.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

68.     The Borrower demonstrated its commitment and ownership of the project through
its responsiveness, its regular reporting on the progress of the project, and its open
collaboration with the EU and the World Bank. Accounting for the extent of the damage
caused by Hurricane Ivan on private and public infrastructure, the local institutional and
contracting capacity and the level of demands on civil servants during the recovery
period, the Borrower performed satisfactorily.

6. Lessons Learned

19
  Currently staffed by eleven officers: a Project Coordinator, a Financial Management Specialist, a
Planner/Programmer, a Procurement Specialist, a Procurement Assistant, a Portfolio Manager (for the
education projects), two Accountants, a Procurement Officer, an Administrative Officer, and a Filing Clerk.


                                                    18
This project offers some important lessons for the execution of emergency operations.

69.     Immediate and active presence and attention to the post-disaster needs are
essential in meeting the recovery needs of the country, and establishing a good dialogue
with the counterpart. The Bank's rapid response in the immediate aftermath of the
disaster enabled it to provide assistance to the country in its recovery efforts and in the
preparation of the emergency project targeting key sectors. Furthermore, it ensured a joint
commitment to the project's objectives and resolution of issues during implementation.

70.    The Bank should work closely with the PCU and key ministries to target needs
and respond with appropriate assistance. The project illustrates that line ministries, such
as Education and Health, have little construction experience and greatly benefit from the
Bank's technical assistance for designing and implementing reconstruction/rehabilitation
programs.

71.     Emergency procurement is useful in the context of immediate recovery needs.
The length of time before switching from flexible to regular procurement methods would
depend on the magnitude of the disaster, the damages incurred, and the pace of
implementation on the ground. The HIERP successfully demonstrates this example, as
procurement processes were reverted to standard procedures by the end of 2006, adapting
to the situation in the country. A flexible design that allows accommodating the changing
needs of disaster management enables better tracking and understanding of the breadth of
the operation.

72.     Because of the short preparation time and the nature of emergency operations,
ERLs are riskier than standard Bank operations. This is particularly true concerning
expediency and controls over procurement processes, and it is important to consider
measures that mitigate risk. One of them is having a procurement consultant on staff
closely following the project throughout its lifetime. This implies having a relatively
large supervision budget, where a good percentage may be used to pay for a procurement
specialist.

73.     Streamlined procurement processes in emergency situations both on the country
and the Bank sides are essential in ensuring faster delivery times. While the Bank adopts
OP/BP 8.0 to fast-track procedures internally, borrowing countries often do not have
emergency procurement processes. To this effect, the Organization of American States
(OAS) is currently implementing a World Bank Institutional Development Fund (IDF)
grant for the Caribbean Emergency Legislation Project.




                                            19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower did not provide comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

The European Commission did not provide comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                         20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million Equivalent)

                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
           Components                                               Estimate (USD
                                     (USD Millions)20                                 Appraisal
                                                                      Millions)21
 Critical Imports                   2                           2                   100%
 Assistance to the Recovery
                                    5                           4.8                 96%
of the Education Sector
 Assistance to the Recovery
                                    2.5                         2.5                 100%
of the Health Sector
 Project Management                 0.2                         0.425               212.5%*
Total Baseline Cost                 9.7                         9.735
Contingencies                       0.280                       0.250
Front End Fees                      0.030                       0.025
 Total Financing Required                   10.01                    10.01
* Due to additional EU funds. See Section 3.3, p.12.

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal          Actual/Late
                                            Type of     Estimate            st Estimate Percentage
             Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing     (USD                 (USD     of Appraisal
                                                        Millions)            Millions)
EU                                                    13.4                 13.4         0%
IBRD                                                  5                    5            50%
International Development
                                                            5              5           50%
Association (IDA)




20
     From Technical Annex, p. 22.
21
     From PCU Budget Unit.


                                                       21
                                         22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Financing of Critical Imports

                    Goods                Total Cost (as of July
                                               13, 2009)
       Low-Sulfur Diesel Fuel                     2,000,000.00

Component 2. Assistance to the Recovery of the Education Sector: Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction of Schools (US$5 million)

The project financed the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the education sector:

                    Works                 Bank Financed       EU Trust         Total Cost (as
                                           (IBRD/IDA)          Fund             of July 13,
                                                                                   2009)
1  Repairs to Presentation                     265,861.26         174,770.86     440,632.12
   Brothers College
2 Repairs to School for the                     34,658.03          63,886.50       98,544.53
   Deaf
3 Rehabilitation to Mac Donald                  72,622.06               0.00       72,622.06
   College ­ Laboratories
4 Repairs to St. Joseph                        322,015.51         172,605.98     494,621.49
   Convent
5 Rehabilitation to T. A.                      182,678.00               0.00     182,678.00
   Marryshow Community
   College
6 Rehabilitation to Mac Donald                 174,732.23         183,825.30     358,557.53
   College
7 Rehabilitation of St.                         32,119.99          64,746.20       96,866.19
   Georges' Anglican School
8 Rehabilitation of Happy Hill                 113,256.83         203,807.69     317,064.52
   Secondary School
9 Rehabilitation of St. Paul's                1,328,950.86              0.00    1,328,950.86
   Government School
10 Rehabilitation of St.                       277,258.69         737,002.00    1,014,260.69
   Andrew's Anglican
   Secondary School
11 Rehabilitation of St.                       112,779.58         523,366.13     636,145.69
   Georges' Methodist School
12 Rehabilitation of Boca                      428,272.79         351,937.52     780,210.31

22
     Information obtained through PCU.


                                                22
                Works                 Bank Financed         EU Trust     Total Cost (as
                                       (IBRD/IDA)            Fund         of July 13,
                                                                             2009)
     Secondary School
13   Rehabilitation of Anglican           218,227.50        704,410.45      922,637.95
     High School
14   Rehabilitation of Birchgrove          31,660.99        286,948.88      316,609.87
     R. C. School
15   Repair/Rehabilitation of              39,406.40        354,457.69      393,386.09
     Hermitage Government
     School
16   Repair/Rehabilitation of J.W.         52,515.12        472,377.74      524,892.86
     Fletcher Memorial School
17   Repair/Rehabilitation of St.         235,496.10        880,010.31    1,115,506.41
     John's Christian Secondary
     School
18   Repair/Rehabilitation of Holy         35,532.72        302,028.12      337,560.84
     Innocents Anglican School
19   Repair/Rehabilitation of              62,322.14        541,521.30      603,843.44
     Hillsborough Secondary
     School
     TOTAL Works                        4,020,366.78    6,015,702.67 10,036,069.45
                 Goods
     School Furniture                                                       251,258.23
     Vehicles                                                                25,853.73
     Science Equipment                                                       72,000.00
     TOTAL Goods                                                            349,111.96
              Consultants
     Consultants                                                            409,321.93

Component 3. Assistance to the Recovery of the Health Sector

                Works                 Total Cost (as of
                                       July 13, 2009)
     Repairs to General Hospital              133,477.48
     Repairs to Central Medical               418,914.19
     Stores Building
     Retrofitting of Princess Royal            381,357.43
     Hospital
     Reconstruction of Vector                  252,140.28
     Control Building
     Repairs/Rehabilitation of                 655,673.40
     Princess Alice Hospital



                                          23
    TOTAL Works                               1,841,562.78
                Goods
    Oxygen Tanks                                  36,713.78
    Lab Equipment ­ Scientific                   136,517.72
    Supplies and Technology Inc.
    Vehicle                                       22,319.77
    Fork Lift & Pallet Jack                       48,970.00
    Generator                                     59,481.94
    Emergency Equipment                          440,775.34
    Geriatric Beds and Patient                    38,683.12
    Lifts
    Chiller/Freezer                               44,992.33
    TOTAL Goods                                  828,454.00


Component 4. Support to Project Management and Supervision

               Goods                 Total Costs (as of
                                      July 13, 2009)
    Office Equipment and                      19,976.22
    Furniture
    Computer Equipment                         10,027.16
    TOTAL Goods                                30,003.38
              Consultants
    PCU Staff                                261,524.44
    Financial Audit                           13,500.00
    TOTAL Consultant Services                275,024.44
        Operating Expenses                    79,740.40

      HIERP Total Expenditure               9,833,585.67


Original Project Indicators (From Technical Annex):

 (i) The successful importation of low-sulfur diesel fuel for energy production and
transport, as well as other critical goods such as construction materials and equipment
needed for the overall reconstruction effort;
(ii) The number of students who have returned to school, on a quarterly basis; and
(iii) The number of hospital beds that have been rehabilitated to an operational level, on a
quarterly basis.




                                            24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

74.   There was no cost-benefit analysis conducted for this project, as it was an
emergency project.

75.     However, the Bank's 2006 Policy Note "Not If but When: Adapting to Natural
Hazards in the Pacific Islands Region" provided some guidance as to how to value the
investments in disaster mitigation achieved under the project. The Policy Note includes a
table on Caribbean islands, where it compares the original project costs, the
reconstruction costs, and the risk management of natural hazard (RMNH) costs as a
percentage of both. The table below shows the differences in costs of prevention vs.
reconstruction in the Caribbean (in US$), and illustrates how prevention is much less
costly than reconstruction.

Infrastructure         Deepwater Port    Troumasse          Norman Manley        Grand
                       (Dominica)        Bridge             Law School           Palazzo
                                         (St. Lucia)        (Jamaica)            Hotel (St.
                                                                                 Thomas)
Original project       5,700,000         185,000            685,000              28,000,000
cost
Reconstruction         2,310,000         32,000             28,800               5,308,000
costs after disaster
Reconstruction as      40.7%             17.4%              4.2%                 19%
% of original
construction cost
RMNH costs as %        11.5%             10.8%              1.9%                 0.1%
of original
construction costs
RMNH costs as %        28.0%             62.4%              45.0%                0.5%
of reconstruction
costs

The Hurricane Ivan Emergency Project invested in hurricane resistant designs, and
project works were built to higher standards (hurricane resistant) than the pre-existing
ones. It is likely that in the occurrence of another Ivan-like hurricane, the targeted schools
and health facilities will be much less affected than in 2004.

76.     The ICR follows a methodology used in the Implementation Completion Report
for the Samoa Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project (P088246) called Value for Money
Assessment (VFMA), which can be applied to the HIERP to reflect qualitative benefits
gained with regard to economy and quality. The criteria used to rate the VFMA of the
project is listed below, with supporting evidence from the project:

    (a) Project investment objectives: The project met its objective satisfactorily; it
        responded to the reconstruction and recovery efforts in the country and was
        relevant in addressing the requests of the Government.


                                             25
   (b) Financial, human and physical resources consumed: The actual project
       management costs were higher than at appraisal, but this is explained by the
       additional demands of managing the EU trust fund by the PCU. There was no
       total budget overrun, and the PCU hired necessary staff to meet its increased
       workload.

   (c) Processes for rules and regulations: Bank rules and regulations were respected
       during implementation, initially under OP/BP 8.5, and then as the project changed
       to standard Bank operations procedures.

   (d) Quality of reconstruction: Outputs finished under this project (schools, health
       facilities) were built with higher and safer standards. Good supervision during
       implementation, with numerous site visits from both the PCU and the Bank team
       allowed the verification of the quality of works as they progressed.

   (e) Impact and utilization of investments: The impact and utilization of the outputs is
       as expected at appraisal. The children are back in their rehabilitated schools, and
       health facilities have been functioning and serving patients. Princess Alice
       Hospital patients now have access to emergency services within proximity.

77.     The benefit of the project in large part is that the student population in the
targeted schools is now in safer, hurricane resistant schools. Furthermore, with the
Government's interest in furthering this initiative to other schools ­ retrofitting them with
mitigation measures ­ it is that even more Grenadian children will be safer in the future.

78.     The team explored, but did not delve into a more in-depth economic analysis
based on life earnings for children, which would be hard to estimate, as children were not
off school for an extended period of time (so long as it would visibly affect their life
earnings), as they were schooled in temporary shelters while rehabilitation was ongoing.
It would be difficult to measure how being schooled in temporary establishments would
directly affect the learning (and later, earning) rates.

79.     Similarly for the health sector benefits, estimating how the earning or productivity
levels of the patients were affected through the rehabilitation of the hospitals and other
health facilities would require a more in-depth analysis of the typology of the patients
(medial needs and wage levels, access to health services, for instance) against a baseline
that was not estimated at the beginning of the emergency project.




                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                              Responsibility/
          Names                               Title                  Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Francis Ghesquiere           Task Team Leader                      LCSUW
Marc Forni                   ET Consultant                         LCSUW
Gerald Meier                 Environmental Specialist              LCSUW
Norma Rodriguez              Procurement Specialist                LCSUW
                             Hazard Risk Management                LCSUW
Joaquin Toro
                             Specialist
Svetlana Klimenko            FM Specialist                         LCSUW

Supervision/ICR
Gerald Meier                 Environmental Specialist              LCSUW
Nara C. Meli                 ET Consultant                         LCSUW
Ulrich Myboto                ET Consultant                         LCSUW
Niels Holm-Nielsen           Task Team Leader                      LCSUW
Francis Ghesquiere           Task Team Leader                      LCSUW
                             Disaster Risk Management
Joaquin Toro                                                      LCSUW
                             Specialist
Seyoum Solomon               Procurement Specialist                LCSUW

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank-
                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project                                                          managed EU TF)
Cycle                No. of Staff      USD Thousands (including USD Thousands (including
                       Weeks           travel and consultant costs) travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                          3.48                        85,945

          Total:                3.48                        85,945

Supervision/ICR
 FY05                          4.37                         46,993
  FY06                         8.73                         82,229                       10,611
  FY07                         7.70                         47,413                       14,995
  FY08                         6.03                         32,195                       61,713
  FY09                        20.73                         54,970                       67,664
 FY10                          6.80                         49,183                       39,781

           Total:           54.36                          312,985                      194,814
    Total Bank+EU Staff Costs                                                           507,799


                                               27
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 General Objectives

The general objective of the Project was to support the recovery efforts of the
Government of Grenada through the financing of critical imports and rehabilitation
activities in key social sectors.

Specific Objectives

The specific objectives of the Project included:

(1)    Supporting the Government's overall reconstruction efforts through the financing
       of actual imports.

(2)    Restoring school infrastructure.

(3)    Supporting the rehabilitation of health-care infrastructure to ensure adequate
       access to quality health-care facilities.

Quality of Entry

Early assessments were carried out following Hurricane Ivan, a category 3 storm, which
struck the island on September 7th, 2004. The hurricane almost completely devastated the
country's educational infrastructure, with only two (2) of the seventy-five (75) primary
and secondary schools surviving intact. These two schools were constructed under the
Basic Education Reform Project, a previous Bank-financed project, were located in safe
(protected) areas, and were designed and constructed in accordance with hurricane
resistant standards.

The project was designed as an immediate to short-term response with a focus on
assisting the Government of Grenada to return to normal schooling within the shortest
possible time frame.

The overall economic context was defined by a significant decline in Government
revenue which limited the capacity of the Government of Grenada to finance the
immediate needs of the education system. The Government's early recovery efforts were
therefore very limited in scope and impact. There was an urgent need for technical and
financial scope from the region and international donor and financing community.

Early intervention and commitments to assist in the recovery process came from the
World Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the European Union as well as regional
and International Governments.

With specific reference to the education sector, the World Bank quickly agreed to the
restructuring of the ongoing OECS Educational Development Project with a view to



                                            28
enabling the project to provide a more effective response to the country's post hurricane
needs. This was complemented by the Caribbean Development Bank which also
restructured an ongoing Education Development Project of which physical improvements
of schools was a major component.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Outputs by Components

Critical Imports

The project provided US$ 2.0 million for the procurement of critical imports of low sulfur
diesel fuel to enable the resumption of power supply throughout the country. This was
supplemented by an additional US$ 450,000 which was reallocated from the Emergency
Recovery and Disaster Management Project.

School Rehabilitation

Eighteen (18) Government Primary and Secondary Schools were refurbished /
rehabilitated through the proceeds of the project for a total cost of US$ 5.3 million. This
amount was complemented by US$ 5 million from the OECS Education Development
Project.

Rehabilitation of Medical Facilities

Five medical facilities were rehabilitated by the project at the cost of US$ 2.5 million.
This was complemented by US$ 1.3 million from the HIV/ AIDS Prevention and Control
Project, which was used for rehabilitation of medical facilities and renovation /
construction of homes of people living with HIV and AIDS.

Implementation and Supervision

Project Management was carried out by the Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of
Finance with technical support from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of
Communication and Works.

Technical support in the areas of design, preparation of tender documents, tender
evaluation and construction supervision was provided by a consulting firm which was
contracted for this purpose.

World Bank staff provided strong support through regular supervision missions and
through technical advice from Washington. Bank staff also facilitated quick turn-around
on request for "No Objection" advice, etc.

 Institutional Development Impact




                                            29
At the date of effectiveness of the project, a Project Coordination Unit, with
responsibility for the coordination of World-Bank-financed projects had already existed
within the Ministry of Finance. This Unit was tasked with the responsibility of
coordinating the implementation of the Project.

Project staff at the PCU and support personnel at the Ministry of Education and the
Ministry of Works benefitted from knowledge of Bank procedures and guidelines and
regular interaction with Bank staff.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Factors Outside of the Control of the Government and the Implementation Agency

In the first two years following the passage of Hurricane Ivan, the country was affected
by an acute shortage of skilled construction labor as well as a shortage of building
materials, in particular cement. This had a negative impact on the rate of implementation
of several of the projects.

The Implementation Agency (the PCU) was negatively affected by the extended period of
time it took the Ministry of Education to select beneficiary schools. Although this
tardiness in decision­making was partly the result of the gap between available resources
and needs, it nonetheless results in a later than originally expected start-up of some
projects.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

(1)    The list of approved schools was revised several times. This had a negative
       impact as regards the commencement of the procurement process and eventually
       the implementation of the works.

(2)    The repeated revision of the list of schools negatively affected the works of the
       consultants. In some cases, designed work which had already started had to be
       abandoned in view of new priorities.

(3)    The requirements of the contact award approval process, which includes approval
       by both the Tenders Board and Cabinet, resulted in prolonged delays in the
       approval of recommendations for award of contract. In some cases the
       recommendations of the consultant (and the PCU) were reversed by either the
       Tenders Board or Cabinet resulting in further delays.

Bank / Borrower Performance

The Bank

Lending




                                           30
The Bank facilitated the Project preparation process and obtained Board approval at a
quicker than normal rate as a result the emergency nature of the situation, with a view to
facilitating speedy implementation. The Bank also relaxed its procurement requirements
delivering direct contracting in specific circumstances.

Supervision

Bank staff made regular supervision missions and in general kept themselves informed on
project implementation processes and issues through electronic mail and the telephone.
This was a means of valuable support to the PCU during the entire implementation
process.

Overall Bank Performance

Overall, the support and guidelines provided by the Bank from project identification
through to implementation were of the highest quality and need to be commended.

The Borrower

Implementation Performance

The Project implementation was negatively impacted by slow decision-making at
different levels of Government operation including the Ministry of Education, the
Tenders Board and the Cabinet.

The slow decision-making negatively affected the work of the consultants and the project
coordination efforts of the PCU and ultimately contributed to a slower than expected rate
of Project implementation.

Overall Performance

In spite of the above-mentioned implementation problems, both the development and
specific objectives of the Project were achieved. It should be noted that relevant
Government agencies were fully aware of relevant Project implementation issues at all
times. The major problem was the lack of timely decision-making.

Lessons Learnt

Very significant lessons were learnt in relation to all the phases of the project cycle.
These include the following:

(1)    It is important, as much as possible, to make firm decisions during the project
       preparation and approval process. Post-approval decisions relating to the selection
       of schools and the allocation of resources took considerably more time than
       originally expected.




                                           31
(2)   A lack of appreciation of Bank procedures and Guidelines among key
      functionaries and decision-makers can slow project implementation. This was the
      case with this project. Measures need to be taken to sensitize relevant officers.

(3)   A high level of official interest in the outcome of the procurement process can
      place persons involved in the process under unnecessary pressure.




                                         32
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Project Coordination Unit expressed substantial agreement with the results of the
Implementation Completion Report.




                                           33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Technical Annex
Project Memorandum to the President
Implementation Status Reports
HIERP Mid-Term Report
PCU Activity Report
Bank Procurement Guidelines
HIERP Loan Agreement
OECS/ECLAC 2004 Assessment
ERDMP Implementation Completion Report

"Grenada, A Nation Rebuilding. An assessment of reconstruction and economic recovery
one year after Hurricane Ivan", World Bank. Washington, DC. 2005.

World Bank. 2006. "Not If But When. Adapting to Natural Hazards in the Pacific Islands
Region." Policy Note - East Asia and Pacific Region Pacific Islands Country
Management Unit.
Washington, D.C.




                                          34
Annex 8. Images

Image 1. Hurricane Ivan over Grenada. (NOAA, National Hurricane Center)




Image 2. Hurricane Ivan as it approached the Windward Island, September 5, 2004.
(NASA Terra Satellite Image).



                                         35
Images 3-4. General damage on the island
(World Bank team photos)




                                           36
Images 2-3. Wesley College. (World Bank team photos)




September 14, 2004




August 21, 2005




                                        37
Image 9. Anglican High School post Ivan (World Bank team photo)




Images 10-11. Anglican High School, 2009 (Government of Grenada photos)




                                        38
Image 7. Princess Alice Hospital (60 beds) (World Bank team photo)




90 percent of the roof lost, most of the equipment, furniture and supplies were either
destroyed by water damage or looted.

Image 8. Princess Alice Hospital (2009) rehabilitated. (World Bank team photos)




                                            39
40
