Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-A.' zeqr-7m
Report No. 6877-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
November 10, 1987
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ooly in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thailand Baht (B)
(as of Jar.uary 1987)
B 1             -    US$0.0385
B 1 million    =    US$38,461
US$1            -    B 26
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =    3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =    0.39 miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                     =    0.28 US gallons (gal)
-    0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)            =    1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
=    0.98 British long-tons (lg ton)
-    1 million grams
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt     -     annual average daily vehicle traffic
ADB      -     Asian Development Bank
ARD      -     Office of Accelerated Rural Development
BCEOM    -     Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipments d'Outre Mer
DOH      -     Department of Highways
ETO      -     Express Transport Organization
JICA     -     Japan International Cooperation Agency
LTD      -     Land Transport Department
LPG      -     Liquified petroleum gas
MOC      -     Ministry of Communications
MOI      -     Ministry of Interior
OECF     -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
NESDB    -     Nationa' Economic and Social Development Board
PAT      -     Port Authority of Thailand
PWD      -     Public Works Department
RID      -     Royal Irrigation Department
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditures
SRT      -     State Railways of Thailand
TCA      -     Thai Contractors Association
TPU      -     Transport Planning Unit
TPMS     -     Thailand Pavement Management System
V-km     -     vehicle-km



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....                    1
A. General ........  ...............................                    1
B.  The Transport System ............................ ...... ..         1
C.  Transport Sector Investment, Coordination and Planning..            3
D, Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector c t or............          4
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR   .............. * *..6....... ,        ... ..    6
A.  The Highway Network ................................. *......       6
B. Road Transport..                                                     7
C.  Highway Administration..... .......e...... ........ . ...           9
D.  Highway Planning and Financing........ s...............           ;1
E, Highway Engineering and Construction.........,.........            12
F.  Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation,.........6..,...            13
C.  Staff and Training ....................      ...........          15
III.  DOH's 1987-1991 PROGRAM........ ...............................        16
A*                                                                    eea ............................... 16
B.  Program Components and Description........................         16
C.  Financing ............... . ......4.*. . . .                       19
D.  Institutional Improvements .......o............. ,o.......         20
E.  Assessment and Impact on Sector Policieslicie...s......            20
IV.   BANK PARTICIPATION.................                                    22
B.  Subprojects Eligible for Bank Financing...........o.....           24
C. Conditions and Procedures for Procurement of Bank
Financed Subprojects.b *p roj e c tss 04444444..........         25
D.  Monitoring and Auditing .. ....................... .               27
E.  Dissrburmseement s. . ....                                         28
F.  Economic Justfctio         ificatiooooooo**o n,*066                28
G. Assessment of Risk            .....................*.,.             29
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................         30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of
E. Pinilla (Highway Engineer), L. Nordin (Economist), C. Carlsson (Road Safety
Specialist), and Somchob Chaiyavej (Training specialist) which visited
Tnailand in March, 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
TABLES
1.1    Passenger and Freight Transport by Mode, 1981****......         31
1.2    Government Five-Year Plan Investments in Transport.....         32
2.1    National and Provincial Highway Networks (1965-1985) ...        33
2.2    Department of Highways' Roads by Regions in 1985 .......        34
2.3    Motor Vehicle Registration 1970-1984....*.*.*.......o..         35
2.4    Vehicles-kilometer for the year 1981-1985,....XX...*.*.         36
2.5    Department of Highways Expenditures and Sourcesooes,
of Finance 1972-1986...... ***0*,** * ....***0 .  .  .        37
2.6    Estimates of Tax Receipts from Road Sectoro t.or.......o        38
2.7    Design Standards for National and Provincial Roads...           39
2.8    Department of Highways Budget, 1984-l986o..0.......86..         40
2.9    Estimated Highway Maintenance Budget Requirements....           41
3.1    DOH's Total Expenditure Program, 1987-1991.o00........          42
3.2    DOH's Development Plan 1987-1991.o.o..0............91..         43
4.1    Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads First
Year Construction Program.....ooo.o.o...o......o..            44
4.2    First Year Rehabilitation Program...o g r am..............      45
4.3    Tentative Allocation of the Proposed Loa n                      46
4.4    Road Safety Program - Summary of DOH's First Year
P r o g r amoooo**o.******oooooto*ooooo.o*ooeooosooooooo*    47
4.5    Tentative Program for Swedish Assistance to NSC........         48
4.6    Summary of Proposed Training Program for
WH Staff, 1988-1990o.0.*.......*0 .4 .........     .04449440  49
4.7    Tentative Cost of DOHs Training Program, 1988-1990.....         50
4.8    Summary of Consultant Services to be financed
-under the                          Lon............................51
4.9    Tentative Procurement Arrangements......................        52
4.10   Estimated Schedule of Disburseunents ements.o....e...           53
ANNEXES
1  Action Proramsr                           a      m     s         54
2      Example of Summary Data Sheet for Candidate Subprojects         59
3      Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   60
CHART
31177        Organization of Department of Highways...............            61
MAP
IBRD 20218   National Highways and Provincial Roads System



- iii -
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:        Department of Highways (DOH)
Amount:             US$50 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years including four years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Project
Description:     The basic objective of the proposed project is to assist
the Borrower in sustaining an efficient road transport
system. The project will support ongoing efforts to
(a) improve road maintenance efficiency; (b) continue the
highway rehabilitation and strengthening program;
(c) upgrade planning and programming of pavement
strengthening and resealing; (d) undertake selected road
improvements; and (e) reduce road traffic hazards.
The loan would finance components of DOH's 1987-91 road
development plan and periodic maintenance program.
Specific subprojects to be financed under the loan would be
selected on the basis of agreed-upon criteria and proce-
dures. Major components of DOH's program, for which most
of the loan proceeds would be used are rehabilitation,
period".c maintenance and paving programs. Other components
include road safety, training, testing and office equipment
and consultant services. The project does not present
serious technical or organizational risks.
Estimated Cost: /a
Local     Foreign      Total
…-- (US$ million) ------
DOH's Development Plan (1987-91)
Rehabilitation and reconstruction           214.3       214.3       428.6
Improvement of congested roads              111.3       111.3       222.6
Safety Program                                7.7        16.1        23.8
Interchanges and bridges                     17.2        13.9        31.1
New road construction                        26.0        21.0        47.0
Upgrading to bitumen standards              122.8       122.7       245.5
Total Cost                             499.3       499.3       998.6
/a Inclusive of taxes and duties amounting to about $42.9 million.



- IV -
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign       Total
----- (US$ million)   -
Government                                      499.3       260.9       760.2
World Bank
Highway Sector Loan                              -         50.0        50.0
Ongoing and proposed loans /b                    -         89.1        89.1
Other proposed foreign loans
Ongoing and proposed loans                       -         99.3        99.3
Total                                     499.3       499.3       998.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                                         1988     1989    1990  1991
…------ (Us$ million) -------
Annual                                           3.1      14.1    22.8  10.0
Cumulative                                       3.1      17.2    40.0  50.0
Economic
Rate of Return:      Over 12%
!Mp:                    IBRD 20218
/b     The Government is planning to seek a US$50 million Bank Loan in FY90 to
continue Bank support for this program.



2HAILAND
HICHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.1       Since the mid-1960s the Thai economy has grown rapidly as a result
of the development of the agricultural sector. This growth generated a high
demand for transport. To accommodate the growing demand, the Government has
undertaken large transport investments (in particular for road infrastructure)
and has created a policy environment in which a competitive transport industry
has developed. Today, all changwats (provinces) are interlinked with a good
interregional and interprovincial communications network, and transport
services have penetrated the majority of previously remote rural areas.
1.2       The country's transport system is multimodal, cotsisting, in order
of importance, of road, rail, inland waterways, maritime, air and pipeline
transportation. The sector agencies, except for pipeLines, are under the
Ministry of Communications (MOC). Road transport has become predominant,
supported by large infrastructure investments. Railway and water transport
have also developed, but at a more modest rate. Roads carry about 80% of all
freight ton-km, followed by rail with 10%, coastal shipping 6% and inland
waterways 4% (Table 1.1). For passenger transport, the role of road transport
is even more pronounced--about 90% of all passenger-km are carried by road, as
compared with 10% by rail.
B. The Transport System
Highways
1.3       The highway subsector and its administration are discussed in detail
in Chapter II.
ailways
1.4       The rail network consists of about 3;800 route-km of meter gauge
lines: 90 km are double-track and the remainder single-track (Map IBRD
20218). Three main lines (3,046 km) radiate from Bangkok: the Northern Line
to Chiang Mai; the Northeastern Line to Nong Khai on the Laotian border and to
Ubon Ratchatani; and the Southern Line to the Malaysian border at Padang Besar
and at Sungai Kolok. In addition, there are nine branch lines (total length
749 km). A direct connection has been completed between the Eastern Line and
the country's second biggest deep-sea port at Sattahip, and plans to provide
shorter connections between Sattahip and the Northeastern Line are under
consideration.
1.5       The railway system is administered by the State Railway of Thailand
(SRT), which has recently embarked on a program to reduce its increasing



budget deficits and to "break even". This can only be achieved through a
combination of marketing efforts, cost containment and efficiency measures,
accompanied by improvements in service and tariff increases. These are being
addressed under the Bank-financed Railway Efficiency Improvement Project.
Inland Waterways
1.6    Thailand has a well-developed inland waterway system covering well over
one-third of the country and extending over 1,600 km of navigable waterways.
Most of this length is in the northern corridor between Bangkok and Uttaradit
along the Chao Phrya and Nan rivers. The remainder is along the Mekong River
on the Thai-Laotian border. However, unrestricted year-round transport is
possible on only about 100 km of the Chao Phrya. Navigation in the other
sections is seasonally limited, forcing barges to detour on slow and costly
routes, reduce payloads or cease operations during the low water season.
1.7    To utilize the system's potential for low cost transport, the shallow
river sections are being deepened, with Bank assistance, under the Inland
Waterways and Coastal Ports Project (Loan 1889-TH). The project also includes
construction of two new river ports and promotion of a new barge dezign and
operation. Fleet development is expected to be undertaken by the tradition-
ally vigorous and competitive private sector, which handles most of the
barges, terminals and loading points. The administration and maintenance of
the rivers is the responsibility of the Harbour Department in MOC.
Ports
1.8    Thailand has some 30 shallow-draft "coastal" ports which vary greatly
in size. Frequent maintenance dredging, and in some cases capital dredging,
is required. The Harbour Department's capacity to perform these functions is
being improved under the Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project.
1.9    There are two commercial deep-water ports for dry cargo:  the Port of
Bangkok on the Chao Phrya and the former naval facility at Sattahip on the
Eastern Seaboard. The Port of Bangkok consists of the Klong Toei wharves,
which are operated by the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT), and other
privately owned and managed facilities. Sattaiip is also operated by PAT.
The Bank assisted Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project (Loan 1918-TH), to
improve port facilities at Bangkok and Sattahip and to create an inland
container freight terminal at Bang Sue, experienced delays. The Government
decided to cancel the Sattahip port and Bang Sue terminal components from the
project in favor of private development. Two deep-water ports at Songkhla and
Phuket in the southern region are being developed with financing from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). In addition, the Government, plans to construct
deepwater ports at Laem Chabang and Mab Ta Pud to further the industrial
development of the Eastern Seaboard.



-3-
Urban Transport
1.10 Although Thailand has a relatively low level of urbanization (171), its
urban population is increasing at about 5.5% annually, which is approximately
twice the national population growth rate. Bangkok dominates the urban scene
with more than half of the nation's urban population. Over half of the
country's vehicle-km 's produced within a 150 km radius of Bangkok.
1.11   Bangkok's traffic conditions are among the worst in Asia.  Severe
congestion is the principal symptom, with long jotrney times, high fuel
consumption and heavy pollution. Rapid growth of the human and vehicle
populations, divided responsibility among separate agencies with no
coordinating authority, and inadequate investments, have contributed to the
growing seriousness of the situation over the past 10-15 years. The Bank-
financed Bangkok Traffic Management Project (Loan 1638-TH) has assisted in
addressing the traffic management aspects.
C. Transport Sector Investment, Coordination and Planning
Investments
1.12   The country's various transport modes have developed smoothly over the
past quarter century with appropriate balance among the modes to serve
different transport demands. During the Third Five-Year Development Plan
(1972-76), public sector irvestments in transport were about B 20 billion, or
20% of total investments, in current prices. Under the fourth plan (1977-81)
the transport investments were about B 30 billion but their share of total
investments dropped to 12%, partly because the interregional road system was
substantially completed. The investment allocations increased sharply in the
fifth plan (1982-86) to about B 72 billion, but their percentage of total
development expenditure remained at about 13% in current prices (Table 1.2).
During the total 15-year period (1972-1986) the level of road investments
decreased in real terms and their share of the sector investment expenditures
also decreased from about 82X in the third plan to about 35% in the fifth
plan. In the road subsector the initial imperative was to provide main road
links among the principal regional centers and between them and Bangkok.
Thus, before 1972, road development focused on the arterial national system,
while later, in the third and fourth plans, policies were aimed at development
of the rural areas through the construction and improvement of the provincial
and rural roads. The fifth plan continued the improvement of the provincial
roads while starting to promote better efficiency in the operation of the
transport system and placing emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation.
1.13 The Sixth Development Plan (1987-91) includes about B 79 billion for
transport sector investments (about 12% of total development expenditures).
The pian devotes about 42% of the sector investments to roads. Government
goals outlined for the transport sector focus on increased utilization of
assets, improved efficiency, increased self-reliance of state enterprises and
privatization. Specific highway subsectoral goals include a proper balance
between investment and maintenance expenditures including rehabilitation of
highways, reduction of traffic congestion and provision of a higher level of
road safety (para. 3.16). Thus the proposed Highway Sector Project with its
emphasis on national road rehabilitation and maintenance is most timely.



-4-
Planning and Coordination
L.14   MOC is reponsible for transport sector matters.  It controls the sector
through several Government departments including the Department of Highways
(DOH), the Harbour Department, the Land Transport Department (LTD) and two
autonomous agencies (SRT and PAT). Administration of rural roads, however, is
under the Ministry of Interior (MOI). MOC is responsible for transport
policy, sectoral planning and coordination and overall investment budgeting.
The National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), in its capacity as
the central planning agency, participates in sector policy formulation and
coordination. Responsibilitv for resource allocation is shared between NESDB,
the Ministry of Finance and the Bureau of Budget.
1.15   On the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) was
set up in 1974 within MOC to provide MOC with technical expertise for trans-
port planning, coordination and policy formulation. Parallel efforts have
been made, with or without Bank assistance, to bolster subsectoral planning
capabilities at the departments and autonomous agencies. As a result, consid-
erable progress has been made in institutional development in these areas.
D. Bank InvoLvement in the Transport Sector
1.16   The Bank has been involved in all transport modes, except civil
aviation, and has helped finance 20 transportation projects. The total amount
of loans (including cancellations) is US$614.6 million. The largest recipient
of loan funds has been the Department of Highways with US$396.6 million
followed by the State Railway of Thailand, with US$81.7 million, the Port
Authority of Thailand, wizt US$67.3 million, the Harbour Department with
US$53.0 million, and the Ministry of Interior with US$16.0 million for Bangkok
traffic improvement. Of these 20 projects, 16 have been completed. Through
these loans, the Bank has assisted in the development of a well-balanced
transport system that supports Thailand's economic growth.
1.17   Eight Bank loans have been made to DOH over the past quarter century.
The loans helped finance construction and/or rehabilitation of about 3,100 km
of national and 2,800 km of provincial roads; technical assistance for the
reorganization of DOS and training of its staff; a study of road maintenance;
equipment for road maintenance and workshops; technical. assistance to TPU in
HOC; and a series of feasibility and engineering studies to prepare road
projects. Bank assistance has also been given to the Office of Accelerated
Rural Development (ARD) for construction of about 1,300 km of village access
roads as part of the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project (Loan
1198-TH).
1.18   The first four DOH projects were executed efficiently and with
substantial cost savings because of increased efficiency and competition in
the domestic construction industry combined with relative stability of
domestic prices. The fifth project encountered some delays and cost overruns
because of the sharp oil price increases, which required rebidding of several
contracts. The sixth project has also been completed. The project costs were
about 6% less than the appraisal estimates. However, the original closing
date of the loan was extended by 12 months due partly to initial delays in



- 5 -
bidding and contract award, followed by slow progress by some of the contrac-
tors. The seventh project, for construction of 740 km of provincial roads, is
substantially completed, within the original cost estimates. The eighth
project is proceeding well. It reflects the increasing importance of
maintenance operations by the inclusion of strengthening and rehabilitation
works on about 1,000 km of paved national and provincial roads (the first
effort on such a scale) so as to prevent expensive road reconstruction and
higher road user costs. The project is expected to be completed on schedule
within the original cost estimates.
1.19   Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been circulated on the
first six highway projects. The main comments concerned overestimation of
construtcion cost contingencies and in some cases underestimation of traffic
growth. It appears that the appraisals had not fully anticipated (a) the good
quality of works supervision including strict control of the cost of works;
(b) the efficiency and intensive competition among the local contractors for
ci"il works contracts; and (c) the explosive growth of road transport.  These
points have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project.



- 6 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Highway Network
2.1       In 1985 the public road network consisted of about 151,000 km--about
15,700 km were national roads, 29,600 km were provincial roads (Table 2.1) and
about 105,700 km were rural roads. In addition, an unspecified length of
footpaths and tracks exists. The national road system connects the principal
towns and regional centers throughout the country, The provincial road
system connects the provincial centers and other towns with the national road
system and interconnects the rural roads; it is a very extensive system and
provides the only direct access to a substantial proportion of the villages
and rural population. The rural (or tertiary) roads connect the remaining
villages and rural population with the provincial and national road systems.
The Northeast Region has the greatest length of national and provincial roads,
with a share of 28%, followed by the North with 27%, the Central Region with
26% and the South with 19% (Table 2.2). For rural roads, the approximate
regional distribution is Northeast 44X, North 22%, Central 21% and South 13%.
2.2       Since 1965, the national road system has grown little, from about
14,000 km to 15,700 km; however the proportion paved has increased from 36% to
about 96%. Meanwhile, the provincial road system has grown from about 8,300
km to 29,600 km, while the proportion paved has increased from about 5% to
541. However, this rate of improvement has barely kept pace with the
expansion of the provincial road system, and the length of unimproved provin-
cial roads has grown from about 5,500 km to 8,600 km.
2.3       The national road system is now generally well defined and almost
entirely improved and paved (Map IBRD20218). Most roads are adequately
aligned and wide enough for the present traffic, but increasing traffic on a
few sections, principally on the main routes radiating from Bangkok, is making
road width and other geometric standards inadequate. In addition road traffic
accidents have also increased (para. 2.16). A small number of additional
links may be required to complete the network and to shorten some routes.
2.4       The provincial road system has been expanding rapidly, mostly
through reclassification but also by new construction. Future expansion of
the provincial road system is likely to be much slower; it is already very
extensive. Some roads are classified as provincial chiefly for their security
functions. There is a need to upgrade the nearly 8,600 km of "unimproved"
provincial roads, virtually all of which serve as rural access roads. These
roads have not been constructed to defined engineering standards and often
lack permanent drainage structures and have little gravel surfacing; many
sections are impassable during tainy weather.
2.5       An immediate problem is the increasing length of paved older
national and provincial roads that require pavement rehabilitation and
strengthening (para. 2.37 and 3.6).
2.6       The rural road syste! is also very extensive, with an average
density of about 1 km per 5 km . The roads are of low standard, averaging



-7-
about 4.5 m width, but traffic is generally less than 30 vpd. Most of them
are unimproved or gravel roads. In the dry season about two thirds of the
roads are usually in fair condition, and one-third bad. During the rainy
season many roads become impassable. Improving rural roads to engineering
standards has been largely limited to some regional development projects,
principally in the Northeast, but more recently in parts of the Northern and
Southern regions. Low grade works have been undertaken on a large proportion
of the rural roads, chiefly through Government employment generation and
village development programs. The most urgent need is for regular
maintenance.  However, when traffic growth becomes important the roads are
reclassified as provincial roads and the responsibility for their maintenance
and improvement is transferred to DOH.
B. Road Transport
Motor Vehicle Fleet
2.7       The country's motor vehicle fleet, including motorcyles, grew from
about 740,000 units in 1970 to about 3,340,000 units in 1984 (Table 2.3).
Excluding motorcyles, the increase was from about 400,000 units to over
1,400,000 units, with an annual growth of 9.7%. Commercial vehicles--buses,
trucks and other utility vehicles -- accounted for about 58% of four-wheel
vehicles, with cars making up the remainder.
Traffic
2.8       Motorized traffic (excluding motorcyles) on all national and provin-
cial roads was in the order of 26 billion vehicle-km in 1985 (Table 2.4).
About 50% of this traffic was concentrated in the Central Region within a
radius of 150 km from Bangkok, highlighting Bangkok's leading role as the
center for Government, commerce, industry and transport. Over 90% of the non-
urban traffic (excluding motorcycles) is concentrated on the national and
provincial roads. The remainder is distributed over the rural roads. The
national and provincial roads show great variations in traffic density. About
15% of the roads, mostly consisting of national highways, accounts for about
55Z of the traffic, and about 35% of the road length accounts for about 70% of
the traffic. Some 3,000 km of national and provincial roads, whose truck
traffic volume is close to or exceeds 1,000 medium and heavy trucks a day, are
considered to be the major truck traffic corridors.
Transport Industry
2.9       The total number of trucks operating in the country is about
600,000.  Most trucking firms have only one truck managed and run by the
owner-operator. However, there are a few firms with several hundred vehicles
each. The Government-owned Express Transport Orvanization (ETO), on the
strength of its transport monopolies (para. 2.12), has about l,000 trucks.
Whenever it does not have adequate capacity, it hires privately owned trucks.
2.10      The country's bus fleet consists of about 200,000 vehicles
(Table 2.3) of which about 150,000 are light buses (vehicles with more than
seven passengers) and about 50,000 are heavy buses. The information on the



- 8 -
structure of the bus transport industry is incomplete. To fill this gap, the
Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport (Phase I) is being carried out
under the Second Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2311-TH). One company, the
government-owned Transport Company, has a franchise for exclusive bus services
in the country except for Bangkok. The franchise has about 5,500 heavy buses,
of which about 10% are owned by the Transport Company and 90% by private
companies. The Transport Cumpany charges the private firms a franchise fee in
the range of B 10,000 to B 250,000 per bus, which entitles them to operate
during a five-year period. Revenues from fee collection are used for
investments in bus terminals and stations.
Regulation
2.11      Vehicle Specifications.  The last significant amendments to
Government regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions were made in 1976
following a review by consultants as part of a Highway Maintenance Study
financed under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH). The maximum legal
axle load is 9.1 metric tons. The maximum gross weight of a three-axle
vehicle is 21.0 tons, of a semitrailer, 37.4 tons and of a truck and trailer
combination, 43.4 tons. Under the First Provincial Roads Project, the Govern-
ment undertook to review the regulations in light of completed studies on
energy policies and road user taxation and in view of the increasing problem
of truck overloading (para. 2.13). The recently completed Trucking Industry
Study financed under Loan 2035-TH is being reviewed by the Government and may
result in further adjustments in permissible axle loads (Annex 1).
2.12      Trucking Regulation.  Although the trucking industry is essentially
free of economic regulation, periodic and regular pressure is being applied
for more regulation to prevent destructive competition within the industry or
with the railway and to reduce the high percentage of empty truck hauls, which
waste fuel and other resources. Some of these initiatives are more or less
disguised attempts at preventing competitors from entering the free transport
market. However, regulatory inroads have been made by ETO, which has trucking
monopolies for: (a) transport of freight landed at Klong Toey; (b) a number
of Government specified commodities; and (c) transit traffic to and from
Laos. ETO is a frequently criticized state enterprise which has expanded over
the years, despite generally acknowledged poor performance in cost and
services. The size of ETO's work force (over 4,000 staff) has become its
Irotective shield. The only economically efficient method to dt.al with ETO is
to require that its operations be commercially and financially viable. ETO,
however, represents a small part of the trucking industry as the total tonnage
transported by ETO is about 2% of the total road freight transport demand.
2.13      Overloading of trucks is a fairly common occurrence, with
implications for road safety, maintenance and the enforcement of road traffic
laws. Truck overloading, however, is essentially limited to the major bulk
commodities, which are carried on ten-wheel trucks mainly on the major truck
corridors. There are ten peri-nanent truck weighing stations in the national
and provincial highway system. The stations are operated by DOH with the
participation of the Highway Police Division. In addition, DOH has some 35
mobile teams with portable scales. Furthermore the Trucking Industry Study
(para. 2.11) concluded that existing axle loads and gross vehicle weight
limits should be increased.



- 9 -
2.14      Intercity Bus Transport Regulation.  The Transport Company's
franchise system (para. 2.10), appears to provide good quality, low-cost, low-
fare transport. However, the system also limits the number of buses per route
and, hence, supply does not appear to adequately address passenger demand as
evidenced by illegal services provided on certain routes. The study of the
intercity bus transport industry being undertaken under the Second Provincial
Roads Project is reviewing the industry's regulatory aspects.
2.15      Road user charges for passenger cars, buses and light trucks cover
their marginal costs. Those for heavy trucks do not. For the latter, the
ratio of road user charges to marginal cost is estimated at only about 0.5-
0.7. These vehicles are primarily responsible for use-related, road pavements
damage. An upward adjustment of taxes on trucks is therefore desirable.
These and other trucking issues have been anal-zed also under the Trucking
Industry Study (Loan 2035-TH), and the Government is considering appropriate
corrective measures.
Traffic Safety
2.16      Traffic accidents and fatalities constitute a growing and recognized
socioeconomic problem in Thailand. However, accidents are neither accurately
nor completely recorded, nor have comprehensive, coordinated and effective
measures been taken to prevent them. Speeding is common (including heavy
buses), and driver behavior is often not in conformity with existing regula-
tions. Under ADB financing, the Department of Highways, commissioned a
Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Study in 1982, which was completed in
October 1984. Another study "Traffic Safety Plan for Roads in the Kingdom of
Thailand" was completed in January 1985 with the assistarce of Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA). DOH is preparing a program, based on
JICA's study recommendations, to improve highway sections with high accident
rates. Furthermore, the National Safety Council of Thailand (NSC) has been in
contact with the Swedish Road and Traffic Research Institute (VTI) to initiate
a joint effort to improve the accident data system and traffic safety research
in Thailand. The proposed project includes a component to improve road safety
(para. 4.5).
C. Highway Administration
2.17      HOC is responsible, through DOH, for the administration, planning,
constructiou, and maintenance of the national and provincial road systems.
The 73 prov.nces and municipalities, under the Ministry of Interior (MOI), are
generally responsible for the rural roads, assisted by a number of central
Government agencies, chiefly ARD and the Public Works Department (PWD), both
in MOI. Other Central Government departments and agencies build and maintain
roads for special purposes. However, DOH's highway activities cover approxi-
mately 80% of total investments in the sector, including most of the large
projects in the country. Thus, DOH's program is a key instrument for the
purpose of the proposed sector loan.



- 10 -
Department of Highway!
2.18      DOH is well-organized and well-operated and functions as a moderr
agency with considerable autonomy. DOH has an adequate organization to
perform its functions (Chart 31177). The present organization was set up in
1973, with some modifications introduced later, to give greater emphasis to
road maintenance. The Department has 15 divisions at the headquarters, 12
field divisions and 76 highway districts situated in the provinces. In
addition, the Highway Patrol Police, under the operational control of the
Police Department, is under the Department of Highways fer administrative and
budgetary purposes. Technical assistance for the department is needed only
for the introduction of special management and operational techniques.
2.19      Under the Provincial Roads Project, DOH developed the first stages
of a pavement management system to ensure that a systematic assessment of the
network's condition is carried out and that more realistic maintenance and
rehabilitation budgets are prepared (para. 2.36). A limited amount of
additional technical assistance may be needed to help improve the system in
the light of experience with its operation and to help further develop the
programming and implementation of road maintenance. Also under the Sixth
Highway Project, technical assistance was provided to DOH for the creation of
an internal hiring system for road maintenance equipment. This system is
being implemented with the help of technical assistance financed under the
Second Provincial Roads Project (para. 2.35).
2.20      MOC, through its DOH, is responsible for the classification of all
roads and road systems, for the iutitiation of legislation concerning the con-
struction, maintenance and protection of all roads and for the preparation of
programs and budgets for the development and maintenance of national and
provincial roads. HOC is also responsible for initiating and administering
legislation on the use of roads, including the licensing of commercial
vehicles.
Accounting and Auditing
2.21      DOH's accounting and financial record-keeping activities are the
responsibility of the Finance Division, which reports to the Deputy Director
General for Administration. This division is adequately staffed by experi-
enced and competent accountants. The Finance Division provides the financial
input for the budget and is responsible for monitoring and controlling the
actual expenditures against the budgetary allocations.
2.22      Expenditures are controlled at several levels.  Initially, either
DOH's resident engineer responsible for supervision or the designated
consultant must approve the contractor's invoice for physical and technical
completion and for compliance with contractual obligations. Thereafter, the
invoice must be approved by the Chief Engineer for Construction, the Finance
Division, and finally by the Director General. This disbursement system works
well and provides an excellent control mechanism.
2.23      DOH is subject to an internal as well as an external audit.  The
internal audit staff consists of about 24 accountants and financial analysts



- 11 -
responsible for both the financial and performance audits. The internal staff
reports directly to the Director General. The external audit is performed by
the Office of the Auditor General which maintains a permanent staff of five in
the offices of DOH.
D. Highway Planning and Financing
Highway Planning
2.24      The Government's five-year development plans constitute the basic
framework for the definition of highway sector objectives. The Planning
Division, within DOH, is responsible for planning DOH's development programs
and drafting its annual budget proposals for the national and provincial
roads.
2.25      The Planning Division invites proposals for improvements from DOH's
field divisions, provincial authorities and other ministries and departments.
It then undertakes a field reconnaissance of each road and collects data for a
preliminary assessment of the works required, their cost and project econo-
mics. The division then ranks the proposals in approximate order of priority
and prepares a draft development plan. For the smaller projects, particularly
those financed wholly from the Government budget, little further preparation
is undertaken, other than detailed engineering. However, for major
construction projects, detailed feasibility studies are carried out, usually
by consultants because of the limited resources available within DOH. For the
main work programs, including those financed by foreign agencies, DOH usually
employs joint ventures of foreign and local consulting firms.
2.26      Draft development plans prepared by DOH for the national and
provincial roads (and by MOI for rural roads) are reviewed by the inter-
ministerial Land Transport Coordination Committee, under the aegis of MOC, to
ensure adequate coordination and balance. The draft plans are then submitted
to NESDB, where they are further reviewed, particularly regarding the size of
the programs as a whole and their relationship to national priorities.
Finally, the plans require Cabinet approval. The road projects are included
in the development plans based on economic criteria. After approval, the
plans are periodically reviewed and revised to reflect changed priorities and
availability of funds.
Highway Financing and Road User Charges
2.27      The highway subsector is financed from (a) general budgetary
revenues and (b) foreign loans and grants. Road user taxes are not earmarked,
except for the relatively small proceeds from vehicle registration fees, which
are distributed among the Police Department and area administrations. Also,
DOH is planning to build and maintain three highways (about 420 km) through
concession to the private sector. In recent years, external funding of
investments for national and provincial roads has amounted to around 9% of
total expenditures and about 15% of road construction and improvement (Table
2.5). The Asian Development Bank, Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) and the World Bank have been the principal sources of external
financing and are expected to remain so under the sixth plan.



- 12 -
2.28      Table 2.6 shows the tax receipts from the road sector.  A 1982
report by TPU/BCEOM, "Taxation of Road Users", noted that in 1975-80,
aggregate receipts from road user charges on national and provincial roads
were close to 70l of all expenditures. One flaw in the taxation picture is
the under-coverage of infrastructure coscs caused by heavy trucks
(para. 2.15).
E. Highway Engineering and Construction
2.29      Engineering of the national and provincial roads is the responsibi-
lity of the Location and Design Division of DOH. The division undertakes a
substantial portion of such work itself; for the remaining engineering,
particularly for special projects financed under external aid, it employs
consultants. Almost all the firms engaged in detailed engineering are Thai,
since the domestic consultants have expanded in numbers and capability in
recent years. Foreign consultants, employed only to a limited extent and
chiefly on specialized studies, usually operate in joint venture with Thai
consultants and employ only a few key foreign staff.
2.30      DOHf has a range of design standards for national and provincial
roads which are appropriate to the road class, terrain and traffic volumes
(Table 2.7). It has also established design standards for rural roads,
chiefly for use by the ARD and PWD which are responsible for designs under
rural roads projects. These departments undertake most of the design work
themselves, employing consultants, chiefly Thai, as necessary.
2.31      The DOH, through its National Highways and Provincial Roads
Construction Divisions, is responsible for construction of national and
provincial roads. Provincial road construction by DOH includes the improve-
ment of existing provincial roads and of some rural roads F i be incorporated
into the provincial road system. About 90% of DOH construc-;on is by
contract. The rest is by force account, usually for trainin- purposes in the
eight centers set up with bilateral aid. Road construction by ARD and PWD is
now also predominantly by contract. Some small projects, undertaken by the
provinces, districts and groups of villages, are largely constructed by force
account with a high proportion of hand labor.
2.32      The Thai contracting industry has evolved during the past 20 years
or so from infancy to maturity. The Thai Contractors' Association (TCA),
established in 1946, had 574 members in 1985. Its members are contractors and
construction materials distributors. In 1964 DOH established a policy to
increase the volume of highway construction by contract and to reduce force
account works done by DOH itself. Many domestic firms are now fully capable
of undertaking typical highway projects. In the early Bank-financed road
projects only about a quarter of the work was won by domestic contractors and,
on some contracts, the work was only completed with difficulty, delay and in a
few cases bankruptcies. But gradually the domestic firms' share has
increased, and, under the three most recent Bank financed Projects, Thai firms
won most of the contracts in competition with foreign firms. They have per-
formed the work satisfactorily. The evolution of the domestic industry can be
attributed to the initiative of local entrepreneurs, fostered by the



- 13 -
Government's policy of using competitive bidding to award contracts for an
overwhelming proportion of its large and continuous stream of road works.
International competitive bidding (ICB) by prequalified firms is normally
reserved for contracts financed by external sources and for specialized con-
struction work. Construction supervision is usually carried out by DOH,
which, over the years, has developed an efficient system to coordinate project
execution. When consulting firms are used to supervise construction, they are
limited to overall management and assistance with special problems.
F. Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation
2.33      Maintenance of the national and provincial road systems (Table 2.1)
is the responsibility of DOH.  Maintenance of most rural roads is the respon-
sibility of the 73 provinces, in many cases with assistance from ARD, PWD and
the municipalities. Roads required primarily for the operation of irrigation
projects are maintained by the Royal Irrigation Department (RID), and some
national defense roads, mainly in the frontier areas, are maintained by the
army.
2.34      DOH maintenance activities are planned and supervised by its
Kaintenance Division and carried out by its 12 field divisions and 76 field
districts. Most of the routine maintenance operations are performed directly
by the field districts and the periodic maintenance is done by contract under
the direct supervision of the fieli divisions and districts. Large-scale
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works arr carried out by contract and
supervised by DOH headquarters.
2.35      DOW's ability to organize and perform road maintenance has greatly
improved over the last ten years. A highway maintenance study carried out in
1976 under the Fifth Highway Project established the framework for the
maintenance of national and provincial roads. Under the Sixth Highway
Project, technical assistance was provided in 1978-81 to help DOH set up an
internal hiring system ("Revolving Fund") for the maintenance equipment; the
system's goals are to improve the efficiency of equipment management and
utilization and to provide for the prompt supply of spare parts and for
funding the regular replacement of worn-out equipment. Implementation of the
fund had to wait until the required legal., administrative and financial
procedures were clarified and effected. rhis took longer than expected, so
the effective operation of the fund did not begin until October 1, 0983; even
now it is only partially implemented. Technical assistance provided under the
Second Provincial Roads Project is helping DOH update and further implement
the fund's operation.
2.36      During 1984 and 1985, DOH assisted by consultar.s, developed a
Thailand Pavement Management System (TPMS) to enable its Maintenance Division
in assigning priorities for maintenance expenditure on the paved roads under
its control. The TPMS was tested on approximately 500 km of paved roads in
the Ayutthaya district and recommendations were made on the further
development and extension of the system throughout Thailand (para. 2.19).
However, DOH is facing several technical and organizational problems with the
nationwide implementation of the TPMS. The action program presented in Annex
1 includes details to ensure implementation of the TPMS throughout Thailand.



- 14 -
2.37      The national and provincial paved network is in a reasonably
serviceable condition. However, an important part of the system is
approaching the end of its design life and is increasingly in need of major
repairs and rehabilitation. This network system was largely built in the
sixties and seventies. By 1981, the end of the Fourth Development Plan, some
24,715 km, or 79% of the present paved network, were completed. However, not
only have traffic volumes often grown more rapidly than anticipated in the
design stage, traffic loadings have also been much heavier. Also, in the
past, expenditure on road maintenance and capitat. renewal has often been below
the levels needed in order to prevent a general deterioration of the road
network. In early 1986, 50% of the paved network was rated good, 34% fair and
16% poor. The condition of the paved network is even more acute on the major
truck corridors (some 3,000 km); a survey done in 1986 rated 37% as good, 50%
fair and 13% in poor condition. The impo:tance of greater attention to
highway rehabilitation and maintenance and of systematic monitoring and
evaluation of the road system is now recognized by the government agencies
(paras 1.13 and 3.8).
2.38      DOH's road maint  ance expenditures increased from about B 396
million (US$19.4 million) -  per year in the third plan to B 783 million
(US$38.4 million) per year in the fourth plan. The amounts were, however,
inadequate for the growing road system and rapidly increasing traffic
volumes. Expenditures rose to about B 1,959 million (US$79.6 million) per
year during the fifth development plan. Since 1985 the maintenance budget has
covered the estimated requirements (Table 2.8). Maintenance expenditures
foreseen during the Sixth Plan amount to about B 2,959 million (US$113.8
million) per year. This corresponds to about B 77,717 per km-year (US$2,989)
which would be adequate provided the backlog of rehabilitation and pavement
overlay is attended to.
2.39      Although the condition surveys for DOH's roads show that much of the
network is in fair to good condition (para. 2.37), many of those in fair
condition actually need asphaltic overlays and sealing works. Otherwise the
majority of roads in fair condition will deteriorate into poor condition over
the next frw years and their subsequent rehabilitation would eventually
require a multiple of the present repair cost. Expenditures for these
purposes under the Fifth Plan amounted to about B 5,295 million (US$215 mil-
lion), about 30% of the development expenditures. Under the sixth plan it is
expected that about B 11,145 million (US$428.6 million) or about 43% of the
developed budget would be allocated for rehabilitation and reconstruction
purposes. In order to select the best maintenance and rehabilitation policy
for a given level of funds and to evaluate their impact on the network
condition, DOH evaluated several policy scenarios. The results of this
evaluation are presented in Table 2.9, which shows the estimated budgetary
allocations, physical targets and policies for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation in the 1987-1991 period as well as their long-term impact in
the network condition. These estimates were reviewed and agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 3.15).
1/   The following exchange rates have been used for US$l:B 20.40 before 1981;
B 24.62 for 1982-86 and B 26.0 for 1987 and after.



- 15 -
C. Staff and Training
2.40      DOH's staff of about 6,400 officers, including about 1,100 profes-
sional staff, is adequate to carry out its functions. Most of the profes-
sional personnel are experienced and capable. There are some 650 engineers,
the rest are lawyers, economists, accountants and administrators. DOH's
employees are civil servants and their remuneration is subject to the
Government salary scale.
2.41      Although DOH has managed so far to maintain the quality of its
technical staff, there ip a need for a more systematic approach to training.
Indeed DOH has long recognized the importance of developing its human
resources; it has been sending its professionals and officers abroad to study,
to receive training, and to participate in meetings, seminars and conferences.
The Training Division was established in 1963 to organize both pre-service and
in-service training programs. However, this division is mainly an administra-
tive unit primarily performing a coordinating function. Besides occasional
training sessions given by instructors from local universities, the division
has not done much innovation in planning, programing and monitoriuig of
training. In addition, since DOH's work emphasis has shifted toward highway
maintenance and rehabilitation, traffic management and safety, with the
frequent rotation of personnel a systematic approach to training and
strengthening the Training Division are required. DOH has started to take
some steps in this direction (paras. 3.14 and 4.6).



- 16 -
III. DOH's 1987-1991 PROGRAM
A. General
3.1       Over the past several years, MOC's management of the transport
sector has improved through the establishment of the Transport Planning Unit
(in 1974) and the gradual implementation of a management information system,
intended to provide up-to-date and reliable transport statistics. The most
important developments in the highway subsector have been the growing
awareness of the need to rehabilitate and maintain the existing network.
3.2       DOH's expected five-year expenditure program (Table 3.1), which is
the basis for the proposed sector loan, strikes a proper balance between
maintenance and rehabilitation on the one hand and paving and new construction
on the other, while taking into consideration available financial resources.
The program also provides adequate flexibility for adjusting annual targets in
line with changes in fiscal and economic conditions.
3.3       The proposed sector loan is based on:
(a)  DOH's highway program covering the period 1987-1991, subject to
annual updating;
(b) criteria, procedures and related organizational arrangements for
selection, engineering and implementation of individual subprojects
included in DOH's program; and
(c) appropriate measures to address selected sectoral issues concerning
sectoral planning, road transport services and highway
administration.
B. Program Components and Description
3.4       DOH's estimated feasible expenditure levels from 1987 through 1991
are central to defining the framework of the proposed sector loan. Thus,
evaluation of DOH's estimated highway budget (Table 3.1) for 1987-1991 has
been the focal point of loan appraisal. The depth and significance of these
estimates lie in the fact that they are recognized as realistic, given DOH's
previous work programs implementation, the Bureau of the Budget's current
outlook on public revenues, NESDB's assessment of priorities among and within
the sectors, MOF's current prospects for external borrowing, and MOC's views
on previous and projected funding allocations. These estimates may actually
be of more value than usual highway plans, which tend to be a reflection of
perceived needs rather than of fiscal capability. In that sense the 1987-91
budget estimates provide an adequate framework to assess the physical targets
of the sector and to project the financing requirements. The initial 1987-91
estimates presented below were confirmed during negotiations and will be
reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank (paras. 3.15 and 4.23).



- 17 -
3.5       The table below summarizes the expected highway expenditures
budgeted by DOH for 1987 and estimated for 1988-91. A more detailed breakdown
is given in Table 3.1.
ESTIMATE OF DOH'S HIGHWAY BUDGETS
(Millions of current Baht)
1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1987-91
(budgeted)                                             Total      x
Road development plan    4,056.0   4,601.3  5,295.5   6,227.7   5,784.3   25,964.8    46
Highway maintenance        2,522.0   2,723.8  2,941.7   3,177.0   3,431.2   14,795.7    26
Security and nonpro-
grammed roads            1,352.8   1,200.0  1,200.0   1,200.0   1,200.0    6,152.8    11
Administration             1,809.0   2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0    9,809.0    17
Total               9,739.8  10,525.1 11,437.2  12,604.7  12,415.5   56,722.3   100
Overview
3.6       DOH's total highway expenditures during the period of the last three
national development programs (1971-1986) decreased slightly at about 0.8X per
year in real terms. Maintenance expenditures, however, increased during the
same period at an average rate of 4.8% per year in real terms. Most of this
increase occurred during the fifth plan when expenditures for maintenance
increased at about 14% per year in real terms. For the 1987-91 period, the
growth rate for highway expenditures is expected Lo be approximately 3.1% per
year in real terms; maintenance expenditures are expected to grow at about
6.9% per year. The paved highway network of approximately 31,000 km carries
the bulk of the traffic, which has been growing in excess of 9% per year
(para. 2.7). In 1986, an estimated 7,300 km of the road system had vehicle
flows in excess of 4,000 vehicles per day. Furthermore, on some sections
traffic is approaching congestion levels. DOH responded to the traffic demand
by paving about 19,800 km between 1971 and 1985, bringing the total from
11,500 km to the current 31,300 km. The age structure of the paved network is
as follows:



- 18 -
Age                      km        X
More than 20 years             5,451      17.4
10 to 20 years                 9,785      31.3
Less than 10 years            16,020      51.3
Total                  31,256    100.0
3.7       Given the age structure, pavement condition (para. 2.37) and traffic
volumes on the network, the bulk of future DOH expenditures will be determined
by maintenance, rehabilitation and capacity expansion along existing routes
rather than by construction of new routes. The expected 1987-91 highway
program reflects these realities and continues the shift towards maintenance
and rehabilitation started in the fifth plan.
Highway Maintenance
3.8       As mentioned in paragraphs 2.38 and 2.39 maintenance expenditures
grew steadily in absolute terms and as a share of DOH's expenditures during
the fifth plan and, since 1985, have covered the estimated requirements. The
projected level of maintenance expenditures increases from B 2.5 billion in
1987 to B 3.4 billion in 1991, representing about 26% of DOH's budget. The
proposed level of maintenance should be adequate considering that the sixth plan
also allocates B 11.1 billion or 43% to rehabilitation and reconstruction.
According to these projections, the rehabilitation work-load should start to
decrease from about 1,300 km per year during the sixth plan to about 800 km/year
in the seventh plan. Furthermore pavement management and equipment revolving
fund systems have been developed (paras. 2.35 and 2.36) and their countrywide
implementation would be undertaken gradually and in accordance with an action
plan (para. 3.14).
Road Development Plan
3.9       The road development plan, together with the national security and
non-programmed roads, represent DOH's capital expenditures. The plan gives
priority to works already committed, which accouit for a substantial portion
of the first two years of plan implementation. It embodies a balanced highway
policy recognizing the relative priority of its main components in the order
summarized below.



- 19 -
Summary of DOH's Development Plan, 1987-1991
(Current Baht million)
1987                      Year                   Total
budgeted      1988      1989      1990    1991   1987-1981
Rehabilitation and reconstruction       1,773.1   1872.6   2,269.3  2,679.8  2,550.0  11,144.8
Improvement of congested roads            533.3    807.6   1,241.2  1,711.4  1,494.0   5,787.5
Safety program                               0      110.0      140.0    170.0    199.0       619.0
Interchanges and bridges                   77.3    257.6      233.3    120.0    120.0        808.2
New road construction                     195.4    267.3      304.8    268.5    185.3   1,221.3
Upgrading to bitumen standard           1,476.9  1,286.2   1,107.0  1,278.0  1,236.0   6,384.1
Total                               4,056.0  4,601.3   5,295.6  6,227.7  5,784.3  25,964.9 i
3.10      DOH envisions the followings  rehabilitation, strengthening of some
6,800 km of paved roads (some of which would be done under the maintenance
program); improvement through construction of additional lanes (about 410 km
of congested roads); a safety program through improving conditions in about
400 hazardous road sections; construction of interchanges and major bridges in
about 11 locations; construction of some 350 km of new road links; and
upgrading 3,200 km of gravel roads to bitumen standard, The physical targets
to be achieved are consistent with resource projection and implementation
capacity.
Administration
3.11      Over the years, the administrative costs of running DOH have
stabilized at about 17% to 19% of the total DOH road budget. These costs
include expenditures for right-of-way acquisition and for the highway patrol
and they reflect the design and supervision capacities of DOH. The share of
this item is expected to remain at about 17% of the total budget during the
sixth period. This car. be considered a normal and adequate level compared
with that of highway agencies in other countries.
C. Financing
3.12      Government budgetary allocations make up about 90% of DOH's
investments and recurrent budget requirements.  The remaining funds required
would be obtained from forEign financing, including the Bank and would be



- 20 -
applied mainly to capital expenditures under the development plan. The table
below summarizes the expected financing sources for the development plan
during 1987-91.
Baht million US$ million
Government Sources                                    19,766.5          760.2
World Bank Highway Sector Loan                         1,300.0           50.0
World Bank ongoing and proposed future loan            2,316.6           89.1
Other foreign sources ongoing and proposed loans       2,581.8           99.3
Total                                         25,964.9          998.6
The proposed project is the first of two financing operations that the
Government is seeking from the Bank to help finance its highway sector
program. A second highway sector loan for about US$50 million would be
proposed in FY90.
3.13      Should DOH, in the future, have to meet the national highway
requirements with less budgetary resources than those presently envisioned,
reduction in the overall size of the program would first be effected by
reducing the new construction and paving components through postponement or
scaling down of subprojects. To ensure the program's continued relevance and
adequacy, agreements were reached, at negotiations, on (i) the financing plan
of the program; (ii) an annual review of program implementation; and (iii) the
priority to expenditures on maintenance and rehabilitation over new
construction of roads.
D. Institutional Improvements
3.14      To ensure smooth execution of the program and efficient management
of the sector, specific action programs have been developed by the agencies
concerned and are included in Annex 1. The action programs refer to specific
measures required to: i) implement the pavement management system nationwide;
ii) complete implementation nationwide of DOH's equipment revolving fund
system; iii) strengthen DOH's training system; and iv) control truck overload-
ing and improve road safety. During negotiations Government confirmed its
agreement to implement the above mentioned action programs.
3.15      To operationalize the five year program the Government confirmed, at
the time of negotiations, the following items:
(a)  the level and composition of the 1987-1991 program, including the
balance of expenditures between construction of new roads and
upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads;
(b)  a financing plan with annual requirements from all sources of
financing;



- 21 -
(c) an assessment of expenditures likely to be incurred by DOH in
carrying out its highway program in the 1987-1991 period and
including the maintenance expenditures likely to be funded;
(d) an annual review of program implementation and its financing to
ensure its continued relevance and adequacy. This review would
include the amount of actual budgetary outlays compared with initial
expectations; and
(e) selection of the road works to be included in the investment program
in accordance with economic and technical criteria agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.29).
E. Assessment and Impact on Sector Policies
3.16      The main objective of DOH during 1987-91 is to pursue and increase
ongoing efforts to (a) improve road maintenance efficiency; (b) continue the
rehabilitation program; (c) upgrade planning and programming of pavement
strengthening and resealing; (d) undertake selected road improvements; and
(e) reduce road traffic hazards. DOH's program presents a proper balance
among its components, focusing on maintenance and rehabilitation. The assump-
tions on which the financial plan is based are reasonable and consistent with
established policies and with current and projected available resources and
could even be increased in the later years if the Government were to increase
contributions from local or foreign sources.
3.17      DOH's program also supports efforts to:  (a) consolidate recent
advances in highway planning and engineering; (b) improve DOH's management
informetion system and computerization of technical and financial records; and
(c) improve road traffic safety.
3.18      As indicated in Chapter II, DOH is a mature institution capable of
planning, programming and executing road programs and it has the capacity to
carry out the functions of the executive agency for the program. The proposed
loan would continue the Bank's support for DOH's programs and policies.
3.19      Within the transport sector, the proposed loan would also include
studies and measures to: (a) create a monitoring and evaluation capacity for
transport projects within MOC; and (b) complete the remaining modules of the
transport data system.



- 22 -
IV. BANK PARTICIPATION
A. General
4.1       The proposed project is a logical continuation of the Bank's
involvement in the sector. It will support the Government's policy, as enun-
ciated in the Sixth Development Plan, of emphasis on improving maintenance and
rehabilitation of the road network and thus help the Government in sustaining
a relatively efficient road transport system. It would assist the Government
in: (a) protecting past investments in the highway sector by concentrating on
rehabilitation and strengthening of paved highways and improving the mainte-
nance system; (b) reducing road transport costs and improving the reliability
of services in the national and provincial roads system; and (c) improving
road traffic safety.
4.2       The loan would finance components of DOH's 1987-91 road development
plan and periodic maintenance program; any subproject under these programs
would be a potential candidate for Bank financing. Specific subprojects to be
financed under the loan would be identified annually on the basis of agreed
upon criteria and procedures for selection and implementation. In March 1987,
DOH submitted to the Bank, for review, preliminary feasibility studies for
about 460 km of provincial roads and 280 km of highway rehabilitation works to
be started in 1988, the first year of implementation of the proposed project
(Tables 4.1 and 4.2). In addition, DOH plans to improve 128 hazardous road
locations during 1988. Preliminary assessment indicates that the proposed
subprojects would be eligible for Bank financing under the proposed loan.
Engineering designs for these roads are substantially completed. The road
safety program and other project components, including the training program,
testing equipment, and consultants' services, have been fully defined (paras.
4.5 through 4.8).
4.3       Total capital expenditures for DOH's sixth plan during the 1987-91
period, are estimated at about B 25.9 billion or US$998.6 million (para. 3.9).
Table 4.3 presents a tentative initial allocation of the US$50 million Bank
loan as envisioned by DOH, although funds could be shifted from one category
to another depending on actual year-to-year needs. The initial allocation of
loan proceeds was reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations.
4.4       Major components of DOH's program including the rehabilitation,
maintenance and paving programs, are defined in terms of annual expenditures
and physical targets (Chapter III). Other components, including road safety,
the training program, testing equipment, and consultant services, are briefly
described below.
4.5       Road Safety.  The road safety component would include:
(a)  civil works to improve safety conditions in the highway network
including improvements in road surface and geometry and provision of
adequate traffic signs and street lighting, guard rails, bicycle
lanes and pedestrian bridges. These improvements are based on a
master list of hazardous road sections prepared from a combination



- 23 -
of accident statistics developed by DOH with the cooperation of JICA
and proposals by the district engineers (para. 2.16). The master
list seems reasonable given the doubts about the reliability of the
available accident data. The sixth plan allocates some B 619 mil-
lion for the road safety program. For 1988 DOH plans to improve
about 128 hazardous locations at a total cost of about B 110 million
(Table 4.4)0 Details of implementation including design and bidding
packages are substantially completed;
(b) equipment to assist the highway patrol to control the behavior of
drivers; and
(c) technical assistance, including a training program, to improve the
accident data system, research and evaluation methods. This
technical assistance would be provided by the Swedish Road and
Traffic Research Institute and would last for about two years (para.
2.16). The estimated cost of this technical assistance is about
US$300,000, which would be financed by the Swedish foreign aid
agency (BITS) on a grant basis (Table 4.5). The above arrangements
were agreed during negotiations.
4.6       Training Program.  DOH is undertaking a more systematic approach to
training its personnelt including strengthening the Training Division's
organization and management and has prepared a three-year program (1988-90)
for training of its staff. Details of the training program (Table 4.6), which
emphasizes the training of trainers and focuses on road maintenance and
management activities, are given in the "Evaluation/Preparation of DOH's
Training Activities" report prepared in April 1987 by a training specialist
financed by the Bank. To support these efforts the project would provide
about US$2 million for: (i) improvement of training facilities including
construction of a training center; (ii) purchase of training equipment,
furniture and materials; and (iii) provision of a training specialist and
instructors. Table 4.7 shows the tentative cost of the three-year training
program. In addition DOH's Training Division prepared an action program to
strengthen its operations (Annex 1).
4.7       Testing Equipment.  DOH requires additional equipment for its
Materials and Research Division, chiefly for the field inspection and testing
of pavement strength and roughness that is required to establish total need
and priorities of works for each year's program of maintenance, rehabilitation
and strengthening of pavements. This equipment will be provided under the
project.
4.8       Consultant Services.  About 210 man-months of consultant's services
are included in the project to assist DOH, LTD, and MOC's Transport Planning
Unit (Table 4.8). These services would include assistance to DOH's highway
supervision teams and possibly help with the implementation of the TPMS. They
also will include assistance with the second phase of the Intercity and Rural
Bus Transport Study; the revision and improvement of the transport management
system developed within MOC; and the development of project post-evaluation
capability in the Ministry. Terms of reference for the required services have
been drafted by DOH, LTD and MOC with Bank assistance. As in past projects,



- 24 -
consultants would provide the required services with a mix of local (about 120
man-months) and expatriate personnel (about 90 man-months). Consultants will
be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.18) and
Government's assurance to this effect was confirmed at negotiations. Also, at
negotiations the detailed terms of reference and schedule for hiring of
consultants were reviewed and agreed.
4.9       Cost Estimates.  The foreign exchange component of the civil works
has been estimated at about 50%. It assumes that the works would be carried
out mostly by local contractors, as has been the case in the most recent Bank
highway projects in Thailand, and includes the cost of gasoline, diesel and
fuel oil for which Thailand is a net importer. Construction costs were
estimated on the basis of quantities and unit prices derived from the recently
completed contracts under the Second Provincial Roads Project. The foreign
exchange component for consultants' services is estimated at about 30% for
studies, engineering and supervision and 80% for technical assistance.
R. Subprojects Eligible for Bank Financing
4.10      The proposed Bank loan would finance subprojects related to:
(a) civil works of eligible subprojects contracted after September 30,
1987;
(b) purchase of laboratory testing equipment and equipment related to
the safety and training components and for the Auditor General's
office; and
(c)  studies and technical assistance in support of sectoral objectives.
All contracts for road rehabililation, strengthening, improvement and paving,
accepted for disbursement under the loan would be committed before October
1, 1989, and have an initial completion date no later than December 31, 1990.
4.11      For each subproject DOH will prepare an evaluation sheet on which
the key technical, design, cost, economic and tentative tender information is
summarized. The Bank missions will review these data and confirm eligibility
to DOH. Rejected subprojects may be resubmitted for consideration if
conditions change. Eligibility means that the Bank will help finance
contracts related to the subproject, provided counterpart funds are allocated
and the tendering is according to agreed-upon procedures and agreed-upon
design standards.
4.12      Before committing funds for a subproject, the Bank would require the
following:
(a) for subprojects related to rehabilitation, strengthening and over-
Lays of paved roads and improvement and paving of provincial roads:
(i) at the preliminary stage, a basic data sheet for each subproject
substantially similar to the sample included in Annex 2; and (ii) at
the final stage, upon completion of detailed engineering, an updated
basic data sheet if changed during the design phase of the
subproject and the schedule of execution showing the sequence of
tet:dering and construction.



- 25 -
(b)  for safety and training civil works, a description of the works,
their estimated value and the schedule of execution;
(c) for purchase of equipment for road safety, testing of materials and
pavements, and training, the list, type and estimated value of the
equipment and schedule of execution; and
(d) for studies and technical assistance, detailed terms of reference,
manpower requirements, cost estimates and the execution schedule.
4.13      Except as the Bank would otherwise agree, any Bank-financed subpro-
ject related to rehabilitation, strengthening and overlays of paved roads, and
improvement and paving of provincial roads should be evaluated and selected
following a methodology satisfactory to the Bank. Such subprojects should
have an economic rate of return of at least 12X, calculated in accordance with
a method satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.29). Agreements on the above
procedures related to eligibility were confirmed during negotiations.
C. Conditions and Procedures for Procurement of Bank-Financed Subprojects
4.14      The bulk of civil works for highway rehabilitation, strengthening,
and for improvement and paving of provincial roads eligible for financing
under the loan, totalling about US$74.2 million, would be carried out through
contracts awarded on the basis of ICB by prequalified firms in accordance with
the Bank guidelines for procurement (Table 4.9).
4.15      The Bank would conduct a prior review of the standard civil works
bidding documents to ensure that a satisfactory pracurement process will be
followed. Thereafter, a US$2.5 million threshold for prior review would be
applied, resulting in a coverage of about 50X of the contracts. Bidders would
be allowed to bid for separate contracts or for groups of them, depending on
the value of works for which they are prequalified. For Thai contractors, the
existing system of prequalification now in use under the Second Provincial
Roads Prcject would be continued. For potential foreign contractors,
invitations to prequalify will be sent annually to embassies and published in
Development Business. The Bank will receive for its review the list of
prequalified contractors and of those refused prequalification, if any, and
the reasons therefor.
4.16      Periodic maintenance works, including asphalt overlays, totalling
about US$4 million, and civil works for road safety and training of DOH's
staff (estimated at about US$12.4 million) would be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders are
not expected to be interested in these works because the contract values are
small and scattered geographically.
4.17      Specialized equipment for the road safety program and for testing of
engineering materials and pavement and auditing (estimated at a total cost of
US$1.2 million) would be purchased through international and local shopping
involving at least three quotations obtained from foreign or local
suppliers. Equipment and furniture for training and for auditing (estimated
at about US$1.0 million) would be procured under local competitive procedures
acceptable to the Bank.



- 26 -
4.18      Consultant services for coordi.nating the supervision of highway
works and for technical assistance (para. 4.8), estimated at about US$1.9 mil-
lion, would be contracted in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
4.19      Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$2.5 million or less would be subject to random post review by the Bank
after contract award. This is considered sufficient since the bidding
documents are standard for all road works. With respect to these contracts,
DOH will without Bank involvement:
(a) advertise the bidding of the works;
(b) prepare bidding documents;
(c) prepare coWt estimates;
(d)  prepare a list of prequalified foreign and local contractors;
(e) issue bid invitations to prequalified contractors;
(f) open bids;
(g) prepare bid evaluations;
(h) award contracts; and
(i) sign contracts and issue notices to proceed.
4.20      In the case of goods and equipment for the road safety program, for
testing of engineering materials, and for training and auditing, the Bank
would do a prior review of the list, including the type and estimated value of
the equipment and the schedule of execution. The Bank also would do a prior
review of bidding documents for equipment or goods estimated to cost
US$300,000 equivalent or more.
4.21      After contracts eligible for Bank financing has been signed, DOH
will send to the Bank:
(a) an updated evaluation sheet for subprojects related to
rehabilitation, strengthening, and overlays;
(b) the tender evaluation report showing award to the lowest evaluated
bidder; and
(c) the signed contract.
The Bank would have the right to reject the financing of any contract for
which agreed-upon bidding procedures have not been followed.



- 27 -
D. Monitoring and Auditing
4.22      MOC will be responsible for implementing the project, through its
DOH, as for previous highway projects. The bulk of the administration of the
contracts under the proposed loan would be the responsibility of DOH which
would keep records of all bids, documents and official decisions on each
eligible subproject showing total expenditures to date, monthly payments and
administrative data and prepare quarterly reports with this information.
Also, DOH would prepare within six months after completion of the project a
project completion report on the execution and initial operation of the
project. The Bank would reserve the right to itnspect and review the
documentation maintained by DOH and to be sent detailed information.
4.23      The annual consultations on DOH's highway program and the budget
would provide the major opportunity for reviewing progress of DOH's 1987-91
program (Chapter III) and implementation of the loan. Monitoring and
supervision of the proposed sector loan would focus on:
(a) the evolution of DOH's 1987-91 program. Tables 2.9, 3.1 and 3.2
give the targets in financial and physical terms for the tentative
highway investment and maintenance program. Progress will be
measured against these targets;
(b) the progress made in pursuing the institutional and sectorat
objectives of the loan, to be reviewed on the basis of the action
programs presented in Annex 1;
(c) the implementation of eligible subprojects to be reviewed on the
basis of the summary data sheets and quarterly reports (para 4.22);
and
(d) th. progress in commitments and disbursements of loan funds to be
assessed on the basis of the summary of expenditures and physical
progress of all eligible subprojects.
4.24      Although in the past DOH has kept detailed accounts of Bank pro-
jects, compliance with the audit requirement has not been timely. The
Government is aware of this problem and is attempting to expedite future audit
reports. At negotiations, it was agreed that (a) DOH will keep separate
accounts for the proposed project; (b) the project accounts, including
documentation Lor the statements of expenditures (SOEs) (para. 4.26), will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (c) DOH will report on
the level of investment and recurrent expenditures and any variances between
the expected program level and the amount actually budgeted; and (d) that the
detailed audit report will be submitted to the Bank within six months after
the end of each fiscal year. The project provides equipment for the
enhancement of the auditing capabilities of the Auditr General's office which
would audit the project. In addition, DOH will prepare and furnish to the
Bank, within six months after completion of the project, a completion report
on the execution and initial operation of the project.



- 28 -
E. Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements from the loan will be made against applications based
on contracts for subprojects eligible for the Bank financing, as follows:
(a) Civil Works. 50% of the expenditures for construction/improvement,
and rehabilitation/strengthening and overlays of roads; 95% of the
expenditures for construction/improvement of training facilities;
(b) Goods and Equipment. 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally; and
(c) Services. 100% of the total cost of consultants' services.
4.26      Expenditures for civil works for asphalt overlays to be contracted
by the districts, for works on hazardous locations and for improvement/
construction of training facilities are likely to involve many small contracts
costing less than US$300,000. They would be reimbursed on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure. Supporting documents would be retained by DOH for
inspection by Bank staff during project supervision.
4.27      To facilitate disbursements the project would use the Government's
established internal revolving funds system which enables the Controllers
General Department to advance funds from its own resources to line agencies
for expenditures in both local and foreign currencies. When project
expenditures under the internal revolving fund reach $20,000, the Controllers
General Department will batch the withdrawal applications and submit these to
the Bank for reimbursement.
4.28      A schedule of estimated disbursements (Table 4.10) has been prepared
on the basis of a tentative implementation schedule prepared by DOH
considering additional Bank financing in 1990. The projected disbursement
profile, for the proposed Bank participation in the program,is broadly in
overall agreement with the regional subsector profiles and in line with
current performance under the Second Provincial Roads Project. It is expected
that loan disbursements will be completed in about three years and that the
final tail of the regional profile would be eliminated because bidding
documents are standard and the review and approval of contracts has been
streamlined to reduce delays.
F. Economic Justification
4.29      DOH's policy is to use economic feasibility as the main criterion
for selecting subprojects for its development plan. The components of DOH's
development plan that lend themselves to straight-forward economic analysis,
i.e., new construction, rehabilitation and paving, make up 73% of the plan.
The cost estimates will be based on detailed engineering, and the benefits,
depending on the specific 3ubproject being analyzed, will consist of savings
in vehicle operating costs, mainLenance cost savings, and diverted or gene-
rated traffic benefits, whenever applicable. Time savings are not included in
the base case but would be provided as additional information. The vehicle
operating cost savings are based on the terrain in which a particular



- 29 -
subproject is located and on the traffic composition and growth. The latter
is established by a countrywide system of traffic counting stations supple-
mented by specific traffic counts, if required. DOH maintains periodically
updated vehicle operating cost tables. The minimum economic return for
subprojects to be included in the plan is established at 12%, equal to the
opportunity cost of capital in Thailand. The broad geographic distribution of
subprojects ensures that the benefits of road improvements would be widely
distributed. The roads already inciuded in the 1988 program (Tables 4.1 and
4.2) have an economic return in the 14 to 45% range. DOH plans to select and
evaluate all future roads for construction, rehabilitation and paving in
accordance with the methodology being used in developing the 1988 program.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the methodology will not be
changed without consultation with the Bank and that no road work is
implemented for which the economic return is less than 12%.
4.30      Road maintenance constitutes 26% of the program and ensures that the
roads will be kept at the standards for which they were designed. The road
maintenance costs have been included in the economic evaluation of
subprojects. Experience from similar programs in other parts of the world
suggests that coordinated measures to increase the efficiency of maintenance
operations have a high return.
4.31      The economic assessment of the other project components, i.e. road
safety, training and special components, is more complex and, by necessity, of
a qualitative rather than a quantitative nature. The road safety component
draws on experience from other countries and is expected to achieve, as its
principal benefit. a reduction in traffic accidents and fatalities. The
training component is expected to lead to higher efficiency in DOH's
operations, but the benefit cannot be quantified.
G. Assessment of Risk
4.32      DOH's budget estimates for its 1987-91 program have been carefully
reviewed and are reasonable considering, on the one hand, the financial
resources available for the subsector and, on the other hand, the capacity of
DOH and the construction industry. The amount of the loan has been set
prudently below the potential disbursement basis. There is no serious risk of
DOH's program being insufficient to commit and disburse the loan as scheduled.
The wide range of subprojects available and the flexibility afforded in the
commitment of loan funds should result in a smooth implementation of the
project. Road works to be implemented during the program mostly follow the
alignments of existing roads, minimizing property disturbances and land
acquisition for right-of-way. In addition, road safety would be improved by
the implementation of specific measures.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations, the following matters were reviewed
and agreed:
(a) the initial 1987-91 DOH highway budget estimates including highway
maintenance (paras. 2.39, 3.4, 3.15); and the financing plan
(paras. 3.13, 3.15);
(b) an annual review of DOH's program implementation and its financing
(paras. 3.13, 3.15);
(c) the priority to expenditures on maintenance and rehabilitation over
new road construction (para. 3.13);
(d) the implementation of action programs related to the pavement
management system, equipment revolving fund, training, and control
of truck overloading and safety (para. 3.14);
(e) the arrangements for possible technical assistance from the Swedish
Road and Traffic Research Institute and its financing by BITS (para.
4.S(c));
(f) the terms of reference, procedures and schedule for hiring of
consultants (paras. 4.8 and 4.18).
5.2       Also, during negotiations the following matters were confirmed:
(a) the engineering and implementation arrangements for the first-year
subprojects (para. 4.2);
(b)  the initial allocation of loan proceeds (para. 4.3);
(c) procedures related to eligibility of subprojects (paras. 4.10
through 4.13); and
(d) the selection criteria for the road works to be included in the
investment program (para. 4.29);
5.3       Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent, for a period of 17 years including a
grace period of 4 years, at standard variable rate. The borrower will be the
Kingdom of Thailand.



- 31~                            Table 1.1
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Passenger aud Freight Transport by Mode, 1981
(Mill1ions)
Tons      Ton-km       Passengers /a      Passenger-km /a
Road                   157.0      22,000.0         2,200.0            88,000.0
Rail                     6.1       2,732.0            78.8             9,483.0
Inland waterways         5.4       1,200.0              -                   -
Coastal shipping          3.0      1,800.0              -                   -
Domestic aviation         -             1.0            0.8               295.0
Total           171.5      27,733.0         2,279.6            97,778.0
/a Excludes Bangkok Metropolitan Transit Authority (BMTA) (1,390 million
passengers and 8.3 million passenger-km) and SRT ordinary commuter traffic
(6 million passengers and 250 million passenger-km).
Source: SRT, DECONS, TPU, KAMPSAXo



-32-                              Table 1.2
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Government Five-Year Plan Investments In Transport - Summary /a
(Million bah_)
Third plan Fourth plan Fifth plan Sixth plan
Mode                             1972-76 /b  1977-81 /b   1982-86 /b  1987-91 /c
Roads
National                          8,381       16,225        9,470       270688
Provincial                        6,655    1               10,616    }
Rural                             1,231        6,065        5,274        5,829
Subtotal                  16,267       22,290        25,360      33,517
Railway                             1,933        3,945        14,707      12,560
Inland waterways and ports            895        1,920        13,298'     17,714
Civil aviation                        816        1,425        18,722      15,477
Total                      19,911      29,580        72,087       79,268
Transport as percentage of
development expenditures             20           12            13           12
/a In current prices.
/b Commitments.
Jc Current tentative plan figures.
Source: National Economic and Social Development Board and Department of
Highways.
March 1987



THAILAND
HIGHWAY SeCTOR PROJECT
National And Provincial Htghway Networks (1965-85)
(Kilometers)
Conces-               National Highways                                Provtncial highways
sion                                   Unist-                                           Unit-                    Total highways           Total
high-      Opened to traffic /a       proved                Opened to traffic /a       proved                 Opened to traffic /a      unimproved  Grand
ways     Paved    Gravel      Total     /b      Total      Paved     Gravel    Total      /b      Total     Paved      Gravel    Totel  highways /b Total
1965    Is     5,046     4,436      9,482    4,600   14,082        405     2.389     2,794    5,475    8,269      5,451      6,825    12,276    10,075   22.351
1966    15     5,008     4,490     9,498    4,610   14,108        427      2,569     2,996    5,434    8,430      5,435      7,059    12,494    10,044   22,538
1967    15     5,507     4,011      9,518    4,632   14,150        581     3,311     3,892    7.958   11,850      6,088      7,322    13,410    12,i9O   26.n00
1968    15     6,613     3.131      9,744    4,566   14,312      1,131     4,078     5,209    8,472   13,681      7,744      7,209    14.953    13,040   27.993
1969    15     7,822    ,2,146     9,968    4,504   14.472       1,281     4,448     5,729    9,796   15,525      9,103      6,594    15,697    14,300   29,997
1970    15     8,620     1,781    10,401    4,284   14,685       1,479     4,413     5,892   11,426   17,318    10,099       6,194    16.293    15,710   32,003
1971    15    9,681      1,296    10,977    2,727   13,704       1,781     4,437     6,218   13,379   19,597    11,462       5,641    17,195    16,106   33.301
1972    15    10,493     1,014    11,507    2,815   14,322       2,288     3,891     6,179   15,487   21,666    12,781       4,905    17,686    18,302   35.988
1973    15    11,065     1,008    12,073    2,985   15,058      2,560      4,039     6,509   15,189   21,788    13,625       5,047    18.672    18,174   36.846
1974    15    11,7!0       747    12.497    2.725   15,222       3.025     3,986     7,011   15,208   22,219    14,775       4,733    19.508    17,933   37.441  w
1975    15    11,840       818    12,658    2,776   15,434      3,396      4.034     7,430   15,447   22,877    15,236       4,861    20,088    18,223   38,311  1
1976     -    12,052       752    12,804    2,591   15,395      4,276      4,601     8,877   14,857   23,734    16,328       5,353    21,681    17,448   39,129
1977     -    12,218       722    12,940    1,162   14,102      4,920      5,022     9,942   14,200   24,142    17,138       5,744    22,882    15,362   38,244
1978     -    12,763       547    13,310    1,555   14,865      6,209      5,547    11,756   15,220   26,976    18,972       6.094    25,066    16,77S   41,841
1979     -    13,613       207    13,R20       923   14,743     8,129      5,549    13,678   14,880   28,558    21,742       5,756    27,498    15,803   43,301
1980     -    13,733       160    13,893       980   14,873     8,670      5,587    14,257   14,709   28,966    22,403       5,747    28,150    15,689   43,839
1981     -    14,054       121    14,175    1,081   15,256    10,661       5,180    15,841   12,819   28,660    24,715       5,301    30,016    13,900   43,916
1982     -    14,249       100    14,349    1,246   15,595    11,517       5,136    16,653   11,708   28,361    25,766       5,236    31,002    12.954   43,956
1983     -    14,980        92    15,072       479   15,551    13,036      5,040    18.076   10,638   28.714    28,016       5.132    33,148    11,117   44,265
1984     -    14,980        92    15,072       511   15,583    13,036      5,040    18,076   10,875   28,951    28,016       5,132    33,148    11,386   44,534
1985     -    15,132        86    15,218       483   15.701    16,124      4,893    21,017    8,619   29,636    31,256       4,975    36,235     9,102   45,337
a  Roads which receive the normal allocatlon of maintenance funds.
/b Roads which are under construction or being considered for Itprovement.
Source:  Department of Highways.
March 1986



THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Department of Highways' Roads by Region in 1985
(Kilometers)
National highways                      Provincial roads                 National & provincial roads
Unim-                                 Unim-                                 ,Unim-
Region              Paved    Gravel  proved    Total   Paved    Gravel  proved    Total   Paved   Gravel   proved    Total
North                 3,310        17       95    3,422    4,582        801   3,664    9,047    7,892          818   3,759   12,469
Northeast             4,624        39      140    4,803    4,279    1,790   1,892    7,961    8,903    1,829   2,032   12,764
Central               4,252        22       89    4,363    4,294    1,438   1,642    7,374    8,546    1,460   1,731   11,737
South                 2,946         8      159    3,113    2,969        864   1,421    5,254    5,915          872   1,580    8,367
Total          15,132        86      483   15,701   16,124    4,893   8,619   29,636   31,256    4,979   9,102   45,337
Source:  Computer Center, Department of Highways.
March 1987
co



-35-                                   Table 2.3
J
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration 1970-84
Location            Year          Cars      Buses     Trucks  Motorcycles    Other          Total
A. Number 3f Units (000)
Thailand            1970          222         19        136          338          23          738
1971          235        18        147          364           19          783
1972          240        20        159          376           38          833
1973          251        22        179          408           27          887
1974          301        23        232          459           31        1,046
1975          290        23        238          479           31        1,061
1976          298        20        285          512           30        1,145
1977          331        27        345          648           38        1,390
1978          363        28        372          727           48        1,538
1979          389        29        399          756           47        1,621
1980          412        30        468          907           47        1,864
1981          451        64        472        1,141           50        2.178
1982          388/a    210/b       555        1,368           60        2,578
1983          412       221        569        1,716           59        2,977
1984          573       198        598        1,912           61        3,342
Bangkok and         1970          173          5        43            69          15          305
Tr5uri_rI         1971           183         5         44           74          15          321
1972          183         6         43            72          16          320
1973          185         6         44            73          14          322
1974          232         6         62            74          17          391
1975          218         7         43           87           13          368
1976          222         5         56           94           16          393
1977          243        10         69          121           20          463
1978          265        11         71          129           27          503
1979          287        12         83          136           28          546
1980          314        13        102           162          30          621
1981          348        13         98          290           32          781
1982          283/a    123/b       122          339           35          902
1983          305-      13T-       128          391           35          998
1984          411       140        108          436           35        1,130
B. Annual Growth Rates (Z)
Thailand          1970-81         6.6        8.0       13.3         11.3         7.9         10.3
1982-84'       21.5      -2.9        3.8         18.2         0.8         13.9
Banokok and       1970-81         6.4      10.4        8.8          11.7         8.2          8.3
Toin5uriH       1982-84        20.5       6.7       -5.9         13.4          0.0         11.9
/a Excluding personal cars seating more than 7 persons (since 1982).
7_ Including personal cars seating more than 7 persons (since 1982).
Source: Licenses Division, Police Department.



Table 2.4
-36-
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Vehicle-Kilometer for the Year 1981-85
Vehicle kilometer (million)
Passenger vehicle                            Freight vehicle
Car and    Light       Heavy                 Light      Medium    Heavy                   Grand
Highway class               Taxi        bus        bus      Total      truck      truck      truck      Total        total
1981
Primary highways        2,420.1      790.4      722.6   3,933.1   1,507.1        902.4   1,145.9   3,555.4    7,488.5
Secondary highways    1,610.8        778.5      438.8   2,828.1   1,141.6        635.1      491.2   2,267.9    5,096.1
National highways  4.030.9   1,568.9   1,161.4   6,761.2   2,648.7   1.537.!   1,637.1   5,823.3   12,584.5
Provinctial highways   1,516.0   1,260.6        420.7   3,197.3   1,713.4        896.8      501.7   3,111.9    6,309.2
Total                5,546.9   2,829.5   1,582.1   9,958.5   4,362.1   2.434.3   2,138.8   8,935.2   18,893.7
1982
Primarv highways        2,912.9      903.4      833.2   4,649.5   1,721.8   1,057.0   1,208.1   3,986.9    8,636.4
Secondary highways    1,724.3        744.2      438.7   2,907.2   1,250.6        621.7      485.3   2,357.6    5,264.8
National highways  4.637.2   1,647.6   1,271.9  7,556.7   2,972.4   1,678.7   1,693.4   6,344.5   13,901.2
Provincial highways   1,688.1   1,257.9         415.0   3,361.0   1,806.7        935.4      521.0   3,263.1    6,624.1
Total               6,325.3   2,9n5.5   1,6R6.9  10,917.7   4,779.1   2,614.1   21214.4   9,607.6   20,525.3
1983
Primary highways        3,051.2      989.4      876.4   4,917.0   2,009.5   1,157.6   1,295.6   4,462.7    9,379.7
Secondary highways    1,938.7        730.4      447.1   3,116.2   1,442.6        652.5      540.6   2,635.7    5,751.9
National highways  4,989.9   1,719.8   1,323.5   8,033.2   3,452.1   1,810.1   1,836.2   7,098.4   15,131.6
Provinctial highways   1,942.8   1,213.4        441.4   3,603.6   2,050.9        954.9      580.9   3,586.7    7,190.3
Total                6,932.7   2,933.2   1,764.9  11,636.8   5,503.0   2,765.0   2,417.1  10,685.1   22,321.9
1984
Primary highways        3,168.5      993.8      901.4   5,063.7   2,277.3   1,214.9   1,519.4   5,011.6   10,075.3
Secondary highways    2,134.9        788.2      473.3   3,396.4   1,756.3        752.1      664.6   3,173.0    6,569.4
National highways  5.303.4   1,782.0   1,374.7   8,460.1   4,033.6   1,967.0   2,184.0   8,184.6   16,644.7
Provincial highways   2,128.3   1,294.4         471.7   3,894.4   2,263.4   1,037.3         647.3   3,948.0    7,842.4
Total                7,431.7   3,076.4   1.846.4  12,354.5   6.297.0   3,004.3   2,831.3  12.132.6   24,487.1
1985
Primary highways        3,509.5   1,024.9       947.9,  5,482.3   2,596.0   1,253.9   1,628.1   5,478.0   10,960.3
Secondary highways    2,238.6        796.2      506.4   3,541.2   1,855.1        725.7      679.7   3,260.5    6,801.7
National highways  51748.1   1,821.1   1,454.3   9,023.5   4,451.1   1,979.6   2,307.8   8,738.5   17,762.0
Provincial highways   2,264.4   1,303.4         501.6   4,069.6   2,502.3   1,101.3         622.3   4,225.9    8,295.5
Total                8,012.5   3,124.5   1,956.1  13.093.1   6,953.4   3,080.9   2,930.1  12.964.4   26,057.5
Source:  Traffic Engineering Office, DOH.
March 1987



-37-
Table 2.5
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Department of Highways - Expenditures and Sources of Finance, 1972-86
(B million)
Government budget                                       Consumer
Construction                                     price
Fiscal           Adminis-   Mainte-   rehabilitation                  Foreign             index
year /a          tration/b  nance/c   and improvement    Total         loans    Total    (%)
/d
1971                626        350    2,038         289     3,303       192    3,495    39.6
1972                609        304    1,578         219     2,710       146    2,856    41.6
1973                628        310    1,766         416     3,120       203    3,323    48.0
1974                801        341    1,866          66     3,074       112    3,186    59.7
1975                708        454    2,140          45     3,347        83    3,430    62.9
1976                957        573    3,042         100     4,672       145    4,817    65.5
1972-76            3,703      1,982   10,392         846    16,923       689   17,612        -
(3rd plan)
%                 21         it        59          5         -         4       100
1977              1,033        615    2,766         427     4,841       207    5,048    70.4
1978                901        575    3,492         566     5,534       211    5,745    76.0
1979              1,218        867    3,298         684     6,067       458    6,525    83.5
1980              1,363        811    4,311         725     7,210       750    7,960   100.0
1981              1,492      1,045    5,020         628     8,185       700    8,885   112.7
1977-81
(4th plan)         6,007      3,913   18,887       3 030    31,837    2,326   34,163         -
%              -17           12   - 55             9          -        7       100
1982              1,811      1,504    3,965         905     8,185       878    9,063   118.6
1983              1,776      1,720    3,565       1,056     8,117       817    8,934   123.0
1984              1,748      1,881    3,740         680     8,049       578    8,627   124.1
1985              1,875      2,385    3,933         720     8,913       948    9,861   127.1
1986/e            1,757      2,303    3,821       1,047     8,928    1,052    9,980   129.4
1982-86
(5th plan)         8,967      9,793   19 024       4,408    42,192    4,273   46,465         -
%                 19         21        41         10-         -        9       IOU
/a  October 1 - September 30.
/b  Includes the cost of:  (a) mechanical equipment repair and its partial replacement,
which are not apportioned to maintenance and construction works, and (b) highway
patrols.
/c  Excludes fuel, oil and spare parts (about 20% of given budget figures), which are part
of the cost of administration.
/d  Foreign loans counterpart.
7e  Budget allocation.
Source: Department of Highways/International Financial Statistics and Bank mission.
March 1987



Table 2.6
-38-
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimates of Tax Receipts from Road Sector (1980-85)
(B milliion)~
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Custom Duty and Excise Tax
Gasoline                         7,683   8,098   8,179   9,331   9*460   99714
High-speed diesel                3,149   3,348   3,302   3,281   3,870   39232
Cars, parts and accessories    2,483   3,224   2,823   4,144   5,092   4,161
Tires                               50       57       38      89       93      76
Subtotal                     13,365  14,727  14,342  16,845 *-18,515  I77183
Business and Municipal Tax
Gasoline                           216      330       39       2       49        3
High-speed diesel                  473      544     599      494      948      128
Cars, parts and accessories        441      550     530      632      911     731
Tires                                19      20       14      30       40       35
Vehicle registration fee /a        788      992   1,207   1,454   1,495   1,486
Subtotal                      1,937   2,436   2,389   2,612   3,443   21383
Total                        15,302  17,163  16,731  19,457  21,958  1
/a  Including fee of Police Department in the whole Kingdom and Transport
Department in Bangkok.
Source: Customs, Excise, Police and Highways Departments.
March 1987



Table   7
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Design Standarda for National and Provinctal Roads
Bridge with (between curbs):  9 m on national highways classes P(D), P(l), S(D) and S(l)
8 i on national highways classes P(2) and P(3) and on provincial roads class
P(l) and P(2)
7 a on provincial roads class F(3) to F(6)
Vertical clearance:             4.50 a
Design axle load (pavement):  20.000 lb (24,000 lb in Bangkok area)
Design bridge loading:          HS20
Geometric design standard Ia:                                                       Terrain
Fiat and ocer-    xoiiing ana
Highways and Roads                       Unit                    atell rolling         hilly          'Mountains
Kjtional (Primary)
Dsilgn sTee                           kim/h                       80-100             60-80             50-60/b
Maximum gradient                        2                            4                 6                 8/b
Right-of-woy                            u                          60-80             60-80             60-IT
National (Secondary and Provin-
ciai F1D). Ft1)k r(27 and Pk)
Design speed                          km/h                         70-90             55-70             40-55/b
Maximum gradient                        X                            6                 9                 10/b
Right-of-way                            i                          40-60             40-50             40-&Tr
Provincial F(4). F(S) and F(6)
Deslgn speed                            km/h                        60-80             45-60             30-45/b
Maximum gradient                        2                            8                 10                12/6-
Right-of-way                            m                          20-40             20-40             20-Trr
Roadway features:
National (Primary)              Class       P(D)                 71)                   P(2)                 P(3)
Equivalent daily traffic       no.   above 8,000           4,000-8,000           2,000-4,000          below 2,000
(aadt) /a
Surf acd--ry=e /c               a         high                 high             lntermediate          intermediate
Width of carrTaigeway           a divided 2 x 7.00/d           7.00                  6.50                 6.00
Width of shoulder /b             a        2.50                 2.50                  2.25                  2.00
Width of roAdbed F-             a        varies                12.00                11.00                 10.00
National (Secondary)             Class                 S(D)      I(l)       S(2)       S(3)      S(4)       S(5)
Equivalent daily traffic       no.                  above      4.000-    2,000-    1,000-       300-     below
(aadt) /a                                         8,000     8,000      4.000      2,000      1,000      300
Surface type /c                 a                   high       high      inter-    inter-       low      gravel
mediate   mediate
Width of carriageway            a                  divided      7.00      6.50       6.00      5.50   (including
2 x 7.00/d                                           soles
Width of shoulder /b             a                   2.50       2.50      2.25       2.00      1.75   shoulders)
Width of roadbed 15              a                 varies      12.00      11.00     10.00      9.00       9.00
Provlncial                       Class  P (DU           Q(2)                7(3)       F(4)/e      F(5) and F(6)
Equivalent daily traffic        no.      above      4,000-    2,000-    1,000-       300-          above 300
(aadt) /a                              8.000      8,000     4,000      2,000      1,000          below 300
Surface type /c                  a        high      hlgh       Inter-    Inter-      low            gravel
mediate   mediate
Width of carriageway             a      divided      7.00       6.50      6.00       5.50   (including shoulders)
2 x 7.00/d
Width of shoulder b              m        2.50       2.50       2.25       2.00      1.75
Width of roadbed !FT             a       varies     12.00      11.00      10.00      9.00        9.00    6.00
]   Geometric standards normally based on 15-year traffic projections.
7 Design speed and vidths may be reduced and gradients increased In exceptional circumstances.
/c  Pavement design normally based on 7-year traffic prolections of equivalent 20,000 lb axle loads.
R Initially constructed with two lanes unless immediate construction of four lanes is economically
justified.
Ie Closs P(4) is for roads with projected sadt above 300 after 7 years.
Source: Department of HiNgrwaya.
March 1987



-40-
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Depa-rtment of Highways Budget1, 1984-86
(B million)
Item                                                   1984/a    1985/b    1986/b
Administration                                       1747.7   1,72        1757.3
General administration                               837.4     875.3      926.3
Administration for engineering                        64.0      58.8       74.6
Administration for operation                         300.4     248.7      223.1
Right-of-way acquisition                             285.6     279.4      277.9
Administration of construction centers                92.6      77.2       64.7
Highway patrol                                       167.7     187.9      190.7
Sp?ecial Highway Construction and Improvement          235.2     234.7      189.9
Highway Construction Rehabilitation and
Upgrading                                          3,620.9   4,310.1   4,145.0
National highways                                  1,157.7   12789.8   1,559.8
Primary highways                                  530.7      886.2      793.3
Secondary highways                                627.0      903.6     766.5
Provincial highways                                2,463.2   2,520.3   2,585.2
Hiab%ay Maintenance /c                     -         1,881.7   2,408.8   2,303.0
Routine maintenance                                  775.3   1,208.7   1,104.5
Special and periodic maintenance                   1,106.4   1,200.1   1,198.5
Security Roads                                         564.0     634.5      532.9
Total Government Budget                   8,049.5   9,315.4   8,928.1
External loans                                         578.0     948.0   1,052.0
Total Budet                               8,627.5  101263.4   91980.1
(a Actual expenditures.
/b Budget allocations.
7_  Maintenance requirements estimated at constant 1983 prices, for the Second
Provincial Roads Project, amounted to B 2,247 million for 1984; B 2,300
million for 1985 and B 2,355 million for 1986.
Source:  DOH and Bank mission,
March 1987



-41-
Table 2.9
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Highway Maintenance Budget Requirements
1986      i987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992
Road Network (km)
Paved                  31,256    32,143    33,000    33,797    34,521    35,314    36,043
Unpaved                 4,979     4,679      4,422     4,262      4,194     4,039      3,905
Total           36,235    36,822    37,422    38,059    38,715    39.353    39,948
Road Condition (km
Paved (km)
Good                 15,595    17,640    19,568    21,512    23,631    26,077    28,414
Fair                 10,654     8,125      6,500     5,200     4,160      3,328     2,662
Poor                  5,007     6,378      6,932     7,085     6,730      5,909     4,967
Unpaved (kcm)
Good                  2,490     2,340      2,211     2,131      2,097     2,020      1,953
Fair                  1,494     1,404      1,327     1,279      1,258     1,212      1,172
Poor                    996       936        884       852        839       808        781
Work Program (km)
Routine                36,235    36,822    37,422    38,059    38,715    39.353    39,948
Periodic paved          2,131      1,960     2,174     2,390      2,626     2,897      3,157
Rehab. of poor paved      760     1,071      1,147     1,395      1,653     1,608        993
Paving of gravel          800        757       660       568        655       634        400
Cost Estimate (B million)
Routine                 978.3     994.2   1,010.4   1,027.6   1,045.3   1,062.5   1,078.6
Periodic paved        1,449.1   1,332.8   1,478.5   1,625.4   1,785.5   1,970.3   2,146.8
Rehab. of poor paved 1,368.1   1,928.1   2,064.3   2,511.3   2,975.6   2,894.0   1,788.0
Subtotal       3,795.5   4,255.1   4,553.2   5,164.3   5.806.4   5,926.8   5,013.4
Paving of gravel      1,560.0   1,476.9   1,286.2   1,107.0   1,278.0   1,236.0        780.0
Total          5,355.5   5,732.0   5,839.4   6,271.3   7,084.4   7,162.8   5,793.4
Bde    B million)
Recurrent /a
(saint. !-rehab)   2,253.1   2,482.0   2,680.6   2,895.0   3,126.6   3,376.8   3,478.1
Development (rehab)  1,542.4   1,773.1   1,872.6   2,269.3   2,679.8   2,550.0   1,535.3
Subtotal       3,795.5   4,255.1   4,553.2   5,164.3   5.806.4   5,926.8   5,013.4
Development (paving)   1,560.0   1,476.9   1,286.2   1,107.0   1,278.0   1,236.0         780.0
Total          5,355.5   5.732.0   5,839.4   6,271.3   7,084.4   7,162.8   5,793.4
Policies ()              Unit cost (B mln/km)
Routine maintenance to be done                   100                          0.027
Periodic maintenance to be done                  100                          0.680
Rehabilltation to be done                                                     1.800
as per percentage below
Gravel roads to be paved annually                                              1.950
Rehabilitation [S)        15.18      16.80     16.55     19.69      24.56     27.21      20.00
Excludes emergency works.
Source: DOH and Bank mission.
March 1987



-42-                              Table 3.1
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
DOH's Total Expenditure Program, 1987-1991
(B million)
Total
1987       1988       1989       1990       1991    1987-91
Road Development Plan                 4,056.0   4,601.3   5,295.5   6,227.7   5,784.3  25,964.8/a
Rehabilitation & reconstruction  1,773.1    1,872.6   2,269.3   2,679.8   2,550.0  11,144.%
Improvement of congested roads        533.3      807.6   1,241.2   1,711.4   1,494.0   5,787.5
Upgrading to Bitumen standard    1,476.9   1,286.2   1,1n7.0   1,278.0   1,236.0   6,384.1
New road construction                 195.4      267.3      304.8      268.5      185.3   1,221.3
Interchanges and bridges               77.3      257.6      233.2      120.0      120.0      808.1
Safety program                          0.0      110.0      140.0      170.0      199.0      619.0
Road Maintenance                      2,522.0   2,723.8   2,941.7   3,177.0   3,431.2  14,795.7
Routine maintenance                 1,221.0   1,318.7   1,424.2   1,538.1   1,661.2   7,163.2
Periodic & special maintenance   1,261.0   1,361.9   1,470.8   1,588.5   1,715.6   7,397.8
Emergency maintenance                  40.0       43.2       '6.7       50.4       54.4      234.7
National Security Roads and
Nonprogrammed Projects              1,352.8   1,200.0   1,200.0   1,200.0   1,200.0   6,152.8
Administration                        1,809.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   9,809.0
Total                        9,739.8  10,525.1  11,437.2  12,604.7  12,415.5  56,722.3
Total Financing Plan (B million)
Government sources                  8,562.3   9,500.1  10,355.1  11,053.4  11,053.4  50,524.3
Foreign sources lb                  1,177.5   1,025.0   1,082.1   1,551.3   1,362.1   6,198.0
Total                        9,739.8  10,525.1  11,437.2  12,604.7  12,415.5  56,722.3
/a   Includes B 7,337.4 million of committed subprojects under the fifth plan.  In addition,
the sixth plan commits B 9,060.7 million for 1992 onwards.
/b   Includes ongoing loans, and projected borrowing of US$200 million (B 5,400 million
approved by the cabinet on April 7, 1987) for the highway sector to be obtained as
follows: FY88, World Bank US$50 million. FY89, other foreign sonrces US$100 million.
FY90 World Bank US$50 million.
September 1987



THAkILAND
8ttl"'CK     StcTOR POJCT\
Dn3I' l olop ent Plno  1981-
f             en v prec       WM-  Total in5-                                                      olojt                       Total In-
torn               1992    vpproved  veatment.n                                                  fre                 192      eteente
Proposed progrr                 Sth Plan   1987-91  onwrds  6th Plan   1987-91                  F-peeted program                  5th Plan  1987-91   onwvards   197-91
1487     198f     I'34     1Q90      1991      (1)      (2)       (3    (2. (3)    (I).(2)       197    I98 19        8      9  19    199      (1)         (2)      0)      (1)5(2)
ethabilitatIon and Recon-
slruttiofl
OnRo0nR                  t,894.0.   982.1   lR9.7         .0n     n.0   2.167.9         -        -         -    2.867.4   1,696.0   992.1    189.17        0.0      0.    2,47.8        -        n.0   2.*87.8
now projerta                77.01   890.5  2,079.6  2.679.8  2,550.0         -    8.277.0    549.0   8,826.0   8,277.n        77.0   890.5  2,079.6  2.679.8  2.550.0          -    8,277.0   s59.0   8,277.0
Subtotal           1,773.1  1,872.6  2.2bq.3  2.679.8  I.5S0.0   2.R67.8   8,277.0   31490   8.R26.0  11,144.8   t.773.1  I.A72.6  2.269.3  2.f79.P  2,550,0   2.867.S   8,277.0    549.0  tt,144.8
twprovnt of Congot
Road*  I ItuttLtwn co.t.H
o1-Itlts                   4b3.1    301.8    211.4       o.0      0.0   t,tt9.0         -        -         -    1.179.n      483.3   5n0.R    211.9        n.Q      0.0   1.17q.7         -       0.o   1,179.n
8ev projects                70.n   607.5  1,583.5  1,990.0  1,494.0          -    5,745.0  2,186.0   7.931.0   5,745.0        70.0    303.8  1,029.3  1,711.4  1.494.0         -    4,608.4  3.322.6   4.608.6
Subtotal             533.3  1,111.3  1,795.4  1.990,0  1,494.0   t.179.0   5.745.0  2,t86.n   1,911.0   6,924.n        533.3    807.6  1,241.2  1.71t.4  1.494.0  t1,19.0   4,603.4  3,322.6   5,787.4
1to am to Otetw
0ngo409                  1,391.4  1.020.7    236.1      37.0     30.0   2,726.4         -        -         -    2,726.6   ,793.4  1.020.7    238.3        37.0     39.0   2,726.4        -        0.0   2.728.4
UV projecto                 83.5    663.8  1.934.9  1.772.8  1.57t.0         -    6,030.0  1,833.0   7.863.0   6,030.0        85.5   265.5   870.7  1,241.0  1,147.0           -    3.657.7  4,205.3   3.657.7
Subtotel           1.476.9  IA84.5  2,17t.2  1.809.t t.614.0   2,726.4   6,010.0  1.831.0  7.663.0   6.756.4   1,676.9  t,286.2  t,tn7.0  1.278.0  1,234.n   2.726.4   3,b57.7  4.205.3   6.384.'
am  Road Comatruction
*IIaang Ltnta 
OnRotnR                     167.8     63.3     45.0      0.0      0.0     27b.1         -        -         -       27S.1     167.R     63.3     *5.0       0.0      o.A     276.1                 0 n.o   778.1
NW projecta                 27.6    272.0    346.4    358.0    247.0         -    1.25S.0    398.0  t,649.0   1.251.0         27.6   204.0    259.8    268.5    185.3          -      945.2    703.9      945.2
Subtotal             19.4    3313.3    39t.4    3S8.0    247.0      276.1   1,25t.0    398.0   1.649.0  t,.27,t    I15.4    267.3    304.8    26R.S    18S.3          276.1     945.Z    7ni,9  t.221.3
toterchapev a nd Bridge.
Ontaonn          rd          6S.3   109.8    113.2       0.0      0.0      288.1        -        -          -      268.1      8.5.3    109.6    113.2      °.°      n.0     28f.1         -       0.0     2P8.t
Iew projects                 12.0    148.0   120.0    120.0   120.0          -       520.0    280.0     800.0      520.0      12.0    148.0    120.0    120.0    120.n         -       520.0    2R0.0     520,0
Subtotal              77.3    257.6    233.2    120.0    120.0      288.1      520.0    28n.0     800.0     808.1       77.3    257.6    213.2    i20.0    120.0      288.1     520.0    28O.n      Rn8.1
Safety Progrin
0,igninotn.0                           00       Ox       0.0      0.0        n.0        -        -         -         0.0       0.0      0.0       n.n      0.0      O.n       n.0         -       n.o       n.0
New projects                 0.0    110.0    140.0   170.0    199.0          -       619.0      0.0     619.0      619.0       0.0    110.0    140.0    17n.0    199.n         -      b19.0       0.0     bl9.n
Subtotal               0.0   1tO.0    140.0    170.0   199.0          0.0     619.0       0.0     619.0     619.0        0.0    11n.0    140.n      7n.00    199.0      o.n     619.0      0.0      619.0
Total
Ongoing                  3,r85.8  2,679.5    796.t    37.0       39.0   7,317.4        0. 0     O.0       0.0   7,337.4   3.785.8  2,b79.5    796.1       37.0     39.0   7.337.4       0.0       O.C   7,337.4
mev  protecto              270.2  2,691.8  6.704.4  7,090.6  6.185.0        0.0  22,442.0  5,246.0  27,688.0  22,442.0       270.2  1,921.8  4.499.4  6,190.7  5,745.3        0.0  18.627.3  9.060.7  18,627.3
Total              4.n06.0  5,371.3  7,0005   7.127,6  6.224.0   7,337.4  22,442.0  5,746.0  27.68R.0  29.779.4   4,056.0  4.601.3  5,295.5  6.227.7  5.784.3   7.337.4  18.627.3  9.06n.7  25,964.7
R*rch 1987



THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Construction/Improvement of Provincial Roads
First Year Construction Program /a
Cumn.
1984                 Const.    const.
Std. Rd.       Identifier                                                          Length   Length        ADT   Prooosed    cost lb    cost           IRR
no.     Dist.  Route  Sect          Origin                Destination             (km)      (VPD)    (VPD)   standard    -- (B nmillon) --          (!)
_-010      31R    4111   0100   A.Khuan Niang               B. Pak Cha              1t.2      11.2        344       F4          21.9       21.9      34.6
423    3399   0101   J.R.3(B.Nong s1-1GA)   B. Laen Sadet                27.7      38.9        293       F4          40.0       61.Q      30.4
322    4124   0100   J.R.4(B.Nayong-Nua)        A. Yantakhao             24.7      63.6        400       F4         52.0       113.9     30.0
E-033      614    2233   0100   A.Phon                     R. Tha Nang Naeo         42.8    106.4         332       F4          76.9      190.8      27.2
C-009      422    3245   0300   B.Chumhum Prokfa           K.A.Nong Yal             32.0    138.4         294       P4          51.4      242.2      26.7
63R    2076   0200   B.Sompoinoi                 B.Muangmak              28.S    166.9         215        F4         47.3      289.5      2h.1
323    4034   0400   Paknam Krabi               R.Khao Thong             25.6    192.5         471       F4         47.0      336.5       2S.6
E-042      611    2285   0100   A.Pra Thai                  A.Chum Phuang           21.8    214.3         273        F4         43.3      379.8      23.7
614    2199   0100   A.Chonnabot                B.Donhan                 24.0    238.3         477       F4          36.4      416.2      22.2
515    1205   0100   B.Nong Khanak              A.Wang Pong              24.0    262.3         209       F4          55.0      471.2      22.1
S-001      326    4038   0200   K.A.Lam Thap                A.Thung Yat             26.9    289.2          307       F4         46.3      517.5      20.9
612    24      0100   A.Sikhiu                   A.Chokchai              51.4    340.6       1,400        P2        176.3      693.8      20.0
E-04t      611    2067   0102   A.Nonsung                   A.Kham Sakae Saeng    19.5    360.1           23R        F4         35.4      729.2      18.8
611    2150   0100   A.Khansakaesaeng            A.Khong                 28.0    388.1         483        F4         15.4      744.6      18.8
N-009      535    1126   0200   A.Padaet                    B."uai Ngiu             29.7    417.8         219        F4         5h.9      803.5      1.6
N-016      522    1150   010I    B.Ping Khong               A.Phrao                 30.3    448.1         215        P4         74.6      878.1      14.5
435    2211   0100   J.R.21 (A.Sithep)           R.2275                   33.n    461.0        230        F4         30.0      908.1      14.0
/a  Selected from the master list for Road Development Plan 1987-91.
/b  Financial cost at early 1987 prices.
Source:  Programming Section, Department of Highways.
March 1987                                                                                                                                      1 4



THAILAND
HIIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Flrst-Year Rehabilitation Program ia
Curn.
Clim.   Average    198r   lmproved Const    const
Identifier                                                                                  Length   Length   deflect        ADT      level   cost/d    corst      !RR
Otst. po,lte   Sect        Origin                    Destination         From    -      To        (km)       (km)      (mm)/b   (VPD)       /c    -- (B inn) --        (7)
6I9     214   0801   Surin                          RT.24 (APrasat)    n.0no   -   29.41S    29.451   29.451   0.6684    4,961              8       76.8     7h.8    4S.1
SIS      21   (JA0(   R.Wang Chomphu Bypass         Phetchahtin        200.OO    -  222.700    22.700   52.151   0.2585    2,483           A      21.6      98.4    3f .i,
632     214   00no   Katasin                        B.Lam Chi            0.0nrl   -   28.0nn     2.nr0   8f0.151   r.3149    1,S92          B       55.7    1S4.1    32.6
331       4   2901   A.Khura Buri                   A.Takuapa          727.300   -  776.160    4A.8,8   129.)11   n.39S5    1,240           a      98.7    252.8    2R.,
413      309   0100   Wang 1Noi                     Avutthava            0.0O0   -   7). 950    20.8S9  149.R61   0.4469        1,2Q7      C/B      5q.6    312.4    2h.6
612     214   0200   B.Lam Chi                      Roiet               28.000   -   46.375    18.375  168.236   0.3149    1,064            B      39.6    349.n    24.;
611    22Sk   0200   A.Chal Badan                   A.Dan Khun Thot   37.(00    -   79.085    38.nR5  2n6.321   0.830n          1,138      B/A     44.S    393.;    24.4
416    3035   n30n   Pathumthami                    A.Lai Lum Kaeo       n.noo   -   13.840    13.840  220.161   0.8778    3,144           B/A     49.9    443.4    24.4
423     317   ol00    J.R.3                         A.Pong Namron        7.n0n    -   58.0n0    51.000  271.161   0.3896    2,474                 1133.2    553.6    22.2
411    3256   0300   SOT Onnut (Lat Krabang)    Bang PIi                11.719   -   25.719    14.0n0  285.161   0.6283    5,603           C/B    306.R    660.4    21.8
la  Selected from the master list for the Road Development Plan 1987-91.
/b  Average deflection from Renkelman Beam Test.
77  C   Reconstruction.  B - Rehabilitation.  A - Overlay.
7T  Financial cost at 1987 prices.
Source:  Programming Secti.n, Department of Highwavs.
March 1987



-46-
Table 4.3
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative Allocation of the Proposed Loan
Bank
Approximate cost    participation
Items                                           B mln     US$ mln   US$ mln    %
Rehabilitation/strengthening and overlays
of paved roads /a                             1,404.0    54.0        27.0      50
Improvement and paving of
provincial roads /a                             629.2    24.2        12.1      50
Safety program
Civil works on hazardous locations              300.0    11.5         5.8      50
Equipment                                        16.0/b   0.6         0.6    100
Technical assistance                              7.8     0.3/c        -        -
Equipment for testing materials and
pavements and for auditing                       16.0/b   0.6         0.6    100
Training program (buildings, equipment,
experts)                                         52.1/b   2.0         2.0    100
Consultant services for phase II of
Interurban Bus Study, highway mainte-
nance, data system and postevaluation
capability of MOC, and supervision of
works                                            49.4      1.9        1.9    100
Total                                     2p474.4    95.1         50.0
/a DOR is seeking an additional UJS$50 million Bank loan in 1990, to support
these programs and to use the Bank financing to rehabilitate a total of
about 1200 km of paved roads and to pave some 800 km of provincial roads.
/b Possible financing by BITS and/or SIDA Sweden.
/c Excluding taxes.
Source: Department of Highways, Mission.
September 1987



-47-
Table 4.4
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Safety Program - Summary of DOH's First Year Program
Road                       Bi-    Pedes-
improve-  Traffic   Guard  cycle  trian
Division                 ment    signal /a  rail  lane   bridge   Total
Songkhla                     -        2          3      -       -         5
Nakhonsithammarat            2        4          6      -       -        12
Prachuapkhirikhan            1        2          4      -       -         7
Bangkok                      3        6          -      -       6        15
Chachoengsao                 -        3          3      -       1         7
Lopburi                                1         2      -       -         3
Ph'.tsanolok                 -        3         13      -       -        16
Chiangmai                    2        2         16      -       -        20
Phrae                        -        4         12      -       -        16
Nakhonratchasima             -        2          5      -       -         7
Khon Kaen                    -         5         6      1       -        12
Ubonratchathani              3        -          5      -       -         8
Total Number of
Locations           11        34         75     1        7       128
/a Including streetlighting.
Source: Department of Highways.
September 1987



-48-
Table 4.5
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative Program for Swedish Assistance to
the National Safety Council (NSC)
Aim:      To develop data systems and research methods pertaining to road
traffic accidents in Thailand and to set up a monitoring and
evaluation system for safety intervention programs.
Methods:  The Swedish Road and Traffic Research Institute (VTI) will assist
the NSC in developing an action program for 1988-91 and will train
and assist NSC personnel to execute the program. The program is
tentatively divided into seven activities, summarized below together
with the costs and a suggested timetable,
Estimated cost (SKr)          Timetable
Preparation of deta4led action program        194,000              Jan.-Feb. 1988
and program for education and
technical assistance to NSC
Study visit to Sweden by the                  93,000               Mar.-Apr. 1988
Secretary General ef the NSC
Training course for NSC, DOH and              900,000              May -June 1988
Police Department personnel
Technical assistance and                      289,000              Nov.-Dec. 1988
supervision of the program in                                    Nov.-Dec. 1989
Thailand                                                         Nov.-Dec. 1990
Fellowships for Thai university              300,000              1989, 1990, 1991
postgraduate students in
Sweden
Final reports to BITS                          90,000                 Feb.1991
Seminar in Thailand                           100,000                 Mar.1991
Total Costs                           1,966,000
(US$302,000)
Source: Mission.
March 1987



-49-
Table 4.6
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Training Program for DOR Staff, 1988-1990
Number of trainees
Subject                                     Level        1988        1989        1990
Training of trainers                         3-8          230         175         175
Training of specialists                      4-6           15           -           -
Road maintenance management                  7-8           50          25          25
Road maintenance techniques                  3-6          370         265         265
Maintenance equipment operation               -            50          25          25
Highway safety                               4-6          150         150          150
Highway planning                             3-6           50          50          50
Highway design                               3-6           45          45          45
Highway construction                         3-6          200         140         140
Bridge construction                          3-6           70          60          60
Material engineer                            3-7          100          80          80
Structure design                             3-6           55          55          55
Surveying                                    3-5           80          25          25
Equipment repairing                          3-6           90          90          90
Workshop management                          4-7           90          60          60
Management for district engineers             7            25          25           25
Management for supervisors                   5-8          320         240         240
Revolving fund                               3-6          1 0         150         150
Computer application                         3-8           75          50          50
Statistics                                   3-4           30          30          30
Finance administration                       3-6          120          80          80
Procurement administration                   3-6          110          80          80
Correspondence administration                3-4           80          80          80
General administration                       4-6           70          40          40
Personnel administration                     4-5           20           -           -
Right-of-way acquisition                     3-6           60          60          60
Behavioral science application               3-8        1,080       1,580       1,580
Morality, regulation, discipline             3-8          830       1,580       1,580
Total Number of Trainees                          4,615       5,240        5,240
Total number of courses                                   121         125         125
Total number of course-weeks                              189         185         185
Source: Training Division, Department of Highways.
March 1987



-50-                               Table 4.7
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative Cost of  OH's Training Program, 1988-1990
(Baht million)
Items                                          1988            1989            1990
Training facilities and equipment /a
Training facilities                          1.89          28.20
Training equipment                          8.00            11.00
Experts /a                                     1.06            1.94
Invited lecturers                             0.12            0.16             0.16
Local staff                                    3.00            3.50            4.50
Office equipment/materials                    2.50             3.00            3.50
Meetings of committees                         0.05            0.20            0.05
Development of curriculum                     0.05            0.03
Evaluation of training                        0.02            0.05             0.03
Lodging, transportation and
allowances                                  12.00           14.00           16.00
Stationary materials and other
operating costq                              1.51            2.46            2.46
Total                                   30.11           64.54           26.70
/a Training facilities, equipment and experts would be partially financed by
the proposed Bank loan; the remainder would be financed by DO-'s
operational budget.
Source: Mission.
September 1987



-51-                                 Tahle 4.8
THAItLAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PRO.JECT
Summary of Consultant Services to be Financed 11nder the Loan
(Man-months)
Rstimate
of consultants' input
Agency    Subject                                       Foreign      Local      Total       Timing
MOC       Improvement of transport data system            12          24         36    June-Dec. 1488
LTD       intercity and rural bus tranqport               24                     48    Tline 88-June 8
DOH       Assistance to Maintenance Division to
implement TPMS                                18           -         18
Highway supervlsion                             36          72        108    Sept.88-Q1
Total                                      90         120        210
Source:  Mission
March 1987



-52-                           Table 4.9
THAILAND
HIGIWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement method                   Total
Project element                ICB        LCB       Other /a      N.A.      cost
Road rehabilitation,         50.0         4.0          -           -          54.0
strengthening and         (25.0)       t2.0)                               (27.0)
overlays
Improvement and paving       24.2          -           -           -          24.2
of provincial roads       (12.1)                                           (12.1)
Road safety program             -        11.5         0.6         0.3         12.4
(5.8)      (0.6)                    (6.4)
Equipment for                   -          -          0.6          -           0.6
pavement testing                                   (0.6)                    (0.6)
and for auditing
Training program                -          1.9        0.1          -           2.0
(1.9)      (0.1)                    (2.0)
Consultant services             -          -          1.9          -           1.9
(1.9)                   (1.9)
Total                   74.2        17.4         3.2        0.3         95.1
(37.1)      (9.7)       (3.2)         -         (50.0)
/a  Includes international and local shopping and consultant services.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by the proposed Bank loan.
Source: Mission.
September 1987



-53-
Table 4.10
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal year                                         Cumulative disbursements
at end of semester
1988
June 30, 1988                                                       3.1
1989
December 31, 1988                                                   8.o
June 30, 1989                                                      17.2
199(
December 31, 1989                                                  28.6
June 30, 1990                                                      40.0
1991
December 31, 1990                                                  48*0
June 30, 1991                                                      50.0
Source: Mission estimates.
September 1987



-54-                                 ANNEX I
Table I
THAILAND
I1GHWAY SECTOR PRO.JECT
Action Program to Control Truck Overloading and To Improve Road Safety
Responsi-         Target
Activity              bility             date                 Comments
Prepare action plan for implementing    LTD              February 1, IMR8  Consultant's final
the recommendations of the truicking                                        report due October
industry studv                                                               1987
Complete review of regulations on         LTI/MOC         Tune 30, 1988
road vehicle weights /a
Legislative approval of revised           Cabinet
vehlcle weight regulations
Acquisition/installation of               DOll           Before December
additional weight bridges                                   1990
Implementation of incentives to           MOC/ATn/MoF   January 30, 1989  Measures to be deter-
increase the use of multbaxle trucks                                        mined by MOC by August
as per cabinet decision of n2/25/86                                          1, 1qR8
Transfer of registration and              LTr)           August 30, 1P88   Transfering act was
inspecttion of motorcvcles, cars and                                        enacted July 23, 1987
ligh- vehieles to LTD                                                        antd will be effecttve
on July 23, 1988.
/a   A covenant under Loan 2311-TH.
Source: Land Transport Department.
September 1987



_55_                           ANNEX I
Table 2
THAILAND
HITGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Action Program to Complete Nationwide Implementation of TIMS
Activity                              Status              Timing
General Activities
-  Development of TPMs                        Accomplished             1984-85
-  Demonstration of TPMs in                   Accomplished             1985
Ayutthaya district
-  Appoint a system manager on a full         Accomplished             May 1987
time basis
-  Appoint a pavement engineer for TPMs,    Accomplished               June 19R7
from the Materials and Research            (2 engineers appointed)
Division, at Maintenance Division HQ
-  Appoint personnel and organize FSTs        Accomplished             Aug 1986
-  Appoint personnel and organi7.e FPET at    Accompliqhed             May 1987
headquarters (including paving testing
unit)
-  Set Up FELU at field divisions             Personnel being          Dee 1988
trained
-  Implement the road reference system         Accomplished            Aug 1986
-  Installation of computer terminals at    Installation com-
12 Divisions                               pleted.  Personnel       June 1987
being trained
-  Installation of computer terminal                                   June 1988
at HQ Maintenance Division
-  Full implementation of TPMS /a                                      June 1989
Annual Activities
-  Training FST and FEII (1,900 staff)        One week seminar         July
for each division
-  Field Survey by FST                                                 Oct-Jan
-  Issue of Provisional prioritv list                                  End of Jan
-  Revision by FEU and issue of firm                                   End March
priority list
-  Testing by HQ (Central testing unit)                                 lan-Dec
-  Allocation of budget                                                Mid June
-  Preparation of working plan                                         June-July
-  Approval of working plan                                            September
-  Implementation of plan                                              Oct-Sept
/a    Preparation of maintenance budget for FY 1990 to be based on full use of
TPMS
Source: DOH/Maintenance Dlvision
September 1987



-56-                                   ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 1
THAIIAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Action Program to Complete Implementation DOH's Equipment
Revolving Fund Nationwide
1.  Restructure Organizational Chart /a                                  January 1988
2.  Formalize Organization                                               April 1988
3.  Personnel Assigned as Full Time Staff to                             September 1988
Revolving Fund According to No. I above
4. Training
Phase I  :  Start set up of four regional training centers           June 19R8
Phase II :  Begin training local personnel as instructors            June 1988
(Phase T and II to be developed concurrently)
Phase Ill:  Begin training of operational personnel                  July 1988
22 Sessions x 20 students/session
x three months/session
Operational training of approximately 2,200 people, 440 in each of the following
disciplines:
(a) Financial Accounting and Reporting Procedures (This system will be the one
presently being developed for the Revolving Fund as approved by DOH).
(b) Road Inventory based on their present Thailand Pavement Management System
(TPMS).
(c) Manpower Planning directed at the district, division and workshop engineers.
(d) Equipment Inventory. Transfer of system developed for Revolving Fund to other
districts and divisions.
(e) Spare Parts Inventory and Control. This system will need to be designed for
computerization with appropriate forms, codes, etc. being developed.
All of the above will    structured on a local data base concept utilizing
microcomputers linked .  the DO  computer center.  (Same concept as used on the
Revolving Fund.)
/a   Organizational structure under management consideration.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 2
5.  Training Phase completed and implementation to                 December 1994
total nationwide Revolving Fund System
6.  Equipment Acquisition Schedule Revised according               December 1989
to Regional Equipment Inventory/Condition Survey Reports
7.  Approval of performance budgeting formulas, policies and    April 1988
procedures
Annual Activities
Interagency review of administrative approvals                     Annual
Evaluation of fund objectives by Board of Managers                 Annually
Testing of total system, refinement of methodology, adjustment  Continual
in diagnostic procedures and formulation                       throughout
implementation
process
Evaluation of equipment needs                                      Annually
Source:  Equipment Revolving Fund IJnit, DOH.
September . 1987



-58-                           ANNEX 1
Table 4
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Action Program for Improvement of DOH's Training System
1.  Setting up Currictilum Development Committees            May 1987 - Dec 1987
2.  Setting up Training Assessment (Evaluation and            Tan. 1988 - July 1988
Follow-lip) Committeeq
3.  Preparing terms of reference for assistance from          .July 1987 (accomplished)
University and experts
4.  Local University Contract                                 July 1988
5.  Expert from Overseas                                      July 1988
6.  Reconditioning 2 Lecture Rooms and Training               Feb. 1988 - Sept. 1988
Division Office
7.  Designing of Training, Administrative and                 Aug. 1987 - May 1988
Lodging Buildings
8.  Construction of Item 7                                    Jan.  M89 - Dec. 1989
9.  Improvement of existing training facilities and           July 1938 - Dec. 1989
provision (if equipment
10. Implementation of training Drogram.  Emphasizing          Starting FY88
training of trainers, road maintenance management,
road maintenance techniquie, highway safety,
revolving fund and compuiter
Source:  Training Division, Department of Highways.
September 1987



-59-                               ANNEX 2
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ExamBle of Summary Data Sheet for Candidate Subproject
Road                   : 4124 0100
From                   : Ban Na Yong Nua
To                     : Amphoe Yan Ta Khao
Length                 : 24.7 km
Terrain                 : Flat and rolling agricultural land
Influence area         :  135.7 km2
Population density    :  181 persons/km2
Principal crops        : Rubber, rice
Construction costs    :  B 51,246,020 (Financial)
B 46,121,420 (Economic)
IRR                    :  28.6%
FYB                    :  14.1%
NPV                    :  B 95,686,000
B/C                       2.59
Existing con'3ition    : Laterite road in fair/poor condition with 3 km of
SBST
Proposed standard      :  F4
Traffic                :  Existing:  347 ADT
Projected:
1993:    657 ADT
1998:    857 ADT
2003: 1,120 ADT
Alternative conditions:  The study road follows a good existing alignment and
no alternative is proposed.
Recommendations        :  For immediate construction.



-6')-
ANNEX 3
THAILAND
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
- Facts and figures; Department of Highways, November 19f!6.
- Master list for Road Development Plan 1987-91; Department of Highways,
February 1986.
- Training activities at Department of Highways, Thailand; Dr. Somchob
Chaiyavej, November 1986.
- Evaluation/Preparation of DOH's training activities; Dr. Somchob Chaiyavej,
April 1987.
- Study of trucking industry, Phase II, draft final report, Kampsax, February
1987.
- Consolidation of the Management System and Organization of the Revolving
Fund for Plant and Vehicles; L. Berger in association with Coopers and
Lybrand Associates and Asian Engineering Consultants Corp; September 1986.
-  List of Safety Program for 1988; Department of Highways, March 1987.
May 1987



L_____; , ,                1 7-5--
-  --    -  L t   L.                                 r.-j                  _ _-.
F      -~~~~~ 
ht--         -    ---|~                 '. L..2-. [~- -J        --- [-X -}
----I-- --- -- -r -- .,--             -------            -      -  i-0 -                            - --
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-__ r- -__                          C'              I-,__ .).tO,_,.---I r--# C  1 @ r-.OS  41m} 
.03o I          .. .. .. . ........   ,  .  .  .  
*~~~. i -~~1- i                            _                    L2             '   ' -"-  1r, .FL~  ___  i_zL- L
--   I ,_ .- 1 1   ___,      J,            j       _J  *   _ __               -    '-_J,                _
00.    sL lN                  R%aW SVIM '-        13I
--rr~~~~r-----r-----~n----r                  ,,-- -
4 * _t-,llt | x4 1 smo"mwm    JO- . . _._. W SX_,I JO LKKHV3   wi 



HAP SECTION



Ch cmg~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~s 
BURMA                                                                                      i | @ngh   J  £ ,,2'>
BURhtA                     g'.       - ** ) t s9 L t_\  .>* LAO  PEOPLE'S  c
SR  %  ChMo-s tr  son\o-5  8  a 2DEMOCRATIC                              .i       i°'00CRA"C
5 tg Son b QTn <   I t00 ,    9  _REPUBLICVENA
Me                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vf.NAM
C  M D,S.khet
is                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ch..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
2  r iy8ctLoor  SiRcho  1 7<9 \iDEMOCRATIC
Dm                                  N. Krg-g     KAMPUCHEA
dl -\ HHw Hin ~~~~Soitoh, C                gtok                 BS-
Ka-oko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



gE 8n Loetn S i   RohoP                                                     DEMOCRATIC
,             {,tetcOwbun  [atno<>htnxet¢ $   )KAMPUCHEA
* f4v Hm                                c.t. 
2  JIxho,,
s(y  ong sopho~
Chun5hnO_;
100                       * R         I.an gSoph
THAILANDrmon5 -9 Soon                            VIET NAM
}-    Q                                                  ~~~~~~~T H AI0L AN D
>   Ko Scni,;                           HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
5cndondo,,  ChOi-   Do. Sck
t                                      -        EXISTING NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
EXISTING PROVINCIAL ROADS
T kw P                                       <81 -< f_.;N<xU 9 - - PAVED
UNPAVED
Si   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(FIRST PROJECT 341TH
> >  t  k                     _bng   UNPREVIOUS PROJEC:                  SECOND PROJECT 455TH
PREVIOUS PROJECTS~~         THIRD PROJECT 535TH
The Nwl               _             >                                         -      CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS   FOURTH PROJECT 626TH
FIFTH PRZOJECT 870TH
5SIXTH PROJECT is19rH
RAILROADSon <                           -w1 FIRST PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT 2035TH
tr   Krrw7bsvt  {  _   t    / \  +  §  RAILROADS  SECOND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT 2311TH
RIVERS
+    AIRPORTS
T     i phro     * w - ^ REGION BOUNDARIES
-   -"~ INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES
Yon sio" 1   Kh         hr
KILOMETERS
0        50       100      150       200
0,- 1 <,( X _i,,,   o  50    ' 100           I50
0 ~~ ~~7">Tck                                  MILES
MALAYSIA.                   f            Rhn                          c-
..OOr ~   rO *11014 an a - ooto*a-ewr. Co0oo'              Kvol Lumpur                          s Johreh



