Docummt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR. /,X2'- A'8'K
Report No.P-4428 -PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 5.9 MILLION (US$7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 22, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Pakistan Rupee (PRs) 16.23
PRsl a US$0.0616
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
APCOM   -    Agricultural Prices Commission
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
EAC     -    Experts Advisory Cell
GOP     -    Government of Pakistan
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
NCA     -    National Commission on Agriculture
NTRC    -    National Taxation Reform Commission
SAL     -    Structural Adjustment Loan
TA      -    Technical Assistance
TAPC    -    Technical Assistance Project Cell
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:            SDR 5.9 million (US$7 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:    The proposed project would support the Covernment in
formulating and implementing programs of structural and
policy reform in key sectors and subsectors of the economy,
and in maintaining an environment of sound macro-economic
management. Financing would be provided for studies,
specialized consultancies, training and equipment necessary
for building up the institutional capacity to design and
implement policy reforms on a permanent basis. The project
would assist the Government in the areas of macro-economic
management, resource mobilization, agricultural policy,
industrial strategy, and energy, transport, urban, and
education sector policies. Given the Government's
experience in implementing two previous technical assis-
tance projects (Cr. 1256-PAK and Cr. 1480-PAK), there are
no major project implementation risks anticipated. There
is the possibility, however, that the Government may not
implement some policy reform proposals, or may proceed more
slowly than desirable.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost:/a
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$1,000 …
Macro-Economic Management                           125      1,175      1,300
Agriculture                                          72        758        830
Industry                                             90      1,440      1,530
Transport                                            90        410        500
Education                                            45         55        100
Urban                                                81        169        250
Other lb                                            580      1,520      2,100
Counterpart Staff and Support Services            1,500         -       1,500
Total Base Costs                     2,583      5,527      8,110
Price Contingencies                                  65        325        390
Total Project Cost                   2,648       5,852    8,500
la Including taxes on local costs which are negligible.
7T Includes energy.
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
-US$1,000 …
IDA                                             1,148    5,852    7,000
Government                                      1,500        -     1P500
Total                                    2,648    5,852    8,500
Estimated Disbursements:
------------US$ Million------------
FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                      0.3    1.5      2.0     2.0      1.2
Cumulative                 0.3    1.8      3.8      5.8      7.0
Rate of Return:   Not Applicable
Appraisal Report: This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.
Map:                IBRD-16248R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 5.9 million (US$7 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms for a proposed third technical assistance
project to support the Government in formulating and implementing programs
of structural and policy reform in key sectors and subsectors of the economy,
and in maintaining an environment of sound macro-economic management.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in the
previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural sector,
real CDP increased by 8.4%, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added in agricul-
ture grew by 9.9% and in manufacturing by 8.6Z. Both fixed investment and
private investment rose by about 12x. Improved availability of agricultural
commodities helped to reduce the rate of inflation to 7.5% from 8.4% in FY84.
On the other hand, the budget deteriorated markedly, national savings
decreased, and the balance of payments came under pressure. Government
current revenues fell short of the budgeted amount while expenditures sub-
stantially exceeded the budgeted amounts. As a result, government borrowing
from the domestic banking system increased from 1.9Z of CDP in FY84 to 3.9%
of CDP. Reflecting largely the sharp drop in public savings, national
savings fell from 12.8% to 11.2% of CNP. Although the innediate growth
prospects are good, budgetary and balance of payments developments will need
to be carefully watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports declined
by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered the effects
of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6% in FY85. According
1I/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report No.P-4025-PAK (Fifth Telecommunications Project) dated
June 19, 1986.



-2-
to recent projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remit-
tances will be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$960
million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$1.2
billion at the end of PY85, which was equivalent to 2 months of imports of
goods and services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the economy,
initiated vn 1980, was completed in July 19B5. All transactions are now
based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing
interest-based commitments have been honored and transactions with foreign
governments and financial institutions are not affected. It is too early to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Uudoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially involve some
costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how
the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously,
and new financing modes have been applied flexibly and developments monitored
closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth ratio achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan was consistent
with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2%), manufactur-
ing (10.4Z), exports (11%), and private investment (6.7%), though below Sixth
Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number of
adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistao crisis with its attendant
expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP respectively, feLl to
6.42 and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government borrowing from banks
dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained, the growth of the money
supply slowed down and inflationary pressures lessened; inflation dropped
from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance
was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue
performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social
services barely kept pace with population growth, and development expendi-
tures declined relative to GDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16%
of GDP, and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8Z of GNP, dropped to 1.6Z by FY83. Assisted by remittances,
but also strong export growtht the current account deficit fell from 5% of
GNP to 2% by the end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5
to 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.



-3-
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Covernment took measures to improve performance in
the co-mdity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were incFeased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incpntives, private manufactur-
ing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private sector
were widened, most agricultural processing units were denationalized, and
sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adapted in
1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured exports, while import
liberalization increased the availability of raw materials and capital goods.
In energy, measures were taken to accelerate the development of domestic
resources, rationalize prices, and improve policy formulation and energy
pLanning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcoaqe
steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must be
introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan
is to sustain high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social
base. The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind those
of other developing countries at comparable levels of development. It will
not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent allocations
without a major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although Pakistan
should give priority to reforming indirect taxation through a broad-based
sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges, should curtail
subsidies, and increase self-financing by public enterprises. Given the
continuing constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be
improved, structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and
industry have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree
of efficient import substitution.  In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by those of
progressive farmers within Pakistan. Beforc agricultural productivity and



-4-
diversification can be increased, institutional support must be strengthened,
appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the core investment
program identified and implemented. More effective institutional support
should be sought through improvements in the quality and quantity of services
to farmers. In particular, strengthening the seed program requires more
efficient seed multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in
public sector plants, and a greater role for the private sector. The
delivery of agricultural credit also needs to be improved to ensure that it
actually reaches small farmers and tenants, whose credit needs are greatedt.
Furthermore, marketing costs need to be reduced and research and extension
services strengthened. Agricultural pricing policies shouLd create
appropriate incentives to farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop
approaches to pricing should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production
approach currently used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture
and water is needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment
priorities. Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized
along with critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity.
Creater emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially
between agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to
programs that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment
the supply of physical infrastructure.
II.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by rapid
expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a number of
issues the Government must address if this performance is to be sustained.
High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality domestic produc-
tion both by raising input prices and by reducing the demand for new technol-
ogy to raise productivity and improve product quality. If Pakistan is to
increase and diversify its manufactured export base and encourage efficient
import substitution, industrial incentives must be rationalized to reduce
both the level and dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective
here is to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-
export bias inherent in the present incentives. In addition, the Government
should reform the regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus
pricing in order to improve competition among domestic firms. It should
limit sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most
investment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of
key private and public manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiently, should be
replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand
conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operational
efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be and are being addressed in the energy sector
pertain to three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing;
(c) institutional strengthening. In the power subsector, the Covernment has
formulated a least-cost development plan for the period 1986-2005 and has



-5-
outlined a core investment program of Rs 30 billion consisting of high
priority projects to be implemented during FY86 to FY88. Given the
Likelihood-of domestic resource constraints and persistent power shortages,
the Government is aluo undertaking a number of measures including tariff
increases to ensure that a large portion of this investment program would be
financed from WAPDA's self-generated resources. The gas producer pricing
formula for new discoveries has been adjusted to provide adequate incentives
to attract private sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept
artificially low to encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil,
relative prices became distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982,
the Covernment policy has been to progressively increase consumer prices of
gas in order to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget
increased the average gas price by over 50Z. Assisted by domestic price
increases and lower international prices for fuel oil, the Government's
target has been realized. The Government should continue the policy of
gradually adjusting gas prices with a view to reaching full parity as early
as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below the long-run
marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure
the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but also
to mobilize the substantial additional funds required by the power investment
program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing the autonomy of
public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their efficiency and
should continue to strengthen energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures, and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation, and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan have been
8.5% lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic
resources. Although not very large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls
have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy,
health, and agriculture have received considerably lower allocations than
called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined core investment
program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large
number of projects within a sector; thus too many projects have been
initiated, and projects that should receive priority are underfunded. To
address this issue, the Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority
Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adop-
tion of a rolling medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and
priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable.
The program will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be
given priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved



-6-
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and comer-
cial borrowing. At the end of 19851 Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undiabursed pipeline) stood at U9$10.7 billion, of which US$6.9
billion was owed to bilateral member. of the Pakistan consortium, US$3.0
billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other bilateral and
private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 16.2%, and in external debt service it was
8.0. According to Bank projections, if recent policy improvements are
sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service will
remain about 202 during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher
levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of September 30, 1986, the cumuLative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$4.5
billion, and IFC's investments totalled US$243.0 million. (Annex I contains
a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 25-year period, in a major program of works to
develep the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30Z of total
Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation;
28% for industry, including import program credits; lBX for transport,
telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for energy, including
power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5X for social programs in education,
population, and urban development; and 5% for structural adjustment lending
and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is primarily to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the struc-
tural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from adjustment
are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the strategy also
includes investments in physical infrastructure and the social sectors
(education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in Pakistan's develop-
ment efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of traditional
instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed--from sector work and
active policy dialogue, to policy- and project-based lending, technical
assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises
two components, the larger of which supports specific high-priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonetheless strategic component focuses on policy reforms in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-
quality economic and sector work. The program includes a series of technical
assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for
policy reform. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum,



-7-
the lank Croup tries to foster greater understanding on the part of
Consortium members of thu Government's structural adjustment program and aid
requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness oftother official aid and help
attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessionaL sources.
lB.     Historically, the Bank Group has pLaced special emphasis on lending
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The Bank and
the Covernment have agreed that the main objective of the agricultural
strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase
agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of the
irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. AMong the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-atestation projects and
projects with a longer-term focus, rationalizat;n df input and output
prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged
from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, and extension and
have included institution-building components. Overall, progress in agricul-
ture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has been
designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to promot-
ing export expansion and import substitution. Issues being addressed
include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation, efficiency of public
enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in the credit delivery
system. Lines of credit extended to development finance institutions and
other financial intermediaries have been mainly for the private sector.
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. IFC's investments in 18
Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans (US$231.7 million) and equity
participation (US$11.3 million). Although individual operations have
generally achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial reform
remains formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program in
energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand the
domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase the
efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation, and other
methods of managing demand. No less central have been the efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank has helped
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) to finance their power generation and transmis-
sion programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under the
Indus Basin DeveLopment Program, in which the Bank played a leadership role,
has also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector strategy. In oil



-8-
and gas, the Bank has financed a mound exploration and development program
and har amaisted in developing the extensive gas transmission system.
Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering studies and technical I
asmistance, have been undertaken to support coal exploration, onergy audit.,
and oil refining.  Despite much progreas, however, the Bank will need to
continue participating in institution building and help the Government mobi-
lime adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and
greater ptivate sector participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications ham focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutiono respon-
sible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure is now con-
sidered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large measure because
infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance between new investments
and the efficient operation and maintenance of existing investments needs
greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth rate
of about 3.lZ and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally formidable
development agenda in the social sector. The Bank has supported the
Covernment' s programs in education through five credits designed to upgrade
primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and agricultural education as
well as middle-Level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension
agents. The focus has been and will continue to be on the lower end of the
education spectrum. A first population project designed to expand the demand
for population control services was approved in FY83. Furthermore, the Bank
has financed four projects in the urban and water supply sector. Besides
providing urban services, these operations are designed to improve local
resource mobilization and cost recovery; planning and efficiency of resource
utilization; and urban management, especially at the provincial and municipal
levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan (ESL) mentioned in para. 20. The SAL
program introduced a number of significant reforms in government development
planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and
industrial sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of
FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL
supports the Covernment reform program for the energy sector and assists in
the implementation of a core investment program for the sector. Continuing
support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned under other
sector loans in the next few years.
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects have
experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures for
project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the



-9-
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to budgetary
constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and conservation;
oil and gas exploration and development; coal development; lines of credit
for industrial financing for the private sector, and for industrial subsector
restructuring, balancing, and modernization; irrigationldrainage, and
agricultural inputs and services; highway construction and maintenance;
primary and informal education; urban development and water supply. Sector
loans that would support further structural adjustment in industry, agricul-
ture and transportation are being discussed with the Government. Where
successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those
sectors. To help the Government finance agricultural and other high-priority
projects having low foreign exchange component, the Bank Group is financing
some local expenditures on a case-by-ease basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on development
strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the three
key sectors, and the development of the physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Technical Assistance in Pakistan
27.     The Government is the primary user of technical assistance, and
utilizes a wide variety of assistance for ongoing programs, projects, studies
and institution building. Specifically within the Government, the Ministry
of Planning and Development is the focal point of policy based technical
assistance with other technical/line ministries the major users of project
technical assistance. Pakistan's technical assistance needs include
primarily short-term, specialized consultants to supplement domestic exper-
tise or to meet the shortage of particular skills. The domestic consulting
industry, both public and private, is fairly well developed and is strongest
in the engineering, architecture, agriculture and water sectors; however,
there are weaknesses in the economic analysis, policy analysis and design,
and management areas. The domestic consulting industry continues to be
supplemented by outside expertise, particularly in its weaker areas, which
can be built up through a transfer of skills. In addition, there is a need
to build up within the Government the capacity to periodically conduct policy
reviews and to derive recommendations for policy reform. This would enable
the Government to sustain the momentum of ongoing reforms while reducing the
level of external assistance in the area of policy review and reform.



-10-
28.     A number of donors have provided, and continue to provide, technical
assistance to Pakistan. Bilateral donors, notably the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), provide grant funds for the preparation and
Implementation of projects in bilateral aid programs. Among multilateraL
donors, the United Nations Development Programe's (UNDP) Fourth Country
Program for 1987-91 amounting to US$75 million, is the largest. UNDP assis-
tance is directed towards financing studies and institution building programs
to improve the Government's ability to prepare and impLement its public
investment program. Asian Development Bank (ADB) financed technical assis-
tance is directly executed by ADB and focus on project preparation and/or
feasibility studies. IBRD/IDA a4sistance includes project-based technical
assistance for the preparation, design and evaluation of development
projects, institution building, and support for project management and
impLementation. Two IDA Technical Assistance Projects (Crs. 1256-PAK and
1480-PAK) for US$7 million each, designed to assist in the preparation and
implementation of policy reform programs, were approved in 1982 and 1984
respectively.
IDA Technical Assistance Projects
29.     A First Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1256-PAK) was designed to
support the Government in the implementation of its structural adjustment
program as outlined under the Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2166-PAR/Cr.
1255-PAK).   The Project financed studies and specialized consultancies for
the preparation and execution of policy reform programs, assisted the
Government in the development of the strategy and policy framework for the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-FY88), and supported institution building and
project preparation activities. Policy related studies included: (a) a study
for setting up of a Public Enterprise Signalling System (a performance
monitoring, evaluation and incentive system for public manufacturing
enterprises); (b) a study on Effective Protection, the second phase of which
is being continued through a study on Industrial Efficiency Improvements and
Development Strategy (financed under the Second Technical Assistance Project
- Cr. 1480-PAK) to design reform and restructuring plans for selected
industrial subsectors; (c) a study to review existing Government procedures
for the approval of development projects and recommend proposals for a
simplification of procedures and a reduction in documentation; and (d) a
number of studies an operation and maintenance expenditures, user charges and
cost recovery in education, health and transport that addressed resource
mobilization issues. Selected components that provided inputs for the
preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan included studies on a number of
industrial subsectors (fertilizer, textiles, engineering, marine and leather
products). Support has been provided over a four year period for the
institutional strengthening of the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM)
through annual staff training, consultants, and selected equipment, to enable
APCOM to prepare price policy recommendations for major agricultural outputs
and inputs on a timely and systematic basis. A number of project preparation
studies (cement, industrial capacity utilization, urban development, national



-11-
power planning, petroleum infrastructure, and reservoir studies for iden-
tified gas fields) addressed policy issues related to the Government's sub-
sectoral strategy and Bank lending operations, and provided support for
project preparation activities in the less developed provinces - North West
Frontier and Baluchistan, and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas. The
project has largely met its objectives and has proven to be an effective use
of IDA resources in support of the Government's policy reform programs.
30.     Responding to the Government's subsequent development objectives and
priorities, about 25% of Bank assistance is being provided through sector
loans to support the Government's policy adjustment programs in agriculture,
industry and energy. A Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1480-PAK)
was processed in support of this Government strategy, once the first credit
(Cr. 1256-PAK) was fully allocated. The project provided support for the
preparation and execution of sector policy reforms, improvements in national
economic planning, public enterprise management and efficiency, and project
preparation. Policy design and reform programs under the ongoing Energy
Sector and Export Development Loans are being supported through studies in
energy (energy conservation, restructuring of coal mining industry) and
industry (industrial efficiency and development strategy). National planning
capabilities have been enhanced through the provision of computer hardware,
software and training to the Government's Planning and Development Division,
for the development of a computerized system to effectively monitor the
preparation, execution and evaluation of development projects, and construc-
tion of a macro-economic model for long-term economic forecasting. The
project provides continued support for programs to strengthen the Signalling
System (paragraph 29) for public manufacturing enterprises through a study to
develop long-term corporate plans for these enterprises. Studies related to
the design of restructuring plans for large, public sector engineering units,
and the development of project profiles for mineral-based industries in North
West Frontier Province would assist in the preparation of a pipeline of
projects for possible Bank and other donor financing. The project continues
to meet its objectives, and recommendations of studies related to the
Government's reform programs are being implemented.
31.     The effectiveness of Bank supported technical assistance has not been
uniform. With some exceptions, those technical assistance inputs were less
effective which were "requirements" of approved project lending operations,
conducted on the basis of "negotiated" terms of reference and were carried
out with inadequate direct staff participation or supervision. The most
useful results have been achieved when the output from studies or research
reflected a consensus between Government officials and Bank staff, was
delivered quickly to the Government, and followed up in the course of the
Government-Bank policy dialogue and the preparation of policy and project-
based lending operations.  The Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2166-PAK/Cr.
1255-PAK) and subsequent sector loans (Energy Sector .oan - Ln. 2552-PAK;
Export Development Loan - Ln. 2701-PAR) have ensured that recommendations of
technical assistance inputs were reviewed by the Government at senior levels
and agreements reached on the appropriateness of recommendations and



-12-
feasibility for implementation, paving the way for direct policy actions by
the Government. The proposed project would continue this practice by main-
taining cLose coordination between the recommendations of individual
subprojects, the policy dialogue and support for the Government's policy
reform programs through proposed sector lending.
32.     The Government and the Bank have gained considerable experience from
the implementation of ongoing technical assistance projects. Project design
has been sound, as demonstrated by the success in meeting project objectives.
Implementation and management initially were problem areas as the Government,
though committed to the objectives of the projects, failed to provide ade-
quate and qualified staff to the project implementation unit, the Technical
Assistance Project Cell (TAPC). As a result, both projects experienced major
implementation delays, leading to slow disbursements and lack of compliance
with reporting and auditing covenants. Up to June 30, 1985 onLy US$1.8
million was disbursed under the First Technical Assistance Project (as
opposed to appraisal estimates of US$6.5 million) and no progress reports on
the status of project componLents or audit reports covering expenditures under
the projects were submitted to IDA. Once the Government addressed the staff-
ing issue and the staff assigned to TAPC gained the relevant experience,
combined with action to simplify project processing procedures and to estab-
lish Special Accounts for both projects, management and implementation per-
formance improved dramatically, leading to a sharp increase in disbursements.
By September 30, 1986, disbursements stood at US$5.5 million and US$2.5
million under the First and Second Technical Assistance Projects,
respectively. Audit reports and quarterly progress reports are being sub-
mitted in a timely manner.
33.     As has been the Bank's experience in other countries, in Pakistan, a
period of about three years was necessary for an efficient and capable tech-
nical assistance management system to evolve in the form of the TAPC.
Recognition has been given to this development as well as to the experience
gained and lessons learned, and incorporated in designing the proposed
project. The proposed project would strengthen the TAPC to ensure continuity
in project management capabilities (paragraphs 50 and 51). Use of existing
subproject processing procedures and familiarity with the use of Special
Accounts would assist in faster disbursements under the proposed project.
Project management and administration would also be simplified through the
use of subproject eligibility criteria (paragraph 40). These criteria would
ensure that IDA technical assistance maintains a strong poLicy focus, with
other donors financing Pakistan's remaining technical assistance needs,
relating primarily to project preparation, feasibility studies and investment
programming. IDA technical assistance projects are being supervised by the
Bank's Resident Mission in Pakistan with necessary support from Headquarters
divisions. This structure has led to a close working relationship and under-
standing between the Government and the Bank, and contributed to the effec-
tive solution of implementation problems and issues, as well as ensuring
adequate follow-up, particularly on the recommendations of studies. The



-13-
above developments and actions would facilitate strong management and smooth
implementation of the proposed project.
Bank Group Technical Assistance Strategy and Role
34.     The Government is endeavoring to maintain the momentum of its
programs for structural reform in key sectors and subsectors of the economy,
within an environment of sound economic management. The Bank has supported,
and continues to support, these Government objectives through an ongoing
dialogue on key policy issues and lending operations, including technical
assistance projects. The latter are very flexible financing instruments
that, given Government execution of the projects, can be directed quickly
towards the financing of subprojects within the Government's priorities. The
projects act as a link between the Government's own analytical work and the
Bank's economic and sector work that in turn forms the basis for discussions
on key policy issues in Pakistan. The Government views Bank assistance as
unique in that it provides maximum flexibility in the choice of expertise
vis-a-vis other sources of funding while simultaneously ensuring objectivity.
Bank technical assistance projects thus play a direct role in support of
Pakistan's development objectives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The proposed project would be the third IDA-assisted technical assis-
tance operation designed to support the Government's ongoing programs for
improved macro-economic management and policy reform. The Technical
Assistance Project Cell (TAPC) of the Ministry of Planning and Development
initiated preparation of the project in December 1985 and an IDA mission in
March 1986 assisted in completing preparation.
36.     The proposed project was appraised in September 1986.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from November 18 to 21, 1986; the Pakistan
delegation was led by Mr. Aftab Ahmed Khan, Joint Secretary, Economic Affairs
Division. There is no Staff Appraisal Report. Supplementary data on the
project are contained in Annex II. Annex III outlines the procedures for
implementing, monitoring and supervising the proposed project. Annex IV
contains the Key Project Activities. Detailed cost estimates are set out in
Annex V.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
37.     IDA technical assistance projects provide direct support for the
Government's ongoing policy reform programs. Through the joint implementa-
tion of selected studies and programs, the projects have in the past promoted
borrower participation and built up support for the formulation and implemen-
tation of individual reform proposals. However, there continues to be an
agenda of reforms in prioricy areas and sectors that is being addressed on
a continuing basis by the Government. IDA support, through the financing of



-14-
technical assistance to review key policy issues and to derive specific
reform proposals and programs would critically determine the pace of, and the
Government's willingness to implement, far reaching policy reforms. IDA
technical assistance projects have proved to be highly effective and flexible
financing instruments that could be directed quickly towards: (a) prepara-
tion and implementation of policy reform programs; (b) institution building
in areas and sectors identified by the Government and the Bank as having high
priority; and (c) project preparation activities, notably studies to address
policy issues related to the processing and content of proposed Bank-assisted
projects.
38.     In contrast, technical assistance programs of other donors (bilateral
and multilateral) are generally directed towards prefeasibility studies and
institution building, with little or no emphasis on the policy reform process
in Pakistan. The Fourth Country Program (1987-91) of UNDP is designed to
improve the effectiveness of the public sector investment program through
support for the preparation of master plans or prefeasibility studies; tech-
nical support for the implementation of specific investment programs;
strengthening of development institutions; and the development of human
resources through training and institution building. -An assessment of
Pakistan's overall technical assistance requirements, the technical assis-
tance programs of major donors, and the type of assistance provided by them
indicates that support for the preparation and execution of policy reforms is
not available from other sources. The First Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 1256-PAK) closed on December 31, 1986, while all available funds under
the Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1480-PAR) have been committed.
Therefore, it is important that the Government's ongoing commitment to reform
programs be supported through continued IDA involvement in the financing of
necessary technical assistance.
Project Objectives
39.     The proposed project would support the Government in formulating and
implementing structural and policy reform programs in key sectors and subsec-
tors of the economy and in maintaining an environment of sound macro-economic
management. A related objective would be the development of an institutional
capacity to design and implement policy reforms on a permanent basis. A
predominant portion (about 801) of credit proceeds would be used for sub-
projects reflecting a strong policy focus that would assist the Government's
own activities and programs.
Project Description
40.     The project would finance: (a) studies; (b) specialized
consultancies; (c) training; and (d) equipment. Within the framework of the
Government's economic development objectives, strategy, programs and
policies, the following eligibility criteria have been jointly developed that
would be used for selecting subprojects to be financed under the project:



-15-
(i) assist the Government in macro-economic management;
(ii) review the policy framework (macro, sectoral, subsectoral) and the
process of policy reform;
(iii) identify specific policy reform measures in priority areas (e.g.
resource mobilization) and oectors (agriculture, industry, energy,
transport, education and urban) and analyze the probable impact of
such policy reform measures;
(iv) design strategies, programs or schedules for the implementation of
policy reform measures.
41.     Subprojects would have to meet at least one of the above eligibility
criteria. A list of subprojects consistent with the eligibility criteria has
been identified (Annex IV); a portion of credit proceeds (30%) has been left
unallocated for financing subprojects to be identified during project
implementation. In support of Government efforts to develop institutional
capacities to design, evaluate and implement policy reforms on a permanent
basis, provisions for training (through formal training courses and
seminars), in selected subprojects would transfer the specialized skills to
the staff of the counterpart agencies, departments and ministries in
Pakistan. Terms of reference and contracts for studies and consultancies,
and specifications and bidding documents for the procurement of equipment
would explicitly provide for such training. The terms of r:ference for
subprojects to be implemented in the first year of the project have been
reviewed with the Government and cleared for processing. The consultant's
proposals for these subprojects would be evaluated, consultants selected and
contracts negotiated as a condition of credit effectiveness. The proposed
project to be implemented over a five-year period includes the components
described in the following paragraphs.
42.     Macro-economic Management.  A key element in maintaining an environ-
ment of sound economic management in a period of reforms in Pakistan is the
continuation of improved macro-economic management. The Government's
priorities are: (a) strengthening medium-term planning and investment
programming capabilities and developing a policy framework conducive to
economic growth; (b) improving budgetary performance, through increased
resource mobilization, user charges/cost recovery and a reduction in
subsidies; (c) expanding and diversifying exports to improve the balance of
payments; (d) controlling inflation; and (e) encouraging a larger share of
the private sector in investment and development activities through improved
incentives. Subprojects would provide assistance to the Government in defin-
ing the strategy, medium-term investment plan and the nature and content of
structural and policy reforms to be implemented during the Seventh Five-Year
Plan (FY89-93), preparation of which is to be initiated by mid-1987 and the
Plan finalized by March 1988. A National Taxation Reform Commission (NTRC)
was established in 1985, to submit proposals for mobilizing additional
resources through a comprehensive program of tax reform. Assistance would be



-16-
provided for the design and implementation of reforms that would be recom-
mended by the NTRC. Other studies and specialized consultancies would
analyze related resource mobilization issues such as fiscal policy, savings
behavior, and Government borrowing strategies (domestic and foreign), and
make recommendations on strategies and policy reforms to be implemented
during the Seventh Plan period. Similarly, studies on exports and balance of
payments performance and on private foreign investment would develop
strategies and policies for export growth and to encourage foreign
investment. Equipment to upgrade the Planning and Development Division's
mainframe computer, to be financed under the proposed project, would include
computer hardware and software, and training for the staff of the Division's
Computer Section and end users in systems design and management and computer
use would be undertaken.
43.     Agriculture.  The Government's agricultural sector reform program
emphasizes:  a  progressively adjusting key agricultural input and output
prices, thereby phasing out input subsidies while providing adequate incen-
tives to farmers; (b) gradually transferring to the private sector activities
such as the distribution of key agricultural inputs and exploitation of
groundwater; (c) reorienting the public investment program towards high
priority activities; and (d) accelerating the transition from self-
sufficiency to export of major crops and promoting diversification. This
program recognizes that sustaining agricultural growth and realizing the
potential of the sector requires continued actions to implement sectoral
policy reforms.
44.     The Gover.-ient has recently established a National Commission on
Agriculture (NCA) to submit recommendations on a long-term strategy for the
sector. As part of the Bank's support for NCA's work program, the project
would finance a number of studies to: (a) review Pakistan's agricultural
performance during 1960-1985; (ii) analyze demand, supply and price prospects
for major agricultural products; (iii) examine existing practices and recom-
mend proposals for improving the process of agricultural price policy
formulation; and (iv) develop an agricultural model for the sector. Studies
to review the operations of the Rice and Cotton Export Corporations are
designed to lead to policy recommendations for enhancing the exports of these
key commodities. A study on the prospects for diversification of agricul-
tural production and exports would focus on the policy framework and the
institutional support necessary for enhancing output and yields of non-
traditional agricultural crops and products. The previous technical assis-
tance projects provided funds for consultants, staff training and equipment
for the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM) to assist APCOM in implement-
ing its work program. The proposed project would provide funds to APCOM for
acquiring computer hardware, staff training and specialized consultants,
enhancing its data base and enabling APCOM to play an even stronger role in
preparing comprehensive and timely price policy recommendations.
45.     Industry.  The Government is focussing an an industrial sector
strategy which comprises: (a) expanding the roLe of the private sector; (b)
maintaining a flexible exchange rate, initiating tariff rationalization



-17-
programs and liberalizing imports; (c) elimuinating unnecessary Covernment
controls (for which a National Deregulation Commission has been established);
and (d) improving the efficiency of public manufacturing enterprises. As
part of the ongoing Government program to improve the efficiency of public
manufacturing enterprises, a study on a strategic marketing system for these
enterprises would be implemented as part of the expansion of the Public
Enterprise Signalling System (paragraph 30). A number of studies relating to
the performance of the commercial banks and other financial institutions and
the effectiveness of the financial system in credit delivery for industrial
investments would be undertaken as a part of the policy package being sup-
ported by the ongoing Second IndustriaL Investment Credit (Ln. 2648-PAK/
Cr. 1646-PAK). Support would also be provided to the Central Board of
Revenue (CBR) to acquire computer hardware and software as part of the work
program agreed under the ongoing Export Development Loan (Ln. 2701-PAK) to
enable CBR to derive input-output coefficients for improving and periodically
updating the system of standard rebates, introducing an "open-bonded"
manufacturing system, and extending access to duty or tax-free imports to
indirect as well as direct exporters. Training of computer professionals and
end-users in designing and implementing the proposed systems would be
undertaken.
46.     Energy.  The Government has developed a sectoral development and
reform program which is being supported by the ongoing Energy Sector Loan
(Ln. 2552-PAK). This energy sector program addresses issues in three key
areas: (a) investment programming; Cb) resource mobilization; and (c)
institutional development. To provide the analytical basis for undertaking
further improvements in these key areas, the Government is conducting a
number of studies on least-cost system development, and the power tariff
structure. The Government has requested that a portion of credit proceeds be
left unallocated to finance subprojects in the energy sector, consistent with
the eligibility criteria. The subprojects would be identified during
preparation of the proposed Second Energy Sector Loan and other lending
operations supporting the implementation of the Government's policy reform
and investment programs.
47.     Transport.  The Government, with Bank assistance, is in the process
of formulating a transport sector strategy and reform program which seeks:
(a) improved intermodal planning and investment; (b) efficient pricing
(levels and structures); (c) a regulatory code across the transport sector;
and (d) institutional reforms. A proposed Fourth Highways Project and a
proposed Transport Sector Loan are being designed to support a package of
policy reforms and investment programs in the sector. A number of studies
focussing on critical policy issues have been identified, including a study
on the retail pricing of petroleum products. A study on provincial road
maintenance would focus on the operation and maintenance (O&H) procedures and
policies of the provincial governments and derive recommendations for
improved O&M policies at the provincial level. A study on the trucking
industry would build upon recent work by the National Transport Research



-18-
Center, examine existing policies and regulations for the local assembly and
manufacture of trucks, analyze the effect of guidelines regarding deletion
programs and progressive local manufacture on the choice of technology and
efficiency of the local industry, and derive recommendations for improving
existing policy guidelines.
48.     Education.  The Government's major objectives are to: (a) expand and
improve significantly the primary and secondary system, particularly for
girls and in rural areas; (b) expand infrastructure, provide more teaching
staff, and better supervision systems, teacher training and teaching
materials; and (c) improve the inefficient higher education system through
improving the quality of instruction, tailoring training to the requirements
of the labor market and limiting the amount of resources to be channeled to
higher educational institutions. The Government has formulated an ambitious
development program in the education sector, presented in the Sixth Plan
(FY84-88) and in the Five-Point Economic Program. Its objective is to
strengthen and improve the quality of Pakistan's exceptionally weak basic
education system which has insufficient outreach, resulting in low levels of
enrollment, and provides poor quality education. With an overall literacy
rate of only 24%, a female literacy rate oft 6 in rural areas and with hardly
49% of primary school children enrolled in primary schools, Pakistan main-
tains some of the lowest educational indicators in the world. Progress in
the country's basic education system has become a prominent theme in
Pakistan's political agenda and as a result substantially increased financial
allocations have recently been made. in support of this Government agenda
the Bank is placing significant emphasis on the education sector in the
policy dialogue and proposing a substantial increase in lending for
education. A study would be financed to develop a least cost maximum output
strategy to be implemented in primary education, identifying input-output
relationships and define critical inputs for maximizing educational output at
the primary level. The study is intended to provide an input towards the
formulation of the primary education strategy in Pakistan.
49.     Urban.  The Government is seeking to: (a) improve urban and provin-
cial agencies' capabilities in planning and operating urban infrastructural
facilities and services, coupled with increased cost recovery; and (b) iden-
tify and test new approaches to the provision of urban services, with par-
ticular regard to the needs of the urban poor. A study would be financed to
review existing legislation for land acquisition, and the policies pursued by
public sector agencies regarding land development and sale, and recommend
proposals for improved policy and a greater role for the private sector in
urban land development. A study to review existing information and analysis
on the provision of urban transport services would emphasize private sector
participation.
Project Implementation
50.     The proposed project would be managed and implemented by the
Technical Assistance Project Cell (TAPC) located in the International



-19-
Economics Section of the Ministry of Planning and Development. The
International Economics Section is the coordinator of the Government's
dialogue with the Bank on key policy issues and reform programs. Therefore,
the TAPC is effectively located for managing and implementing IDA technical
assistance projects. TAPC as presently located has evolved into a strong
technical assistance management and implementation unit. The TAPC is ade-
quately staffed and currently consists of a Project Director, a Deputy
Secretary (Administration and Accounts), Assistant Chief (Technical), Section
Officer, Research Officer, Accountant, and other support staff. The
Government would maintain TAPC at its current location and continue to ade-
quately staff it with qualified personnel.
51.     Subprojects to be financed under the project would be reviewed by
TAPC and comments by the relevant Ministries and/or sections of the Ministry
of Planning and Development would be incorporated, thereby ensuring adequate
technical input. Procedures for "Coordination, Implementation and
Supervision of Technical Asr stance Projects" followed in the implementation
of the previous projects would be retained for the proposed project
(Annex III). An evaluation of the First Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 1256-PAK) is being financed under the Second Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1480-PAR). The recommendations of this evaluation regarding
project design and execution would be jointly reviewed and modifications in
project management and implementation affected as necesbery. During project
implementation: (a) the eligibility criteria (paragraph 40) would be applied
in identifying subprojects for financing under the project; (b) the
Government's commitment to individual subprojects would be established
through a periodic exchange of views and reviews on the objectives of
subprojects, the structural and policy reform measures arising from the
subprojects and the respective implementation schedules; and (c) selected
subprojects would be jointly reviewed by the Government and IDA at least once
during implementation of the subproject, and comments arising from these
reviews would be incorporated by the Government.
Project Costs and Financing
52.     Total project costs are estimated at US$8.5 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$5.9 million. Price contingencies for consultants,
equipment and related training are based on annual rates of 3% in 1987 and 1%
in 1988 and thereefter. Casts are based on mid-1986 prices. The proposed
Credit of US$7.0 million equivalent would finance the cost of studies,
consuLtants, training and equipmen-. The executing agencies would meet the
cost of counterpart staff, office facilities and other support services
estimated to cost US$1.5 million. Disaggregated cost estimates are contained
in Annex V.
53.     To ensure that project activities are carried out expeditiously, a
Special Account would be established by the Government at the National Bank
of Pakistan and operated by the TAPC in accordance with existing Government
procedures which are acceptable to IDA.



-20-
Procurement
54.     The equipment for upgrading the Planning and Development Division's
mainframe computer estimated at US$0.75 million would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICe). Other contracts for equipment would
not be of a sufficient size to attract foreign suppliers under ICB and would
be procured using prudent shopping procedures acceptable to the IDA. The
aggregate value of items to be procured using local shopping is estimated not
to exceed US$0.65. Specialist consultant services estimated at US$0.8 mil-
lion and studies to be contracted estimated at US$4.8 million wvuld be
obtained in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Ttrms
of reference, bidding documents and contracts for selected studies and
consultancies, and for procurement of equipment, would include training
costs. All procurement proposals would be subject to prior review by IDA and
would include (where appropriate) detailed breakdowns of expenditures.
Disbursement
55.     The Credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) studiesp consultant
services and training: 100% of total expenditures; and (b) equipment: 100%
of foreign or local ex-factory expenditures or 75Z of expenditures of locally
procured goods. Disbursements against all items would be fully documented,
and are expected to be completed in 52 months.
Reporting, Accounts and Auditing
56.     Quarterly and annual progress reports covering activities under the
proposed project would be submitted by TAPC to IDA in accordance with exist-
ing procedures. In addition, progress reports, preliminary and draft-final
reports on specific subprojects prepared by the consultants or executing
agencies would be forwarded to IDA for review. The Government would: (a)
submit to IDA in an agreed format, quarterly progress reports on the status
of all subprojects and annual reports on the overall progress of the project,
including the fulfillment of project objectives; and (b) conduct jointly with
IDA, mid-term reviews of selected subprojects and incorporate comments aris-
ing from these reviews. Consolidated project accounts for all expenditures
financed under the project, including those for the Special Account, would be
maintained by TAPC.  These accounts and supporting records would be audited
annually by auditors acceptable to IDA and satisfactory audit reports sub-
mitted to IDA within six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.     The proposed project would benefit Pakistan by strengthening manage-
ment of the economy and improve the prospects for sustained economic growth
through the effective design and implementation of policy reform programs.
This would assist the Government in achieving its short- and medium-term
economic objectives.  Through the joint execution of subprojects, the



-21-
proposed project would contribute to a better understanding of Pakistan's
current policy framework and the process of policy reform, and promote bor-
rower awareness of and support for the implementation of economic reforms.
The proposed project would also contribute towards strengthening of domestic
capabilities (both within and outside the Covernment) to develop, evaluate
and implement programs for policy reform. The relatively large number of
subprojects to be financed under the project entails some risks, particularly
regarding the adequacy of supervision of studies. Successful project
implementation would require a substantial and continued supervisory input of
Bank staff as well as the input and commitment of the Government's manageriaL
and other staff. AdditionaLly, there is the possibility that the Covernment
may not implement some reform proposals, or may proceed more slowly than
desirable in implementing reforms in priority areas and sectors. To minimize
project implementation risks, the lessons learned and considerable experience
gained during the execution of the previous projects have been utilized in
designing the proposed project. Modifications would be incorporated during
implementation of the proposed project based on the evaluation of the First
TechnicaL Assistance Project (paragraph 51). These measures together with
the Government's experience in managing and implementing the two previous
projects and commitment to the objectives of various subprojects would ensure
that implementation risks are minimized.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive
Direczors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
December 22, 1986



-22-
r,"* X
SITATU                        ONINK C   OP  tATIDUIN PAXISAN
A.  ERANfh  01 IL WANEILID ItlA 01IDIt  ..t   mt amber 30. 19111 A & Lk
(PUS million)
Loan"                                                    ( JUnt net of Cosnosl2iat lne
Credit    flaeol                                                                 Undis-
Euhka  _Jz   hurmng                                       Ilt    iu              kurA
lOh loan. and credit. fully dimbutead                    121.7   1I265.6
754       197t    Wlinity Control 6 Reelatlon             --          70.0         65.0
677        1979   salinity Control & Decl. (Harden)    --             10.0         45.2
974       1960   Third Highway                            --          50.0          7.2
1109k    1981   Vocational Tralning                       --          25.0          7.0
11i7      1 141   arain strases                                       32.0         64.7
1158Lp,   1981   Agricultural Research                    --          24.0         13.4
1186kL   1982   Induetrial Drvelopment (TDBP II)          --          30.0          2.1
2122      1982   fourth Talaco.uicnieon                   40.0        --            3.0
2172      1,82   rcrtiliser Tndustry Rehebilitation   38.5            --           16.1
2247      1983   Reservoir Heintonance Pacilitisa         10.2        --            9.1
2305      1983   Agricultural Dew. (ADLU  V)              10.0        --            2.1
2324      1983   fifth lul Northern Coa FPtplinen         43.0        *-           29.6
1239f;   1982   Irrigation Uypton. Uchbbilitation    --               40.0         17.0
1243      1982   loluchiaten Minor Irrig. 6 Agr.          --          14.0         11.8
12365L    1982   TechnIal ALuminaneo                      --           7.           I.6
1348      1983   Lahore Urban Development                             Ib.0         16.3
1330lS    1983   Population                                            11.0        14.3
13551s    1983   Coal Engineering                         --           7.0          6.3
1374f     1983   Kerachi Water Supply                     --          25.0         18.7
1375k    1983   fourth Drainage                           --          65.0         68.0
1380kL   1183   Agricultural Dwelopment (ADUP VI    --                47.8          2.5
2218      1933   Ref inery Egineering Project             12.0        --            7.9
2351      1984   Petrolous hrploration                    51.5        --           32.0
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil end CGa  Development  30.0           --           15.2
2380      1984   tnduatrial tnveotmeot Credit             50.0        --           32.0
1439k    1984  tIduetrial lInvestment Credit              -           50.0         26.9
146l1j,   1986   tntegrated Hill Farming Development  --              22.0         21.7
1480t_,   1984   Second Technical Aaaistance              --           7.0          5.7
147LE     1986   Comanad Water Henaement                  --          46.5         46.2
1499°f    1984   Second Small Ikdkstrisa                  --          50.0         35.1
1532      1985   Left bank Outtall Drain - Stage I    --             150.0        175.3
1533k    1985   Daluchican Jlgricultural extenaion   --                8.3          9.0
2499      1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                       00.0        --          200.0
3602L    1985   Second Priary Education                   --          52.5         60.5
16031e    1985   Second On-Fare Vater mnagement           --          34.5         38.2
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loan                      175.0        --          164.1
2553      1985   Petroleum Reaoureem Joint Venture    55.0            --           31.7
2556      1985   Fifth WAPDA Power                       100.0        --          100.0
2646k    1986   Industrial  nwveatment Credit            148.0                    148.0
lb461     1986   Induetrial Investment Credit                          2.0          2.4
1652k&   19846   arachi Special Development                           70.0         74.5
1670k1   1986   Second Vocational Training                --          40.2         44.4
1693fA    1986   SCARP Transition Pilot                   --          10.0         10.6
1699j4    1986   Agric. Dev. lank of Pakiutan VI          --          55.0         57.8
2693      1986   Agric. Dev. lank of Pakiatan V1         165.0        --          165.0
2698k    1986   got Addu Cembined Cycle                   90.0        --           90.0
2701      1986   Export Development                       70.0        --           70.0
2743Lg    1987   Telecoiunicationa V                   A.QR           --          100 0
Total                                                  212.9    2.393.4       2,040.4
of which bha  been repaid                              332 0     .5150
Total now outstanding                                  1.580.9    2.338.4
Amount sold                   30.0
of wbich has been repaid    21                           4.2
Total now held by ank and IDA:                         15LL 27J3L4
Total undiabursed                                      1116J 5       923I9 LI     040L 4
k  The etatus of the projects liated in Part A is described in a separete report
on all Dank/IDA financial projects in execution, which ie updated tvice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directora on April 30 and October 31.
Lk  xceludea the disbursed portion of lone and credite wholly or pertly for pro-
jects in the ftroer taut Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
rs IDA Credita under the 6th and 7th tepleniabmente are denominted in SDRs.  The
principal ant non-effective Credits are shown in U8$ equivalent at the tinst of
negotiatione. Diabursed mounta are computed at the exchange rate applicable
an the tronaectior detes. Undiabureed mounts are valued at the exchange rate
applicable on the date of thie statement.
I Not yet effective.



-23-
Page 2
B.  STATEME   OP IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sentember 30.1986)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In 0S$   Million
kear    Oblitor                TYDC of Business      Loan   Eauitv    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adimjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing              --     0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70      -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos               Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals      103.31    1.56    104.87
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.        5.49    0.37       5.86
1986     Mari Gas               Chemicals and
Petrochemicals       45.77      _       45.77
Total Gross Commitments                   231.72   11.32    243.04
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               163.46    0.38    163.84
Total Commitments Nov Held by IFC          68.26   1l.94       79.20
Undisbursed (including participants)       41.98    0,32      42.30



-24-
ANNEX II
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Six months
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
Technical Assistance Project Cell,
Ministry of Planning and Development
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and first
IDA mission to consider the project:
October 1985; March 1986
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
August 30, 1986
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 21, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
February 1987
Section II:     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
The following would be an additional condition of effectiveness:
(a) the Government to evaluate consultant's proposals for
subprojects to be implemented during the first year
of the project, select consultants and negotiate
contracts (para 41).



-25-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procedures for Project Coordination,
Implementation and Supervision
1.      All subprojects such as studies, specialized consultancies, equipment
and training would be approved by IDA. Where details, with respect to a
specific activity, are not yet available, the Association would agree in
principle to the subproject based on a preliminary description subject to
later approval of detailed terms of reference, scope of work, implementation
schedule, cost estimates, consultant selection procedure and contract. Where
such an agreement in principle had been given, the activity can be
categorized as "identified" and a preliminary cost estimate attached to the
activity.
2.      Detailed information on subprojects would be presented as far as is
feasible in a standardized format.
3.      When the detaiLed subproject information is received it would be
reviewed and ultimately cleared by the Association. Depending on the size
and complexity of the subproject, this would be done by the Division directly
responsible for supervision (the Bank's Resident Mission in Pakistan, RMP) in
consultation with the relevant division/department at Headquarters (HQ)
responsible for the sector in question. Detailed information for subprojects
do not normally arrive currently. A record of the various approvals given,
e.g. terms of reference, invitation to bid, consultant evaluation/selection
and contract, should be kept on RHPs subproject file. When the invitation to
bid with terms of reference and evaluation criteria has been approved, the
subproject would be categorized as "approved" and the timetable for implemen-
tation would be put on the subproject fiLe. This timetable would be updated
monthly.
4.      Once consultant selection has been approved, the draft contract as
negotiated would be approved by IDA in accordance with existing procedures
for the review and approval of consultant contracts.
5.      Once the contract is signed the subproject would be categorized as
"committed". The revised cost estimate and a disbursement schedule based
on the contract would be entered on the file at this stage. Two copies (a
copy for the Legal Department and one for the Disbursements Division) of the
signed contract would be forwarded to IDA (RMP). A copy would also be sent
to the relevant HQ division where appropriate.



-26-
ANNEX IIr
Page 2 of 4
6.      Progress reports, preliminary reports and final reports for all
committed subprojects would be sent to IDA (RMP) by the Technical Assistance
Project Cell (TAPC) on a regular basis. Copies would also be forwarded to
the responsible division at HQ where appropriate. Subprojects in which IDA
has a special interest would be clearly identified with the TAPC, a mid-term
review conducted by IDA, and IDA's comments on the mid-term review, progress
reports and preliminary reports would be considered and reflected in the
final report.
7.      Replenishment applications would be numbered consecutively for the
credit as a whole regardless of the subproject in question. These would be
checked against the contract or subproject to which the application refers
and, if satisfactory, would be forwarded to the Disbursements Division at the
Bank. The amount of the withdrawal application would be recorded in the
subproject file under a heading of "submitted". When notification of the
payment has been received (monthly statements from Controllers) this would be
recorded as "disbursed".
8.      Progress reports on the overall status of the technical assistance
program would be submitted quarterly in a format already agreed between the
Association and TAPC. This is in addition to the progress reports on
specific subprojects prepared by consultants or executing agencies which
would be sent to the Bank as soon as they are available. Full supervision
reports (Form 590) would be prepared for the project every six months by RMP
and given the full normal circulation for such reports. The project comple-
tion report would be prepared by the RMP in collaboration with the TAPC.



-27-
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
PROCEDURES
STAGE                 DOCUMENTATION                ACTION              REFERENCE
IDENTIFICATION  Preliminary description,   Executing Agency (EA)    Project
cost estimate, executing   TAPC submits to RMP        documents
agency and proposed         which review.  If         and Devel-
selection/procurement       necessary consults        opment Credit
procedures.                 with relevant HQ          Agreement
division and approves    (DCA).
in principle.
APPROVAL         Bidding Procedures -        EA/TAPC submits to        Guidelines for
letter of invitation        RMP which reviews.        Selection of
terms of reference,         If necessary consults    Consultants and
cost estimates, time-       with relevant HQ          Procurement
table and selection/        division and clears.      Guidelines.
evaluation criteria.
Single Source - terms
of reference, cost esti-
mates, timetable, draft
contract and justifica-
tion for single source
selection.
COMMITMENT      Bidding Procedures -         EA/TAPC submits to
Evaluation report, draft  REMP which reviews.
negotiated contract, and   If necessary consults
timetable.                  with responsible HQ
division including legal
Single Source-draft         and clears.  EA/TAPC
negotiated contract         signs contract.  Two
and timetable.              signed copies of con-
tract submitted to RMP,
forwards one signed copy
to Disbursements, one
signed copy to legal.
Copies to responsible
HQ Division.



-28-
ANNEX rIi
Page 4 of 4
IMPLEMENTATION  Subprojects - Progress       EA/TAPC forwards reports
reports, interim reports,  to RMP which arranges for
mid-term review and         appropriate Bank review.
final reports.              For all components in
which Bank has a special
interest, Bank's mid-term
review and other comments
and recomuendations must
be reflected in final
report.
Technical Assistance        TAPC submit quarterly
Project - Quarterly         progress reports in format
reports.                    agreed between Bank and
TAPC.
DISBURSEMENT    Replenishment applications TAPC to operate special    Standard
numbered consecutively.    account in accordance         procedures
with standard procedures   for operation
announced by Ministry       of special
of Finance and submit       accounts.
replenishment requests
on a periodic basis to
enable maintaining ade-
quate funds for project
operation.
COMPLETION       Project Completion          TAPC prepares data for       Bank's Oper-
Report (PCR)                PCR.  Final PCR prepared   ational Manual
by RMP.                     Statement
(OHS 3.58 on
preparation of
PCRs).



THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY                                                            JUSTIFICATION, LINKAGE
IN MAJOR SECTORS  _                   SUBPROJECT/SCOPE OF WORK                         TO OVELL STRATEGII                     EXPECTED OUTPUT AND FOLLOV-U?
h. HACRO-ECONOMIC MANAGEHENrr.                M Medium Term Fiscal Policy and         The Bank haa financed a study on             Design of strategies for additional
Resource Hobilization.l/                Analysis of Tax Policy in Developing         tax revenue generation and reform of
-Strengthening medium-term planning                                                   Countries - including Pakistan - in          overall tax system, on the basis of
and investment programing caps-         -study to (a) acsess the resource re-    support of the work program of the              NTRC recosandations. Study would be
bilities and developing a policy         quirementa of existing and proposed         Nationsl Taxation Reform Commission          completed during FY87, results incor-
framework conducive to economic          expenditure plans; (b) develop              (NTRC).  The proposed study is a            porated in the Seventh Plan by end
growth;                                  strategies for raising additional           follow-up of earlier analytical work        FYS8 and isplemented during Plan
tax revenue; (c) integrate these           and would assist in devising stra-           (FY89-93).
-Budgetary controls including             with borroving, public sector pric-         tegies for resource mobilization.
additional resource                       ing, user charges/cost recovery and
mobilisation, improved user-              subsidy policies.
charges/cost recovery,
reduction in subsidies;                 Ad2 Savings Iehavior.1/                      Linked to the government's objective        Develop proposals for mobilizing
-Improve balance of payments                                                          of encouraging a larger role for the        additional private savings, by end
performance through export              -study to investigate savings behavior   private sector, the study is designed    7787 and incorporated in Seventh
promotion and diversification;           in Pakistan through an analysis of          to address resource mobilization            Plan by end-FTU8  and inpleented
existing information - Household           issues,                                      during the Seventh Plan (FT89-93).
Income and Expenditure Survey,
-Develop credit and other poli-            identify the major determinants
cies to control inflation;               of private savings, and develop
strategies for mobilizing additional
-Improving incentives for priva-          private savings.                                                                                                                If
tization, oncouraSing a larger
share of plivate sector in              A.3 National Taxation Reform Comission. The National Taxation Reform Cac-                Implementation of at overall
overall investment/development                                                       mission has submitted its report            tax refors progrm    Sebedule of
activities.                             -Aseistance is to be provided to             regarding proposals for a reform of         output and follow-up dependent upon
Government for implementing the            the tax system, which is currently           the submission of NTRC's final
recommendations of NTRC regarding          being reviewed by Government.                report, and Government decision on
overall tax reform.                        Implementation of NlRCGs recorende-          specific programs for tax reform.
tions would lead to a major reform
of the tax system allowing for
additional revenue generation.
A.4 Borrowing Strategies.                   While Pakistan'a  external debt              Hecosendatione regarding feasible
(levels and recent grovth) is               borrowing strategies to be adopted
-study to review existing levels of         moderate, domestic debt has risen            over the medium term to be made and
domestic and foreign debt, analyse         sharply.  The study would reviev             incorporated in Seventh Plan by end-
trends in saelscted indicators of          implications of these trends for             FY88 and implemented during F`89-93.
indebtedness, identify borrowing           future borrowing and creditworthiness,
requirements and develop strategies        identify realistic/feasible borroving
for improving access to commercial         levels and outline appropriate



AE  TV
Page 2
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY                                                              JUSTIFICATION, LINKAGE
IN MAJOR SECTORS                       SUBPROJECT/SCOPE OF WORK                         TO OVERALL STRATEGY                     EXPECTED OUTPUT AND FOLLOW-UP
markets,                                    strategies in line with the couttry's
graduation from IDA towards additional
IBRD funding.
A.5 Export, Balance of Payments              The Government is critically avare of    Recosendations on export strategy
StrsteBy.lJi)                           the scarcity of information on selected  focusing on market conditions, supply
aspects regarding exports - markets,         prospects, diversification (product
-given additional import requirements,    price trends, etc.  The proposed study   and region) and incentives due by
prospects for remittances inflows           would fill some of these gaps and            end-nFJ7, incorporated into Seventb
and capital inflows, improvements           develop an export strategy for the           Plan (nIB), and implmented during
in balance of payments require a            Seventh Plan.                                the Plan (flI9-93).
large growth in exports. The pro-
posed study would reviev market
conditions, demand prospects, price
trends, constraints including admin-
istrative restrictions and submit
proposals for improving incentives
for exports.
A,6 Private Foreign Investmentc1i            In view of critical foreign exchange         Keconmend policies for encouraging
constraints (and given prospects for         increased flowa of private foreign
-study to review existing foreign in-    remittances and aid flows) policies              investment by end-7Y87, incorporated
vestment regime (procedures, policies,  to encourage larger foreign invest-              into Seventh Plan by end-fn88 and
sanctioning limits, guarantees, ecc),   nent inflows are critical for improved   implemented beginning in FY89.
recent performance (levels, country of  balance of payments performance. The
origin, sectoral and regional break-    study's objectives are in line witb
down), and submit recomnendations           recent government initiatives regard-                                                O
for removing restrictions and               ing deregulation and improvement in
regulat5ons.                                incentives.
Ad7 Computer Equipment for the Planning  Contribute to overall information base   Sycteas [or project monitoring and
and Development Division.2f             of the Government alloving for the           computerization of national end
design of better medium-term plans,          sectoral data base to be set up at
improve macro-economic management and    Planning and Development Division.
-acquisition of additional computer          supervise project execution.                 Equipment vould be purchased and
hardware and software, and related                                                       installed during TYK8, witb staff
training to improve capacities to                                                        training completed by mid-FY89.
monitor the design, execution and
evaluation of development projects,
computerize national accounts and
sectoral data bases, and improve
the quality of national accounts
statistics.
A.8 Macro-Economic Management Studies.   Hi5h-priority areas and issues that              Recommendations to be incorporated
arise from ongoing Government progras   into policy dialogue for implemen-
-subprojects coniistent with the             end the Government-Bank policy dialogue  tation by tbe Government.
eligibility criteria to be identified   that need to be analyzed and policy
during project implementation.              recommendations arrived at.



ANNEX IV
Page! 3
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES, STRATECY                                                              JUSTIFICATION, LINKAGE
_    IN MAJOR SECTORS                      SUBPROJECT/SCOPE OF WORK                          TO OVERALL STRATEGY                     EXPECTED OUTPUT kND FOLLOW-UP
B. AGRICULTURE:                           3.1 Rice and Cotton Marketing.               Focus on export promotion and diver-          Deregulation of rice and cotton
sificstion.  As prices are presently         trading end exports being reviewed
-Accelerate the transition from           -study to review existing operations          close to or above world market prices    be Deregulation Comission. Study
self-suffiie£ncy to export of major   of Rice and Cotton Export Corpora-              for these items, proposals to reduce          completed by mid-Fe8I, vould provide
crops, and promote diversification    tions and recommend strategies for               coats and to encourage a larger role         framework for improvements in rice
through increased production/             enhancing exports through Ca) in-           for the private sector in rice/cotton    and cotton exports, as part of the
exports of new high-value crops;          provements in procurement procedures;   handling and exports are needed.  The    proposed eauk Agriculture Sector
(b) design of strategies for expand-    study would also focus on measures to    Losa  (FY87).
-Increase yields per acre through          ing exports into new markets; and            improve performance of the public
improved availability and greater         (c) reducing coste through greater          sector corporations.
use of modern inputa;                     efficiency in handling, storage and
distribution ysytems.
-Improve water management and in-                                                 11
stitutional support particularly         B.2 National Comuission on Agriculture.  The Government has set up a National              Design of long term agriculture
by strengthening the extension                                                        Commission on Agriculture (NCA), to           strategy focussing on key policy
system;                                  -studies to: Ca) review agricultural         eubafit recommendations on a strategy         issues in the sector  implementation
performance 1960-1985, (b) analyze          for the sector for the next decade.          of which is to be supported by a
-Promote a larger role for the             demand prospects for agriculture pro-   Studies, for which terms of reference    proposed Blnk Agriculture Sector
private sector in input and               ducts, tc) supply prospects snd             have been prapared vith the assis-            Loas  (7187).  Output of subprojects
output distribution;                      policies for Pakistanso agricultural    tance of lank seconded staff, to                  expected by end-FY8I. Implementation
products, Cd) pricing policy issues2/   assist NCA in carrying out its work              following finalization of Commie-
-Rationalize the price system to           and Ce) an agricultural modell2  and        program would be funded.                      sion's Report by December 1987.
encourage production as vell as           other subprojects.
reduce subsidies.
B.3 Agricultural Diversification, Com-   In line with the objective of diversi-   Listing of policy incentives and                 I
parstive Advantage and Efficiency    fication of production, the study vould  institutional support required
of Minor Crops and Livectock.l/          recocmend strategies and policies for    for promoting greater diversifi-
increasing output of minor and other         cation of agriculture. to be
-study to review prospects for en-           non-traditional crops.                       implemented as part of agricul-
hancing production and exports of                                                        tural sector reform program of
non-traditional crops, focus on the                                                      the Goverement.  Recoasendationa
policy franmewok and institutional                                                       by end-FY7, for incorporation
support necessary for enhancing                                                          into Seventh Plan by end-TYFS and
yields.                                                                                  implemented during Plan (7Y89-93).
B.4 Computer Equipment for Agriculture   APCON is assigned the responsibility             Strengthening of institutional
Prices Commission CAPCON).j/            of preparing price policy recomenda-    espacity to prepare price policy
tions for major/minor crops.  The            recomendationa in timely anner;
-Computer hardware, consultants and          proposed assistance would allow APCON    equipment would be procured snd
staff training to support APCOM's           to play an even stronger role in pre-    installed during nss and staff
vork program.                               paring timely and comprehensive price    training cmpleted by aid-fl89.
policy recommendations.
1.5 Agriculture Sector Studies.              High priority sectoral/subsectoral           Implementation of policy reforms
issues, arising from the Governments    at sectorsl and aub-sectoral
-subprojects consistent with the             ongoing programs and the policy              levels to be supported by lank
eligibility criteria to be identified   dialogue requiring analysis and policy   Sector Loans (7187) and other
during project implementation,              actions.                                     Bank operations.



hfNfl IV
Page 4
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY                                                             JUSTIFICATION, LINXAGE
IN MAJOR SECTORS                      SUBPROJECT/SCOPE OF WORK                         TO OVERALL STRATEGY                    EXPECTED OUTPUT MiD FOLLOW-UP
C. INDUSTRY:
-o.;g-r role for the private             C.l Strategic Marketing for Public           Linked to Governrment objectives             Extend the ongoing Public Enterprise
sector in industry;                          Enterprises                             regarding the operation of public            Signalling Syates, to allow for
enterprises, the proposed study             the evaluation of managerial perfor-
-Maintenance of a flexible (real-         -study to set up facilities/inatitu-        would allow for greater mnagerial             tnce in tbe light of short and long-
istic) exchange rate and tariff          tions within public enterprises to          autonomy through the design of              term performance targets that would
rationalization, to strengthen           analyse markets, develop marketing          marketing strategies and/or restruc-         contribute tovards improved manage-
the competitive position of               strategies and respond to changes in    turing plans in the light of changes            ment and commercial operation of
manufactured exports;                     market conditions. This is an exten-    in market conditions,                           public enterprises.  The study would
sion of ongoing vork, especially a                                                      be initiated during FY87 and completed
-Deregulation and liberalization of    study under the Second Technical                                                            in fYBB; implementation (including
imports to allow access to imported   Assistance Project to develop long                                                         staff training) vould commence in
inputs and machinery;                    term corporate and/or restructuring                                                      fl89.
plans for public enterprises.
-Reorientation of public sector man-  C.2 Financial Institutions Studies.             Studies in line with Government              Formulate and imptement a progra of
ufacturing enterprises towards com-                                                  objectives regarding improvement             refor. in the nationalized commrcial
mercial operation including greater  -studies on the performance and ef-             in the credit delivery system and            banks to schedule agreed under the On-
managerial autonomy and account-          ficiency of selected financial             the performance of comnercisl banks          going Industrial Investment Credit It
ability, evaluation of managerial         institutions and the effectivnacs          and other financial institutions.            (La. 2648-P&E/Cr. 1646-PAZ).
efficiency in terms of short- and        of the financial systems in deliver-
long-term performance targets,            ing credit for industrial investment.
and incentives for management.
C.3  Industrial Strategy for the 1990s    Government hae requested that the              Study to be concluded by uid-nfl,
Bank undertake this atudy along            and results incorporated into Seventh
-review of results and recommendations    with consultants financed from credit   Plan by Xarch 1988, for ispleseata-
of about 15 studies in industry that        proceeds as required.  Study vould          tion during Plan (fl89-93).
have been financed under the previous    focus on overall strategy, incentive
technical assistance projects and other  system, trade liberalization and
work, and derive consistent long-term    efficiency issues that are part of
strategy, analyze growth prospects, and  Goverrment strategy.
recommend proposals for improving
efficiency, competitiveness and appro-
priate levels of effective protection.
C.4 Computer Equipment for Central          Proposed assignment would assist             Standardized rebate procedures based
Board of Revenue (CBR).V                Government in its export promotiou          on updated input-output coefficients,
efforts by stresalining and improving    open-bonded manufacturing facilities
-as agreed under the Export Develop-        rebate procedures and incentives for         and systems for extending access to
ment Loan (Ln. 2701-PAZ) assistance        exporters.                                   duty-free imports to indirect
vould be provided to CBP to acquire                                                     exporters to be set up by sad Fl87
computer hardware and related train-                                                    at CIR.  Computer hardware and soft-
ing for improving and updating the                                                     ware to be acquired in flB8; inetal-
system of standard rebates, intro-                                                     ltion and staft training to be
ducing open-bonded manufacturing                                                        completed by end-fl89.
systems and extending access to
duty-free Imports to indirect
exporters.



ANn  IT
Page 5
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY                                                             JUSTITICATION, LINKAGE
IN MAJOR SECTORS                      SUBPROJECT/SCOPE OF woU                          TO OVERALL STRATEGY                     EXPECTED OUTPUT AND FOLLOW-UP
C.5 lnduatrial Sector Studieo.              Address priority sectoral/sub-sectoral   Ispleintation of policy refors a*t
issues, arising from tbe Coverrment's    sectoral and sub-aectoral levels to
-subprojecta consistent vith the             ongoing program and the policy dis-         be supported by a proposed Bank In-
eligibility criteria to be identi-          logue requiring analysis and policy         dustrial Sector Loan (7790) and sub-
fied during project implementation.        actions.                                     aector IOIns (FYnS  and 89).
D  Energy:                                0.1 Energy Sector Studies,                   Priority issues arising from the             Imple entation of policy reforms
Government's ongoing progr-m                to be supported througb a proposed
-Continued progress on invest-            -subprojects consistent with the             and the policy dialogue requiring           Second Energy Sector Loan (t8)
went programming, resource                eligibility criteria to be identi-          analysis and policy actions, as             and other lank operations.
mobilization and institutional            fied during project implementation.         follow-up to the ongoing Energy
development;                                                                          Sector Loan (Ln.2552).
-Least-cost system development,
tariff structures, scope for
privatization, pricing.
E  Transport:                             3.1 Petroleum Product. Retail Pricing.   Linked to overall and sectoral                  Reco  endations expected during FY51.
resource mobilization issues and            Implement policy regarding reform
-Improved investment planning,            -study to review existing retail price   the design of an efficient retail               of price structure, to ovtrcome the
maintenance, cost recovery;               structure for major products   gaso-    pricing structure for petroleum                 distortionary effects of existing
line, diesel, fuel oil, LPC - and it.   products.                                       price regime on resource allocation.
-tmproved intermodal planning              relation to structure of eu-refinery                                                    as part of policy package to be
and investment, more efficient            prices, effects of existing strutture                                                   supported by a proposed Transport
pricing and regulatory code               on demand, and costs of the present                                                     Sector Loan (fY88) and a Setond           w
and institutional reforms.                distorted demand structure in terms                                                     Energy Sector Loan (fBB). 
of allocative efficiency.
1.2 Provincial Road Maintenance.            Review of the Goverumentas policies          Output from Phase I by 7189 and
regarding OM expenditures and cost         Phase II by end FY89. lprovements
-study in two phases to focus on opera-  recovery, to address issues regarding    in provincial G&N policies to be
tion and maintenance l06i) procedures   the adequacy of DAN allocations end             supported by a proposed Highways V
of provincial governments, improvements resource mobilization,                          project (7791).
in 08M policies and cost effectiveness,
and integrate these vith Federal 06M
policies regarding national highways.
E.3 Trucking Industry.                      Part of transport sector issues              Recommendations to be die-
relating to the uanufacturel                cussed and implenented supported
-review of existing policies and/or         assembly and supply of vehicles,             by the proposed Transport Sector
guidelines regarding local assembly        presently folloving a strategy               Loan (7188).
and manufacture of trucks, analyse          leading to inefficiency and output
effects of existing deletion pro-          of outdated trucks.
grams and local manufacture on choice
of technology and efficiency of the
truck manufacturing industry.



Page 6
GOVERNNENT OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY                                                          JUSTIFICATION, LINKAGE
IN MAJOR SECTORS                     SUBPROJECTJSCORE OF WORK                       TO OVERALL STRATEGY -PECTED OUTPDT ADD VolLOV-UP
E.4 Transport Sector Studies.              Nigh priority issues arising from          Implementation of policy
the Government's ongoing programs,         reforms to be supported by
-subprojects consistent vith tbe           and the policy dialogue and prepare-       proposed TrDanport Sector
eligibility criteria to be identi-        tion/appraisal of proposed lending         Loan (FY83) and other lank
fied during project implementation,       operations requiring analysis and          operations.
policy actions.
F. EDUCATION:                           F.1 Efficiency of Primary Education         The study would complement ongoing         Recomend least cost strategy for
System.                                oDhbais on increasing the quality          improving primary education
-Expansion in allocations for                                                       of educational facilities by               facilities by FY3B  for isplementa-
education, to double literacy          -study to identify input-output rela-    designing strategies for improving            tion beginning nF89.
rate by 1990;                           tionships, define critical inputs         the quality of educational services.
for maximizing education output and
-Raise level of primary, non-fonnal    develop a least cost strategy.
and vocational skills;
F.2 Education Sector Studies.              Given the Govermentus priority to          Tnput into primary education
-Improve the quality and rele-                                                      the sector, the Bank's aphasia and         strategy and implementation of
vance to manpower needs of educa-    -subprojects consistent with the              the policy dialogue on education,          policy reforms in the education
tion facilities through expansion       eligibility criteria to be identi-        high priority issues requiring              sector as part of the Govern-
of facilities, better teacher           fied during project implementation.        analysis and policy options would           ent'a progrems to be supported
training, supply of teaching aids,                                                be included.                                by Bank operations proposed in
increased supervision.  The design                                                                                            FY57 and FY89.
of more flexible curricula and the
level of funding for education and
the role of the private sector.



ANNIZ IT
Page 7
GOVEKRNHNT OBJECTlVES, STIATEGY                                                            JUSTIFICATION. LINXAGE
IN MUJOR SECTORS                     SUVFROJECT/SCOPE OF WORK                         TO OVERALL STRATEGY                    UIECTED OUTUT MMD TOLLOY-UP
G. URBAN                                 .1 Urban Transport Sector Reviev.          Linked to providing an increased            Issues to be addressed under
and efficient role for the pri-             the proposed Transport Sector
- Improve urban and provincial           -building on existing vork by the           vate sector in the provision of             LosA  (FnB).
agencies capabilities in plan-          National Twansport Raseatch Ceater         urban transport.
ning and operating urban infrs-         on urban transport arrangements,
structural facilities;                  the proposed study would derive
recomuendationa for easing entry
- Increase cost recovery and              requirements and improving e£fic-
resource mobilization;                  iency of urban transport .ystea
through inereased privatization.
- Identify and teat new approaches
to the provision of urban er-          0.2 Urban Land Management.                  Linked to resource sbilization, cost    COneDce work during nTu8 witb
vices, especially for the urban                                                    recovery and user charges policies/         recomendatinos due mid-F7o9.
poor.                                  -review ezisting legislation and            objectives, in the urban sector under    Incorporation in tbe Goveraentia
policies for land acquisition, sales    ongoing and proposed Bank operations.    urban sector strategy, to be sup-
policies of public sector agencies                                                     ported by Dank lending operations
and role of private sector, and                                                        in 7189 end tbereafter.
recommend proposals for improvement.
G 3 Urban Sector Studies.                   Higb priority issues erising from the    Inaptestation Of r fefrs supported
Governentae ongoing progrms. the            by proposed Dank operations in
-subprojects consistent vith the            policy dialogue and the preparation         FTe 87. 88. wad 89.
eligibility criteria to be identi-         of lending operations requiring
fied during project implementation,        analysis sod policy actions.
jJ Subprojects for implesentation in the first year of the project.
21 Subprojects include training.



ANNEX V
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES /a
(US$1.000)
Specialized
Cansultancies Equipment   Base   Price Con-  Total
Studies  (man-months)  & Training  Costs  tingencies  Costs
lb         Ic                                Id         I.
Macro-Economic Management
Computerization-equipment and training
(Planning Commission)                                                     700/f      700        50       750
Medium Term Fiscal Policy and Resource
Mobilization                                               120(10)                   120         -        120
Assistance to National Tax Reform Commission                 200(35)                   200        15        215
Savings Behavior                                             100( 8)                    100        -        100
Export/Balance of Payments Strategy               l0                                    60         -         60
Private Foreign Investment                        60                                    60         -         s0
Borrowing Strategy                                50                                    60         -         50
Agriculture
Computerization-equipment and training
(Agrieultural Prices Commission)                                           80         80         5        85
Assistance to National Commission on                                                                                                     s
Agriculture                                                250(25)                   250         -       250                          0'
Rice and Cotton Marketing                        200                                   200        10        210
Agriculture Diversification and Efficiency    200                                      200         -        200
Agriculture Prices Commission -
Consultants, Equipment and Training                         75(25)          25       100        15        115
Industry
Computerization-equipment and training
(Central Board of Revenue)                                                500        500        30       530
Industrial Strategy for 199 :                     30                                    30         -         30
Strategic Marketing for Public
Manufacturing Enterprises                      500                                   500        30        530
Financial Institutions Studies                   500                                   500        30        530



ANNEXK V
Spucial d ied
Consultmncies Equipment   Basm   Price Con-  Total
Studiesa  (man   onthn)  &  rinn   Costa  uincnles  Coats
lb          CM                                             /ae
.';*d i Cost Estimates (Cont'd)'
*      ~~Transport
Petroleum Products Retail Pricing                   200                                     200         10        210
*      ~~Provincial Road Maintenance                        200                                     200         t0        210
Trucking Industry                                   1                                        100 .                100
Urban
Urban Transport Sector Review                       100                                     100          -        100
Urban Land Management                               150                                     150         15        165
Education
Efficiency of Primary Education System              100                                     100          5        105
Other Studies                                    2,100                                    2,100        165     2.285
Counterpart Staff and Support Services                                                    1,500                 1,500                           44
ease Costs                                       4.560          745            1,305      8.110       a90      8.500
Price Contingencies                                 275          30               85        390
Total Costs                                4.835         775            1,390      8.500                 8.500
Is Costs are based on mid-1986 prices.
lb Man-month requirements for studies have not been provided In this table, as these are dependent on
estimates to be submitted as part of the Consultant's proposals.
Ic Includes travel and per diem.
/d Price contingencies: 3% for 1987, and 1% for 1958 and thereafter.
Ie Including taxes which are negligible.
/f Comprising 5350,000 - hardwarel S265.000 - softwarei and 585.000 - training.



IBRD 16248R
J ', S R @ -MAY IW3
PAKISTAN                                                                                     'I
f    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           1)
a    CITIES AND TOWNS
-    NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                               A   '  
RAILWAYS                                              -                           A        I
+   AIRPORTS                                          -\  S C hottio      \      4^tVf.
-    -  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            I t?d SLAM AD
RIVERS                                                *p-d
f    )    ~~~~~~~AFGHANISTAN                                                          X.                                )- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Nl' lA
2r                (9s                                                             //2*
I SLAMIC jVv   
REPUBLIC OF b-.
IRAN                                       |                                                         1B      7?       300      0
_._               |  4   /1  FJ  f i   <                                 bst~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tOMET ErtS
0oJ s i           \ , 53    100    I0    200    250
(-/                                                                                                       A \Nowobeho  j  Mlt FS
- -            -                               - rh eq.o Cd.rbo                                                     1¶ pMp*n*X te.1 I.
;Bdej       m Pt. h- ,. ind e                                               Wr*s hi r
tR         ,~~~~~~w Ihi h,tt_l&W  Feut
24.                                                        -   !-,                     .....................100.S A,,1 nr rn . tmw se r
-                                     ,^                                        S z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iene l-wut sn
-24-                                                                                                       0.1 rpnt n1 nr6 ~ Oh
Clan r-,4t 1   all
6f'             6r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wt ev,l



