Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16416
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
MARCH 26, 1997
World Bank Resident Mission in Pakistan (SAlPK)
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
Approval Year (1986/87)    Rs 17.18 = US$ 1.00
Completion Year (1993/94)  Rs 30.57 = US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL         Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
APCom        Agriculture Price Commission
CBR          Central Board of Revenues
CECP         Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan
CLA          Corporate Law Authority
EAC          Experts Advisory Cell
EAD          Economic Affairs Division
EFF          Extended Fund Facility
FBS          Federal Bureau of Statistics
MSU          Multi-Donor Support Unit (for SAP)
NCA          National Commission on Agriculture
PD           Project Director (of TAPC)
RECP         Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
SBP          State Bank of Pakistan
TAERC        Technical Assistance Evaluation and Review Committee
TAPC         Technical Assistance Project Cell
WAPDA        Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President        Mieko Nishimizu, SAS
Director (Acting)     Fakhruddin Ahmed, SA I
Resident Representative  Sadiq Ahmed, SAIPK
Staff Member          Hanid Mukhtar,
Economist, SAIPK



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  .....................................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .i
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Setting  ...........        ...................................... 1
B.   Background   .................................................1
C.   Project Objectives and Description   ...............................................  2
D.   Project Design and Organization          ...............................................   3
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...  3
F.    Project Results         ...............    ..................................5
G.   Assessment of Project Outcome            ...............................................  6
H.   Project Sustainability/Future Operations of the Project   ..............  7
I.    Bank Performance    ................       ..................................8
J.    Borrower Performance            ................................................. 9
K.   Lessons Learned          ...............     .................................  10
L.    Project Relationship  ...............       .................................  11
M.   Project Documentation and Data    ...............................................  11
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction   ....................   12
B.   Project Implementation           ....................  12
C.   Conclusion    ....................   13
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables 1-13 ......  15-32
T'his document has a restricted distaibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizafion.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Technical Assistance
Project in Pakistan, for which Credit 1755-PAK of the amount SDR 5.9 million (US$ 7.0
million) was approved on January 20, 1987. The Credit closed on December 31, 1993, after
three one-yearly extensions. The final disbursement under the Credit was made in the fourth
quarter of FY94, with the remaining balance of SDR 1.5 million subsequently canceled.
This ICR was prepared by the World Bank's Resident Mission in Pakistan (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
The information in the ICR is based on the Credit Agreement; supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; Bank's internal memoranda; and the
information and documentation provided by officials of the Planning Division, Government of
Pakistan.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The Third Technical Credit (TA-III) was approved in 1987, with a total credit amount of
SDR 5.9 million (US$ 7.0 million), to finance the Government's efforts on policy reform
programs related to the macroeconomy and in the industry, energy, agriculture, transport,
education and urban sectors. An important implied objective of the Project was to enhance the
Government's institutional capacity, especially that of the key policy making and
implementation agencies (ICR, Part I, para 4).
Implementation Experience
2.    Although TA-III did not face any major problems, the pace of implementation was
substantially slower than had been expected. This was partly because TA-Ill became effective
while TA-II was still on-going, and some of the sub-projects which were to be financed from
TA-III funds were actually financed from funds left in TA-II; but mostly this was an outcome of
the procedural and logistical delays encountered in identifying and processing of new studies and
sub-projects to be financed under TA-Ill. As a result of these delays, the Project only managed
to disburse SDR 4.4 million (US$ 6.0 million), despite three one-year extensions (ICR, Part I,
para 8).
3.    The timely implementation of TA-III also suffered due to inadequate staffing at the
Technical Assistance Project Cell (TAPC) of the Planning Commission--the executing agency of
the Project. This problem was caused by stringent Government rules and procedures, and
compounded by frequent transfers of key staff out of TAPC, including the Project Director.
Inadequate staffing of TAPC was mainly responsible for the delays in identification of studies,
preparation of TORs, issuance of invitations for bids, and completion of technical evaluation of
proposals. In a few instances, awarding of contracts for studies was delayed due to delays by the
Bank in according final approval. Furthermore, in some cases, delays in constitution and
convening of the Technical Assistance Evaluation and Review Committee (TAERC) was also
responsible for the slow implementation of studies and/or sub-projects (ICR, Part I, para 9).
Results
4.    The TA-Ill Credit was reasonably successful in achieving its overall  objectives of
providing support to the Government's adjustment and policy reform process. Aside from
financing a number of consultancies and studies on various policy related issues/areas, TA-III also
financed a few sub-projects with the purpose of strengthening key Government policy institutions



iii
by providing computer and other office equipment and training to the staff of the sponsoring
agencies, and by financing other human resource development activities. However, some of the
sub-projects were delayed due to various factors (para 3 above), while one study failed to meet its
objective and was abandoned as incomplete (ICR, Part I, paras 16-20).
Project Outcome Assessment
5.    Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory, as the project achieved most of its specific
objectives. The Project was most successful in achieving its macroeconomic and sectoral
objectives, while the project achieved only partial success in improving planning and
implementation capacity of the Government, whereas success in achieving the social objectives was
only marginal (ICR, Part I, paras 21-23).
Project Sustainability
6.    Although TA-III was reasonably successful in improving the policy-making and
implementation capacity of some key agencies of the Government, achievement in building the
overall policy making and implementation capacity of the Government was much more limited.
This was mainly due to the fact that only a few Government agencies were able to identify and
design appropriate sub-projects to benefit from the Project. Regarding all other major objectives
and strategies, it is possible that the Government will be able to maintain the Project's
achievements in the short-run. While the studies and consultancies financed by the Project
would continue to provide the Government with analysis and direction for policy reforms,
Government's adherence to policy reforms and structural adjustment of the economy would keep
sufficient interest and commitment within the Government and donor community to continue
strengthening the institutional development efforts initiated under the Project. Also, adequate
financial and human resources have been allocated for O&M of equipment procured from the
Project's funds (ICR, Part I, paras 24-27).
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.    The rules and procedures governing the implementation of TA-Ill were complex and
inflexible and were, therefore, partly responsible for the slow implementation of the Project. It
would be desirable to simplify these procedures for any future TA Project, or TA component of any
other project. A possible solution could be that the Bank should be consulted only on studies
exceeding a specified financial limit, or if substantive or logistical problems are encountered. For
other studies, an acceptable model contract and letter of invitation should be used, which need not
be submitted to the Bank for each study (ICR, Part I, para 36).
8.    Implementation of the Project also suffered due to dispersion of authority and responsibility
among various entities. The Project Director (PD) was given only limited autonomy in procedural
and financial matters. For effective management of any future TA project, its overall control
should primarily rest with agency responsible for policy planning in the Government, and the PD
should have greater authority to decide on most matters relating to the award of contracts for
studies, disbursements and other administrative matters. For evaluation, technical proposals should



iv
be submitted to technical sections of the executing agency and/or the government organization
responsible for the study. The TAERC should be convened only once for the final selection and
award of each study. Monitoring of the sub-projects should be undertaken by the staff of the TAPC
on a routine basis (ICR, Part I, para 39).
9.    If there is to be a new TA Project, it may be desirable to modify its design to restrict its
scope only to macroeconomic policy and reform issues. Correspondingly, such a project would
involve only the economic agencies of the Government of Pakistan, such as the Planning Division,
the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs Division, the State Bank of Pakistan, etc. The funding
and other TA needs of the sectoral and provincial departments and agencies could be addressed by
incorporating and/or strengthening the technical assistance component in Bank's projects for
provincial and sectors. This arrangement can effectively resolve the ownership problem faced by
TA-Ill, and would ensure more effective control and monitoring of TA by the concerned agencies
(ICR, Part I, para 41).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT'S REVIEW FROM THE WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Setting
Project Name            Third Technical Assistance Credit
Loan No.                Credit 1755-PAK
RVP Unit                 South Asia
Country     .           Pakistan
Sector      :           Technical Assistance
B.   Background
1.    During the past fifteen years, the World Bank's support for GOP's structural adjustment
programs has been complemented by Technical Assistance Credits I, II and III amounting to
SDR 18.8 million (US$ 21.0 million). In 1982, the Government of Pakistan's macroeconomic
policy reform and adjustment process under the IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was
supported by the first Structural Adjustment Loan -- SAL-I (Loan 2166-PAK Credit 1255-PAK)
which was to assist in rationalization of industrial structure, formulation of policy reforms to
accelerate the development of Pakistan's oil and gas potential, implementation of the newly
developed National Agricultural Policy, and rebuilding of an effective planning system in the
country. SAL-I was accompanied by the First Technical Assistance Credit (TA-I) of SDR 6.3
million (US$ 7 million) to assist the Government in the development of policy statements and
reform programs to be implemented as part of the structural adjustment process.
2.    Subsequently, after completion of TA-I, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and the
World Bank agreed to continue the adjustment process in the key sectors of the economy--
especially in agriculture, industry and energy, develop a policy framework for Bank's project
lending and sector loans in each of these sectors, and to strengthen the Planning Commission
through establishment of a comprehensive computer network. To achieve these objectives, the
Bank approved the Second Technical Assistance Credit (TA-II) amounting to SDR 6.6 million
(US$ 7.0 million) in 1984.
3.    Even before the completion of TA-II, both GOP and the Bank agreed on continued
technical assistance support for the Government's structural adjustment and policy reforms in



2
key sectors and sub-sectors of the economy and for increasing the efficiency and capacity of the
Government's policy related departments and agencies so as to strengthen the Government's
overall institutional capacity to design and implement macroeconomic and sectoral policies in a
more effective and sustained manner.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
4.    Project Objectives The Third Technical Assistance Credit (TA-III) was approved in 1987.
with the total amount of SDR 5.9 million (US$ 7.0 million),' to support the Government's
structural adjustment and policy reform programs for the macroeconomy and in the industry,
energy, agriculture, transport, education and urban sectors. An important implied objective of
the Project was to enhance Government's overall institutional capacity, especially that of the key
policy making and policy implementing agencies.
5.    Project Description The Project was designed to finance: (a) priority studies for the
preparation of Government's Five Year Plans; (b) preparation of sector/sub-sector policy reform
programs through studies and specialized technical consultancies in the fields of energy,
agriculture, industry, transport, and social sectors; and (c) build-up of institutional capacity of
key national institutions by providing equipment, training and related materials and other
technical support. The sub-projects and studies to be financed under TA-III were expected to
support the Government's efforts to maintain a sound macroeconomic policy framework;
contribute to a better understanding of the existing policy scenario (macroeconomic, sectoral and
sub-sectoral); analyze the likely impact of individual reform proposals; and. prepare of proposals,
programs and strategies for better implementation of reform policies and programs.  More
specifically, TA-IlI was designed to support the Government's efforts in the following areas:
(a)   Macroeconomic Management: to provide support to the macroeconomic reform
program by financing studies, consultancies, purchase of equipment and training
for Government officials so as to develop the key economic management
institutions of the Government. In this regard, TA-III was to provide analytical
assistance to Government resource mobilization efforts by supporting the work
program of the Nation Taxation Commission. Similarly, TA-III was also intended
to assist the Government in understanding the existing policy regimes and
formulating policies and strategies for the Seventh Five Year Plan, especially
regarding export promotion and balance of payment policies, fostering and
mobilizing private savings, enhancement of private foreign investment, improved
access to foreign commercial markets and improvements in manpower
management.
(b)   Agriculture and Water sectors: to provide continued support to the Agriculture
Price Commission (APCom) to prepare proposals for agriculture pricing policies.
The project was also to finance studies on diversification of agriculture by
exploring the untapped potentials of the non-crop sub-sectors, improvement of
'In addition, the Government was to contribute US$ 1.5 million (equivalent) in support staff and services.



3
efficiency and yields of the crop sector; improvement in marketing of cotton and
rice--the main primary exports of the country; and to assist the National
Commission on Agriculture in making medium and long-term policies and
strategies for the sector.
(c)   Industrv: to continue with the assistance provided under TA-I and TA-I1 to the
Experts Advisory Cell (EAC), Ministry of Production, for establishment of a
Corporate Planning System to complement the signaling system for Public
Manufacturing Enterprises.
(d)   Energy: to finance studies in the Petroleum and Gas sectors which were to assist
in making effective the Government strategies in these key sectors of the
economy.
(e)   Social Sectors: to finance specialized studies, particularly in the area of primary
and higher education.
D.   Project Design and Organization
6.    Although most of the studies and sub-projects to be financed from TA-III were broadly
defined at the time of appraisal, the design of the Project was kept sufficiently flexible so that the
project components could easily be modified according to the needs of the Government as its
structural adjustment and reform program evolved. The studies and sub-projects identified at the
initiation of TA-III were therefore only indicative. A number of studies were expected to
provide assistance in preparing policy reforms in key sectors which would be supported by the
Bank's sector and structural adjustment operations. Sufficient flexibility was also incorporated
in the project design to modify the scope of studies and sub-projects in accordance with changing
Government priorities.
7.    The Technical Assistance Project Cell (TAPC), established in the Planning and
Development Division of the Ministry of Planning and Development, was given the main
responsibility of implementation and execution of the technical assistance program. The TAPC
was to program, administer, and supervise the implementation of the project within the
framework of the procedures agreed during project negotiations with the World Bank. For this
purpose a Technical Assistance Evaluation and Review Committee (TAERC) was constituted by
the TAPC for each study and sub-project. Consisting of members from all the interested public
sector agencies, the TAERC was to be the key monitoring and implementation body for the
particular study or sub-project.
E.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.    TA-III did not experience major problems in implementation. Project negotiation and
start-up were completed as planned and the Credit was declared effective on February 20, 1987
(Part III, Table 2). Preparatory work on some of the key studies and sub-projects to be financed
under TA-III was undertaken according to schedule. However, the pace of implementation of the



4
project remained generally slower than expected during the entire course of the project. Slow
implementation during the initial period of execution could mainly be attributed to the fact that
TA-III became effective while TA-II was still on-going, and some of the sub-projects which were
to be financed from TA-III funds were actually financed from funds left in TA-II. While
sluggish pace of implementation in the later period was an outcome of the procedural and
logistical delays encountered in identifying and processing of new studies and sub-projects to be
financed under TA-III. Both problems could have been resolved by better scheduling of the TA
projects and by adopting somewhat flexible rules and procedures which governed the
identification and approval of new studies and sub-projects.
9.    The timely implementation of TA-III also suffered due to inadequate staffing at the
TAPC (see para 35 for details)--a problem caused by stringent Government rules and procedures
and compounded by frequent transfers of key staff out of TAPC, including the Project Directors
(PDs). Inadequate staffing of TAPC was mainly responsible for the delays in identification of
studies, preparation of TORs, issuance of invitations for bids, and completion of technical
evaluation of proposals. In a few instances, award of contracts for studies was slowed down due
to delays by the Bank in according final approval. Furthermore, in some cases delays in
constitution and convening of TAERC was also responsible for slower implementation of studies
and/or sub-projects. Although both the issues were partly outside TAPC's jurisdiction, a more
concerted effort by the Planning Division in general and TAPC in particular, could have
mitigated the problems to a large extent.
10.   Furthermore, TA-III was also adversely affected by an "ownership" problem. With the
Planning Commission being the executing agency, other Government agencies and departments
were hesitant in identifying studies and sub-projects for financing from TA-Ill funds because of
the general perception that the funds were available mainly for the Planning Division's studies.
On its part, Planning Division did make efforts to disseminate information about TA-III to
various government agencies, but these efforts were only moderately successful in alleviating the
initial impression about the ownership of the Project.
11.   Lastly, complex rules and procedure governing the implementation of TA-III were partly
responsible for the delays encountered by the Project. The Bank's monitoring and progress report
requirements were somewhat complicated and time consuming, e.g., existing procedures for
consultant selection under the TA Project were fairly complex, and involved a number of reviews
of the TORs, a request for and evaluation of proposals, and subsequent review of the selection
process by the Bank, TAPC, and the specially constituted TAERC. This caused duplication of
efforts and consequently consumed more time than ideally required.
12.   The original Closing Date for TA-III was December 31, 1990, but as only about one-third
of the Credit amount was disbursed by that date, the Bank and the Government agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1993.
13.   Project Costa: The cost of the TA-Ill was SDR 6.6 million (or US$ 7.0 million). Due to
devaluation of the US$ against the SDR, actual funds available to the project were around US$
8.3 million. However, due to delays in implementation, the full amount of the project could not



5
be utilized. The overall disbursement from the project amounted to SDR 4.4 million (US$ 6.0
million) and the balance amount of SDR 1.5 million (US$ 2.3 million) was canceled.
14.   Disburseme. Actual disbursements remained significantly lower than commitments
throughout the life of the Project as the staffing problems of the TAPC continued to affect the
overall efficiency of that entity. The Closing Date of the Project was extended three times, each
time for a year, and the disbursement from the Project (for the expenditure incurred until
December 31, 1993) continued till April 13, 1994. (Schedule of cumulative disbursements is
given in Part III, Table 3.)
15.   The disbursements for the sub-projects were tied closely to two factors. Disbursement
performance was reasonably satisfactory in cases where the concept and study proposal had been
discussed in advance between the Bank and the sponsoring agency/department of the
Government. In cases where the policy-based study was to feed into a Bank's sector or structural
adjustment operation or study, a keen interest by the Bank's keen interest ensured timely
implementation and completion of the sub-project. Secondly, disbursement performance was
linked to the staffing situation at the TAPC. Disbursements deteriorated with the worsening of
TAPC's staffing position and changes/transfer of staff.
F.    Project Results
16.   Achievement of Project Objectives. TA-III was reasonably successful in achieving its
overall  objective of providing support to the Government's adjustment and policy reform
programs. Aside from financing a number (about sixteen) of consultancies on the issues/areas of
significant policy importance, TA-III also financed about fourteen studies which provided useful
input into GOP's macroeconomic and sectoral policies. Furthermore, at least four sub-projects
were undertaken for the purpose of strengthening key Government policy institutions by providing
computer and other office equipment, training to personnel and staff of the sponsoring agencies,
and by financing other human resource development activities.
17.   Most studies and sub-projects provided input into the Government's policy reform
program, with some of them instrumental in furthering the Government's dialogue with the World
Bank and other donor agencies. A set of six studies contributed significantly to the various
committees and reports formulated by the National Commission for Agriculture (NCA). Moreover,
the commissioning of several other studies and consultancies by various government agencies such
as the State Bank of Pakistan, Pakistan Banking Council, Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA), Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS), Central Board of Revenue (CBR), Ministry of
Railways, and Ministry of Petroleum ensured effective utilization of Credit funds for a wider range
of public sector activities (See Part III, Table 5).
18.  In the context of institutional strengthening, Support for the Agricultural Price Commission
(APCom) and the Auditor General's Office Sub-Project, could be termed as the most important and
most successful of all TA-III efforts. In addition to financing purchase of equipment, the APCom's
sub-project funded training of staff both locally and abroad. A number of staff members were sent
to foreign universities and institutes for higher education (Masters and Doctorate programs). As a



6
result, the institutional capacity and efficiency of APCom was greatly enhanced. The Auditor
General's Office sub-project also provided equipment and staff training to the office responsible for
all auditing and accounting functions of the Government. As a result of this sub-project, the
operations and capacity of Pakistan Audit Department (PAD) greatly improved. Moreover, the
sub-project served as a fore-runner for a bigger World Bank's TA project for the Pakistan Audit
Department.2 Other sub-projects designed to improve the institutional capacity of government
organizations include: the Computerization and Office Automation sub-projects of the Planning
Division and Computerization of the Corporate Law Authority (CLA). While the first two sub-
projects were undertaken to improve the efficiency and overall functioning of the Planning
Commission, the latter project was undertaken to strengthen the regulatory capacity of the
Government. Nevertheless, the overall progress in improving the capacity of Government's policy-
making and implementation institutions was only moderate, as the benefits from the Project in this
regard were mainly confined to these four agencies.
19.   Although most studies and sub-projects were completed successfully, the recommendations
of most of these studies were only partly adopted by the Government. In some cases these
recommendations were adopted with considerable delay, reducing the utility of these studies.
While most studies were completed within the specified time period, with only a few of them
experiencing minor delays, the Export Information System study remained incomplete.
Undertaken for the State Bank of Pakistan, lack of understanding and difference of opinion between
the State Bank and the consultants regarding the precise requirements of the study caused delays
which, despite a series of negotiations, ultimately rendered the sub-project incomplete. Delay also
occurred in the commencement of the Gas Peak Shaving study (conducted for the Ministry of
Petroleum), due to Planning Division's insistence on separate submissions of the technical and
financial proposals which was not completely in line with the World Bank's procedures.
20.   In FY92, the Bank, on the request of the Government, earmarked US$ 1 million of TA-III
funds for the preparation and support of the Government's Social Action Program (SAP) which
were put at the disposal of the Multi-donor Support Unit (MSU) for SAP. However, as alternate
sources of funds became available to the Government, only US$ 51,000 of the earmarked TA-III
funds were utilized. The unused TA-III funds for SAP (US$ 949,000) constitutes 41% of the TA-
III funds which were canceled (approx. US$ 2.3 million) at the closure of the Project.
G.   Assessment of Project Outcome
21.   Overall, the Project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory, since the project achieved most of
its specific objectives. Moreover, in general terms, one of the biggest achievement of the Project is
that it helped the Government and donor community to focus their attention on certain key, but
neglected, areas of Government operations. Not only that improvements were made in changing
Government attitude and policy regarding these sectors/areas under the Project, due to the
realization of their overall importance, it is expected that further development on these key areas
would continue.
2 This is the "Pakistan Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing Project (PIFRA)", (Credit 282 I-PAK),
approved on September 17, 1996.



7
22.   The Project was most successful in achieving its objectives regarding the macroeconomic
and sectoral policies. The studies financed through the Project not only helped the Government in
understanding better the key issues involved in key sectors and areas of the economy, but it also
assisted the Government in formulating and implementation of fiscal, export and sectoral policies
by providing clear-cut recommendations regarding promotion of country's export, fiscal reforms,
agriculture pricing policy etc.  Similarly, by improving the effectiveness of Government's
monitoring and evaluation institutions, TA-III was significantly successful in achieving its public
sector management objectives. However, the Project was only partially successful in improving the
overall implementation capacity of the Government, mainly because implementation of
Government policy and programs and delivery of key public services is the responsibly of the
provincial governments, whereas the Project was primarily designed to assist the Federal
Government in implementation of its structural reform program. Nevertheless, TA-IIl financed
projects for the Auditor General's Office, Planning Commission, Corporate Law Authority and
Agriculture Price Commission were all reasonably successful in improving the effectiveness of
these institution in formulating and implementation of Federal Government's polices and programs.
23.   Although the original design of the Project contained very few social goals and objectives,
with the initiation of the Government's Social Action Program (SAP), TA-IlI was considered as a
main source of financing background studies and sub-projects for formulation and implementation
of SAP. However, the Project success in achievement of these objectives was extremely limited,
mainly because other sources of funds became available to the Government and consequently TA-
III was used only as a secondary source of assisting SAP.
H.   Project Sustainability/Future Operations of the Project
24.   Although development of the Government's overall institutional capacity was not directly
built into the design of TA-I1l, it was an important implied objective of the Project, especially in
terms of building capacity of the key policy making and implementation agencies. While the
Project had some success in this regard, the progress in improving the overall policy making and
implementation capacity of the Government agencies remained limited. This was mainly
because only a few Government agencies were able to identify and design appropriate sub-
projects to benefit from the Project. Nevertheless, four major institutional strengthening sub-
projects were initiated under TA-Ill (see para 6.03 above) and were reasonably successful in
improving the planning and implementation capacity of the benefiting agencies.
25.   Moreover, the Government has remained committed to the overall reform and structural
adjustment of the macroeconomy. Hence the commitment to develop the Government's key
policy-making and implementation institutions remains high, both within the Government and in
the donor community. In this regard, the Project's institutional development efforts are likely to
continue. In most cases (Planning Commission, Corporate Law Authority, Pakistan Audit
Department etc.) these efforts are being supplemented by additional resources from donors and
the Government. Notwithstanding the Government's commitment, systemic bottlenecks imply
that substantial and concerted efforts are needed to make desired improvements in institutional



8
capacity in the fields of macroeconomic and sectoral planning, and in policymaking and
implementation.
26.   Concerning the other major objectives and strategies of TA-IlI, it is possible that the
Government will be able to maintain the Project's achievements in the shortrun. The studies and
consultancies financed by the Project not only furnished the Government with technical
evaluations of past and present macroeconomic and sectoral policies, but also recommended
changes in the policy framework, usually with implementation strategy. These studies and
consultants' reports will remain useful to the Government both as reference for the
implementation of the reform program and as a basis for future research and analysis.
27.   Sufficient Govermment financial and manpower resources have been made available for
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the equipment procured with the Project's funds. Also,
the future stream of these O&M resources has been ensured by the Government in the PC-I
proformas of these sub-projects.
I.    Bank Performance
28.   Overall, Bank staff contributed substantially to the smooth working of the project. The
Bank's decision to transfer supervision responsibility for the project to the Resident Mission in
Pakistan (RMP) proved helpful in reducing delays in completing certain sub-projects.
29.   Preparation for TA-III Project started when TA-II was still on-going. As both IDA financed
technical assistance projects (TA-I and TA-II) were quite successful in achievement of their
objectives, it was only logical that TA-III was designed to replicate the two TA projects with some
modifications for making the project implementation more effective by streamlining project
procedures. For this reason alone limited time was budgeted and spent on preparation of TA-III
(only 11% of total staff time consumed by the Project). Substantial success was achieved in
coming to an agreement with the Govermment on certain key actions that were required prior to the
approval of the Project, e.g. identification of studies and sub-projects which were to be financed
from TA-Ill funds. However, with limited time available, not enough attention could be focused on
determining the viability of the suggested procedures for Project implementation. While both the
Government and the Bank were confident about the effectiveness of the procedures, there
implementation was badly affected by the stringent Goverunent rules and procedures, resulting is
significant delays in implementation of the Project.
30.   The Bank was consulted on all project-related matters including the choice of studies,
award of contracts, approval of payments, and other matters relating to the functioning of the TA
Credit. For each of the sub-projects, the Planning Commission was required to submit TORs,
evaluation reports, a draft contract, and other related documents to the Bank for review and
approval, which contributed to an enormous workload for the TAPC and RMP staff. As it had been
agreed that the procurement for all sub-projects would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated August 1981, this workload could have
been reduced somewhat if the Bank's detailed review of procurement had been restricted to the



9
larger studies/sub-projects, while for the remaining sub-projects the TAPC was allowed greater
flexibility in selecting the consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
31.   The Bank's performance could have improved if adequate staff weeks had been devoted to
the Technical Assistance Project both at RMP and Headquarters, especially during the initial phases
of the Project. TA-Ill commenced before TA-II was finalized, and by the time TA-Il closed, TA-IlI
had become fully operational. With two TA Credits operating simultaneously for a time, staff
weeks per TA were effectively reduced to half of that envisaged in the annual work plan.
32.   In cases where the sub-projects were expected to provide support to policy reforms that
were agreed under the Bank's sector loans, there was a visible interest and keener supervision of the
study by the Bank. This contributed to better and more timely products. At other times, quality
and timely completion of a study were compromised because no single organization/agency took
the prime responsibility for the sub-project.
J.    Borrower Performance
33.   Overall, the Planning Commission's performance was mixed during implementation of TA-
TII. Despite the overlap with TA-Il, the Planning Commission's role in preparation of the Project
was quite adequate. Moreover, overall compliance with the Project's covenants remained largely
satisfactory throughout the course of the Project. The one covenant not fully complied with related
to staffing of TAPC, which despite repeated requests from the Bank remained less than adequate
for most part of the course of the Project. The corresponding institutional weakness of TAPC and
procedural bottlenecks badly affected execution of a number of studies and sub-projects (see
below), leading to less than satisfactory borrower performance in overall implementation of the
Project. Furthermore, the Planning Commission took only limited steps to disseminate infornation
on the availability of technical assistance funds for policy-based studies to other public sector
organizations or to provincial governments. In a nurnber of cases, the identification of sub-projects
was driven by proposed Bank sector loans or the Planning Commission's own needs. Additional
studies and sub-projects could have been financed out of the remaining balance if other
Government institutions had been given an adequate opportunity to participate in TA-IlI.
34.   Administrative Delays:  Cumbersome administrative procedures that governed the
approval and executions of sub-projects under TA-Ill affected the overall implementation of the
Project. These procedures involved a multi-stage screening process for the applications and
Terms of Reference for studies, and establishment of a Technical Assistance Evaluation and
Review  Committee (TAERC) for each study/sub-project.  The TAERC  consisted of
representatives from all the concerned parties, i.e. the sponsoring ministry/division/agency, the
corresponding section of the Planning and Development Division (P&D), the Economic Affairs
Division (EAD), a Financial Advisor, the TAPC, and representative(s) of other Government
department(s) or agency(ies) with an interest in the study or sub-project. The main role of the
TAERC was to discuss and approve the study/sub-project. The TAERC was also empowered to
approve or reject the final product of the consultants' work and authorize payment. Though
viewed as an effective forurn to solicit views of the concerned parties and to secure their
approval, the TAERC, because of its diverse composition and resulting varying interests, was



10
often responsible for long delays in the approval of projects. Furthermore, TAERC was
frequently asked to give decisions on routine administrative matters, which resulted in further
delays in the execution of the studies/sub-project.
35.   Inadequate Staffing: Another factor that adversely affected the pace of implementation of
the Project was inadequate staffing of TAPC. Despite repeated requests by the Bank to appoint
separate staff for handling the technical evaluations and the administrative work, the TAPC
continued with one Deputy Secretary and one Section Officer for the greater part of the Project.
Part of the problem stemmed from the ineligibility of TAPC staff for the Secretariat Allowance
amounting to 20% of the basic pay paid to regular Secretariat staff. This made it difficult to induct
and retain suitable staff in TAPC. Due to stringent Government procedures, this problem was not
satisfactorily resolved despite GOP's assurances, and it badly affected the timeliness of the
evaluation, award, and implementation of the sub-projects. The staffing problem was further
compounded by frequent changes at the Project Director (PD) level. During the last two years of
the Project, three PDs were appointed in succession.
K.    Lessons Learned
36.   As mentioned above, complex rules and procedure governing the implementation of TA-III
were partly responsible for the implementation delays faced by the Project. For a future project
similar to TA-Ill, Bank's monitoring and progress report requirements should be simplified and
made less time consuming. A workable solution could be to stipulate that the Bank should be
consulted only on studies exceeding a specified financial limit, or in case of a substantive or
logistical problem. For other studies, an acceptable model contract and letter of invitation should
be used, which need not be submitted to the Bank for each study.3
37.   In order to avoid duplication of effort involved in selection of consultants, and to enable the
sub-projects to contribute to the development of the Government's structural reform program in a
more effective and timely manner, a simplified set of procedures need to be developed, particularly
to ensure that routine administrative matters do not need the review and approval of a relatively
large number of entities.
38.   If the Bank is to be involved with the functioning of a future Technical Assistance Project
of the type of TA-IIl, additional staff weeks should be devoted to field supervision of the TA
Credit. Similarly, GOP's commitment to the objectives of the TA Project should be reinforced by
assigning adequate staff to TAPC to allow the Cell to satisfactorily discharge its monitoring and
supervisory functions.
39.   Effective control of any such future-general purpose TA Credit should be centralized in the
agency responsible for policy planning in the Government, and the Project Director of the TAPC
should be given greater authority to decide on most matters related to the award of studies,
disbursements, and other administrative matters. For evaluation, technical proposals could be
submitted to technical sections of the executing agency and/or the government organization
3Efforts are already underway for developing a standard document for procurement of consultancy services.



11
responsible for the study. The TAERC should be convened only once for the final selection and
award of each study. Monitoring of the sub-projects should be undertaken by the staff of TAPC on
a routine basis.
40.   For each sub-project, one organization should be asked to take primary technical and
administrative responsibility for the product. The selected organization should assist the executing
agency in developing the TORs, evaluating the technical proposals, supervising the consultants, and
carrying out a final evaluation of the product. This would reduce the time and paperwork involved
in the selection and supervision of consultants. If the study is in support of Bank's sector work,
adequate staff weeks for supervision of the sub-project should be allocated, in addition to the staff
weeks required for routine supervision of the TA Project.
41.   If there is to be a future general purpose TA Project, it may be desirable to modify its design
and restrict its scope to only macroeconomic policy and reform issues, involving only the economic
institutions and departments of the Government of Pakistan, such as the Planning Division, the
Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs Division, the State Bank of Pakistan, etc. The funding
needs of sectoral and provincial departments and agencies could be addressed by incorporating TA
components in the Bank's future projects for these provinces and sectors. This arrangement can
effectively resolve the ownership problem faced by TA-III, and would also ensure more effective
control and monitoring of TA by the concerned agencies.
L.    Project Relationship
42.   RMP staff enjoyed a good working relationship with the TA Project Cell, which helped in
minimizing delays in many cases.
M.   Project Documentation and Data
43.   Documentation on TA-III (including the legal documents and project records/files) was of
good quality. Supervision reports included details on project performance, legal covenants,
disbursements, and other relevant issues. They also flagged problem areas and constituted a set of
documents which were of great help in preparation of this ICR.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Introduction
1.    Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International
Development Association was signed on February 20, 1987 with the original Closing Date of
December 31, 1990. However, as only one-third of the Credit was disbursed by December 1990,
the Government and the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date of the Project till December 31,
1993. Payments from the Project's account continued up to April 13, 1994.
B.    Project Implementation
2.    Overall, the project implementation was satisfactory, though at times uneven. The pace of
implementation remained slow on account of several factors. These include: shortage of proper
technical and supporting staff in the Technical Assistance Project Cell (TAPC), which was caused
by the procedural requirements of the Government of Pakistan; inflexible environment for the
Project Director to take final decisions; delays in formulating and convening the meetings of
TAERCs; and delays at the Bank in giving final clearances.
3.    Most of the sub-projects and studies conducted from TA-IIl funding were completed in
time and within the stipulated costs. A majority of these studies and sub-projects were undertaken
to provide input into Government's macroeconomic and sectoral policies, and/or to develop the
overall institutional capacity of the Government. For example, a number of studies were
undertaken for the National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) which provided the background
research for the NCA Report--the main Government document of agriculture sector policy.
Similarly, studies were also undertaken to assist formulation of the Eighth Five Year Plan. Some
TA-IIl studies helped the CBR and Ministry of Finance to devise and implement a more effective
fiscal policy. Almost all the projects achieved their desired results.
4.    Regarding the development of institutional capacity, the Sub-Project for Agriculture Price
Commission (APCom), the Auditor General Office Sub-Project, Computerization and Office
Automation Sub-Projects for the Planning Division, and Computerization of the Corporate Law
Authority were important sub-projects undertaken under TA-III. These sub-projects were designed
to improve the efficiency and capacity of Government's key policy-making agencies. These
projects were extremely successful in achieving the desired results. The start of the Planning
Division's computerization, however, was considerably delayed due to difficulties faced by the
Planning Division in disposing-off the old NCR computer.



13
5.    The sub-project on the Export Information System for the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)
was the only assignment undertaken under TA-III which could not be completed. Considerable
delays occurred in this sub-project and only 26 out of a total 50 reports were received by the
sponsors. The Consultant maintained that the remaining reports were too lengthy to be printed but
could be made available on request. Negotiations between the consultants and SBP caused further
delays, and the lack of unanimity between the two parties on the precise nature of the study's
requirements ultimately led to abandoning the sub-project rendering it "incomplete".
6.    The Gas Peak Shaving Study, faced considerable delays in getting started because of the
difference of opinion between the Planning Division and the World Bank as regards the submission
of technical and financial proposals. The Planning Division desired separate submissions of the
technical and financial proposals on the grounds that it lacks adequate facilities to safeguard the
confidentiality of financial proposals for a prolonged period of time. The Bank's procedures,
however, allow only for a joint submission. Request was made to the Bank to allow separate
submission of technical and financial proposals which was declined.
7.    Minor delays also occurred in the completion of the two studies titled, Rice Export
Operations and Cotton Export Operations. Both studies, undertaken by the same consultant, were
delayed due to data snags, delays in receiving comments from the sponsors, and the "piece-meal"
nature of these comments. The study on user charges in higher education, however, was abandoned
before being commissioned as the GOP was not certain about the need for this study.
8.    Only a few studies experienced cost over-runs, mainly because of unforeseen reasons. In
most cases inflation was responsible for these over-runs. However, in some cases it was the time
consuming procedures and lack of flexible environment for taking final decisions which delayed
the commencement of the study, which consequently led to some, albeit minor, escalation in costs.
C.    Conclusion
9.    The implementation of the project could, therefore, be termed as mixed. While the project
was reasonably successful in achieving its goal of assistance for Government's policy and reform
program, its implementation performance remained less than desired. The following lessons
emerge form the overall implementation of TA-IIl which would help improve the design of any
future Technical Assistance Program::
(i)   For future projects like TA-IlI, besides the periodic supervision of the project
undertaken by the Bank, a mid-term review is essential, wherein the execution problems are
identified and steps towards their resolution taken jointly be the Bank and the executing
agency.
(ii)  In order to reduce the procedural delays, approval of the Bank should be made
mandatory only for larger projects involving amounts larger than a pre-determined limit,
while authority may be granted to the executing agency to approve smaller sub-projects,
albeit through a pre-specified procedure.



14
(iii) To make technical assistance funds more effective in building the institutional
capacity of the Government, a part of these funds may be earmarked for short-training of
the Government officials, locally and abroad, in the various policy related fields, e.g.,
environment, forecasting techniques and policy simulation, fiscal management,
management of foreign debt and capital, etc.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 1755-PAK)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A.   Achievement of objectives
Substantial        Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
(X)              (X)               (X)              (X)
Macro policies                     L                                                LE
Sector policies                 L                L                L                   C
Financial objectives                 L        EW                                       LE |  C
Institutional development            LE               EL       0                  0
Physical objectives              LE                      W                            L
Poverty reduction                  Ci                L      E       D                 L
Gender issues                                         W           D C                O
Other social objectives            LE                D                   L      E
Environmental objectives                L                                                LE
Public sector management             LE                L                  0               L
Private sector development               LW 0                     
Other (specify)                    L                                                 LE
(Continued)



16
B.   Project Sustainability                   Likely               Unlikely          Uncertain
(X)                   (X)                   (X)
C.  Bank Performance                         Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
(X)                   (X)                   (X)
Identification                          m                        L                     L
Preparation Assistance                    D                     0iii
Appraisal                               m                     F C          
Supervision                             [I                     L  Ifl
D.  Borrower performance                     Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactorv            Deficient
(X)                   (X)                   (X)
Preparation                             1X0 1                                         D
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                             D                     D
Operation (if applicable)                 D                     D                     DX
E.   Assessment of Outcome                   Highly
satisfactorv         Satisfactory            Deficient
(X)                   (X)                   (X)
D  w  D



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit                      Purpose                      Approval    Status
Title
TA-I           To support the GOP's adjustment and reform         1982    Completed
Cr-1256        programs agreed under SAL I by assisting macro-             in 1985
economic planning, agricultural pricing, industrial
planning and incentive reforms, and support for
project preparation activities to strengthen the
Bank's project pipeline.
TA-II          To provide continued support to the Government     1984    Completed
Cr- 1480       in the development of policy reform programs in            in 1989
agriculture, industry, energy and other key sectors
of the economy; and to strengthen the Planning
Commission through establishment of a
comprehensive computer network.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Item                             Date Planned         Date Revised         Actual
Identification/Preparation       March 1986           March 1986           March 1986
Appraisal                         September 25, 1986   September 25, 1986   September 25, 1986
Completion of Negotiations       November 17, 1986   November 17, 1986    November 21, 1986
Board Approval                   January 20, 1987     January 20, 1987     January 20, 1987
Credit Effectiveness             February 20, 1987    February 20, 1987    February 20, 1987
Credit Closing                   December 31, 1990    December 31, 1990    December 31, 1993
Project Completion               June 30, 1991        June 30, 1991        April 13, 1994



18
Table 4: Project Disbursements
ACTUAL               ACTUAL              ORIGINAL    REVISED
QUARTERLY            CUMULATIVE   CUMULATIVE CUMULATIVE
FISCAL             DISBURSEMENTS  DISBURSEMENTS    TARGETS    TARGETS
YEAR   PERIOD         (US S Million)        (US $ Million)      (US $ Million)   (US $ Million)
1987    Jun. 1987         0.80                  0.80                 0.30             0.81
1988    Sep. 1987         0.00                  0.80                 0.60             0.81
Dec. 1987        0.00                  0.80                 0.90             0.81
Mar. 1988        0.45                   1.25                1.30             1.26
Jun. 1988        0.38                  1.63                 1.80             1.64
1989    Sep. 1988         0.00                  1.63                 2.30             1.64
Dec. 1988        0.00                   1.63                2.80             1.64
Mar. 1989        0.12                  1.75                 3.30             1.76
Jun. 1989        0.25                  2.00                 3.80             2.01
1990    Sep. 1989         0.06                  2.06                 4.30             3.07
Dec. 1989        0.27                  2.33                 4.80             2.34
Mar. 1990        0.03                  2.36                 5.30             2.37
Jun. 1990        0.18                  2.54                 5.80             2.55
1991    Sep. 1990         0.00                  2.54                 6.10             2.75
Dec. 1990        0.00                  2.54                 6.40             3.00
Mar. 1991        0.00                  2.54                 6.70             3.25
Jun. 1991         0.00                 2.54                 7.00             3.50
1992    Sep. 1991         0.05                  2.59                 --               3.75
Dec. 1991        0.00                  2.59                  --              4.00
Mar. 1992        0.00                  2.59                  --              4.25
Jun. 1992        0.09                  2.68                  --              4.50
1993    Sep. 1992         0.11                  2.79                 --               4.75
Dec. 1992        0.31                  3.10                  -               5.00
Mar. 1993        0.35                  3.45                  --              5.25
Jun. 1993        0.24                  3.69                  --              5.75
1994    Sep. 1993         0.57                  4.26                 --               6.25
Dec. 1993        0.55                  4.81                  --              6.50
Mar. 1994        0.60                  5.41                  --              6.75
Jun. 1994        0.57                  5.98                  -               7.00



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in
President's Report                         Unit         Estimated           Actual            Percent
Studies/ Consultancies/ Sub-projects
Setors
F   No.s            8                 18                225.0
1. Macroeconomic Management
L   US$           1,365              2,384              174.7
F   No.s            5                  4                80.0
2. Agriculture                             u
L   US$            860               1,625              188.9
F   No.s            5                  2                40.0
3. Industry & Minerals
US$           1,620              552                34.1
F   No.s            4                  1                25.0
4. Transport
L   US$            520                27                 5.1
[   No.s            2                  2                100.0
5. EducationI
L   US$            105                52                49.4
[   No.s            3                  1                33.3
6. Urban
L   US$            265                105               39.8
r   No.s           --                  6                  --
7. OthersI
L   US$           2,265              1,248              55.1
F   No.s           --                 34                 --
TOTAL
US$           7,000              5,993              85.6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)



20
Table 7: Objectives and Impact of Studies and Sub-Projects
STUDIES/SUB-PROJECTS/                                   TOTAL
CONSULTANCIES                     SPONSORING         COST
AGENCY           (tUS S)                    OBJECTIVE                                     IMPACT/COMMENT
I. Medium Tem Fiscal Policy and Resource        Planning Division        19,086 To formulate medium term fiscal policy         Provided input into formulation of
Mobilization Study                                                         concentrating on measures for improving          Federal budgets and Govemment's
resource mobilization.                          fiscal policy and to improvement of
dialogue with the Bank and the IMF.
2. Study on Design and Implementation of Tax    Finance Division        373,596 Designing and implementing a manufacturer's/    The Study provides a thorough analysis of the
Reform Study.                                                              importer's Value Added Tax, develop              tax structure, highlighting its weaknesses and
altematives for restructuring company           making recommendations on how to improve the
taxation, and improving the administration      tax structure. Some of the recommendations of the
of overall tax system in the country.           Study were adopted in subsequent Federal budgets.
3  Agriculture Diversification Study            Planning Division       262,193 To determine factors which determine           The study provided planning and
diversification, comparative advantage, and     operational guidelines for investment,
efficiency in Pakistan's agriculture sector,    technical support and other public sector
especially in context to minor crops, poultry   actions which would strengthen
and livestock.                                  Govemment's agricultural policy regarding
diversification, enhanced productivity,
and improved marketing under the Seventh
Five Year Plan.
4  Export Finance Review                        Pakistan Banking         77,146 To determine the effectiveness of export       The study highlighted the bottlenecks
Council                       financing policy and suggest improvements        in export finance and suggested remedies
in the policy.                                 to improve the situation. Only a few of its
recommendations were, however, adopted.
5  Export Sector Information System             State Bank of            24,992 To review the performance and potential of Pakistan's   The study was abandoned as incomplete due to lack of
Pakistan                       exports and to improve information flow regarding  understanding between the consultants and the SBP over the
exports by making it more extensive and timely.  objective of the study.
6  Export Quality Improvement                   Ministry of              53,917 To provide guideline and action plans for      Study successfully completed. Recommendations of
Industries                     quality control of Pakistani exports.           the Study were partly adopted in successive trade
policy announcements.



21
Table 7 (Contd.): Objectives and Impact of Studies and Sub-Projects
STUDIES/SUB-PROJECTS/                                      TOTAL
CONSULTANCIES                      SPONSORING           COST
AGENCY            (US S)                      OBJECTIVE                                       IMPACTICOMMENT
7  Rice Export Operations                         National                  75,327 To enhance RECPs export capacity by                The Study undertaken as a part
Commission on                   improving Pakistan's rice competitiveness.         of Bank's ASAL, recommended
Agriculture                                                                        improvements in RECPs procurement,
transpott and export operations
consolidation of RECPs financial
performance; and increase in retums to
rice exports.
8  Cotton Export Operations                       National                  90,320 To enhance CECP's export capacity by               Also undertaken as part of ASAL, the
Commission on                   improving Pakistan's competitiveness in            Study made useful recommendations for
Agriculture                     cotton exports.                                    improvements in CECPs operations.
9   Coordinator for Rice and Cotton Studies.      National                   16,157 To consolidate the recommendations of             Despite some delays the consolidation
Commission on                  fte above two reports.                              was completed to provide input into
Agriculture                                                                        Govemments policy.
10 Experts for Basha Dam                          Watcr and Power          273,552 To evaluate the adequacy and sufficiency           Undertaken as part of Bank's sector operations.
Development                     of the existing feasibility study, and other       The consultants evaluated the existing feasibility
Authority                       technical assistance to the Govemment.             study; prepared the draft tender docunments;
identified additional studies and site
investigations; prepared TOR's for the
consultants etc..
II Housing Census for Shelter Sector              Ministry of              105,147 To update the existing housing infornation.       Among other uses, the survey provided
Housing and                                                                        updated information for the preparation
Works                                                                              of the proposed World Bank's operation
in the housing sector.
12 AJK Mineral Sector Study                       Govemment of             432,583 To provide technical evaluation of mineral        Provided input into AIK Government's mineral
Azad Jummu and                   potential of the region and to identify           sector policy.
Kashmir                         institutional and administrative weakness
affecting development of mineral sector.



22
Table 7 (Contd.): Objectives and Impact of Studies and Sub-Projects
STUDIES/SUB-PROJECTS/                                      TOTAL
CONStJLTANCIES                     SPONSORING           COST
AGENCY            (tlS $)                     OBJECTIVE                                       IMPACT/COMMENT
13 Gas Peak Shaving Study                         Ministry of              683,550 To determine the feasibility of storing            Besides providing relevant information to
Petroleum and                   natural gas in an abandoned oil field              the govemment, the study provided inputs
Natural Resources               at slack period to be remained at peak             into Bank's sector operations in the energy sector.
periods.
14 Studies for Economic and Social Well-          Planning Division         86,275 A series (i6) small studies on various             Studies successfully completed with
Being                                                                          macro-economic aspects to provide input            minor change in scope of two studies and
to Govemment's Eighth Five Year Plan.             provided background material for the
preparation of Eighth Five Year Plan.
15 Consultants for Federal Bureau of Statistics   Federal Bureau of         22,365 To improve Govemment's data collection techniques  Being the main data collection and compilation
Statistics                      and the analytical capacity of the FBS.            agency of the Govemment, FBS lacks the analytical
capacity to analyze the data and present it in a more
user friendly format. The consultant helped the FBS
to overcome this shortcoming to a certain extent.
16 Consultants for National Commission on        National                  72,670 To undertake 6 small studies as background        The NCA was constituted to make
Agriculture                                   Commission on                    papers for NCA Report.                            recommendations to the Govemment on
Agriculture                                                                        sectoral policy issues. The background
papers provided useful input into the
NCA report.
17 Consultants for Central Board of Revenues     Central Board of          53,849 To determine the incidence of taxes, and          The reports provided inputs into Federal budgets
Revenues                        additional revenue potentials of Customs           and Govemment's fiscal policy.
duties, taxes on leather, textiles and
engineering good, and fashion garments
industries.
18 Corporate Plan for Pakistan Railways           Ministry of               26,740 Preparation of Action Plan for making             Action Plan prepared though not fully
Railways                        the Production Wing of Pakistan Railways into      implemented by the Govemment.
an economically viable corporation.
19 Consultant for Ministry of Finance             Finance Division          40,000 Assistance to the Finance Division to             Debt auction program has been successfully
design and implement a program for auction        implemented.
of Government debt.



23
Table 7 (Contd.): Objectives and Impact of Studies and Sub-Projects
STUDIES/SUB-PROJECTS/                                      TOTAL
CONSItLTANCIES                     SPONSORING           COST
AG E NCY          (US $)                      OBJECTIVE                                       IMPACT/COMMENT
20 Agriculture Pricing Policy Study               Agriculture Price        233,493 To determine the adequacy of Govemment's           The Study highlighted flaws in Govemments
Commission                      pricing policy regarding agricultural              agricultural policy. Some of its recommendations
commodities and to suggest appropriate            were incorporated in GOP's sectoral policy.
changes in the policy.                            Also provided input into World Bank's operations
and ESW.
21  Consultants for National Technology Policy.   Ministry of Science      119,380 Assisted Ministry of petroleum and Natural         Consultants' work was extremely useful
and Technology                  Resources in formulation of new technology         in formulation of new technology policy.
policy. Provided input into Bank's operation      Furthermore, it provided input into Bank's
in the industry and technology areas.             operation in the sector.
22  Education Data for Social Action Program      Ministry of               20,075 To collect and compile education related           Provides essential information for
(NEMIS)                                       Education                        data on national basis.                            monitoring of SAP and other Education
policies.
23  Higher Education and Scientific Research.     Ministry of               31,867 To assist the Govemment in identifying and         Besides assisting the Govemment in identifying
Education                       preparing a project in the area of higher education  the issues related to higher education, the sub-
and scientific research.                          project also provided input into the preparation of
proposed World Bank on higher education.
24  SAP Consultant for Government of Punjab.      Government of              8,808 To help the Govemment of Punjab to effectively     Being part of the TA-Ill component earmarked
Punjab                          coordinate and consolidate the SAP related         for SAP, the sub-project helped the provincial SAP
issue emanating from various sectors.             Secretariat to formalize the Operational Plans by
coordinating between various SAP related provincial
departments and the MSIJ.
25 Social Sector Expenditures.                    Government of             22,121 To assess the financial parameters of Government's  As classification of expenditures used by the
Punjab                          and donors' involvement in the past and the        Govemment fails to correctly identify the extent of
effectiveness of these expenditures on quantitative  expenditures incurred on SAP priority sectors, the
and qualitative improvements in the SAP priority  Study was undertaken to assess the level of
sectors.                                          Govemment and donor funded expenditures in these
sectors.



24
Table 7 (Contd.): Objectives and Impact of Studies and Sub-Projects
STUDIESISUB-PROJECTS/                                   TOTAL
CONStULTANCIES                   SPONSORING          COST
AGENCY           (tlS S)                    OBJECTIVE                                     IMPACT/COMMENT
26 Consultant for Projects Wing.                Planning Division        39,978 To design and implement a computer based        With the successful implementation of the computer
MIS for development projects to help            based MIS, the efficiency of the Projects
the Govemment in timely and effective           Wing has visibly increased.
monitoring of its development portfolio.
27 Staff Study Tour of South Korea.             Finance Division         27,1 5S To help the Govemment officials benefit        Study tour was successful as an on-hand learning
from the successes of other developing          experience for Pakistan's policy makers.
countries.
28 Support for Agriculture Price Commission.    Agriculture Price     1,056,158 To increase efficiency and effectiveness of     Institutional capacity of APCom was
Commission                     Agriculture Price Commission in analyzing       significantly improved by providing it with
recent development and setting procurement      equipment and training its staff, locally and
prices of agricultural commodities.             abroad.
29 Support for Auditor General Office.          Pakistan Audit         1,094551 To increase the efficiency of the Auditor      Not only was the institutional capacity of
Department                     General's Office and thus improve the           the Auditor General's Office enhanced by
overall monitoring of Govemment finances        providing it with consultants, equipment
and timeliness of financial reporting.          and staff training for its staff, the sub-project also
formed the basis for further technical assistance for
PAD.
30 Computerization of Corporate Law Authority.  Corporate Law           237,727 To improve the efficiency of CLA and the        Lack of adequate equipment had hampered
Authority                      Monopoly Control Authority.                     CLA in performing its functions
of registering and monitoring private corporate
sector and in its efforts to enforce the anti-trust
Laws. Computerization has helped CLA to
overcome this deficiency. The sub-project was also
a source of additional TA for CLA from intemational
donors.
31 Computerization of Planning Division.        Planning Division       241,822 To enhance the efficiency and effectiveness    New computer equipment for the Planning
of the Planning Commission.                     Commission is expected to improve the
overall planning process in the country by increasing.
the efficiency of the premier policy making institution.



25
Table 7 (Contd.): Objectives and Impact of Studies and Sub-Projects
STUDIES/SUB-PROJECTSI                                      TOTAL
CONStlLTANCIES                     SPONSORING           COST
AGENCY            (US $)                      OBJECTIVE                                        IMPACT/COMMENT
32 Office Automation of Planning Division.        Planning Division        289,151 To help Planning Commission improve                Provision of fast speed copiers and printers
its time and cost efficiency and produce          and improvement of Planning Commission's
quality documents.                                telephone facility has improved the
quality of documents produced by Planning
Commission and has cut down its costs
significantly.
33  Karachi Port Trust Workshop.                  Karachi Port Trust        21,842 To solicit views of experts on how to              The papers presented in the workshop
improve country's exports.                        highlighted the policy changes required
to enhance Pakistan's export potential.
34  Eighth Plan Seminar.                          Planning Division         32,331 To solicit views of experts belonging to the       The seminar was the key forum for
Govemment and non-government sector               formulating conceptual background for the
on various issues regarding the present           Eighth Five Year Plan.
economic and social situation and the
required future policy direction



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)      Actual (US$ million)
Local     Foreign               Local      Foreign
costs     Costs      Total      costs      Costs      Total
Item
1. Studies & Consultancies             n.a.       n.a.     5.610       1.406      3.338      4.744
2. Equipment and Training              n.a.       n.a.      1.390      0.788      0.877       1.665
3. Counterpart Staff & Support Services  1.500    0.000     1.500       1.9         0         1.9
TOTAL                   2.600      5.900     8.500      4.094       4.215      8.309
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)        Actual (US$ million)
Local      Foreign                Local       Foreign
costs      Costs      Total       costs        Costs      Total
Item
IBRD/IDA                          1.100      5.900      7.000       1.778        4.215      5.993
Domestic                          1.500      0.000       1.500      2.316        0.000      2.316
TOTAL                 2.600       5.900      8.500       4.094        4.215      8.309



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No net present value or economic rate of return was estimated, as such measures are not relevant for this type
of project.



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement Section     Type             Date       Date       Description of Covenant         Comments
DCA    3               M      ACT                         The Borrower shall establish    Partially
Complied.
para I (a)                                        and maintain T.A. Unit with     The staffing of the
duly qualified staff in sufficient    Unit remained
number.                        insufficient and
inadequate for a
large part of
project duration.
DCA    3             M, T      OK                         The Borrower shall review with
para I (b)                                         IDA recommendations arising
from evaluation program of
activities under Technical
Assistance Project (Cr 1256-PAK)
and implement such recommenda-
tions, as appropriate, during the
execution of the Project.
DCA    3             M, T      OK                         The Borrower shall from time to
para 2                                            time exchange views and review
with IDA the objectives of the
sub-projects, the structure and
policy reform measures arising
from the Sub-projects, and imple-
mentation schedule of such
reforms.
DCA    3               F       OK                         The Borrower to furnish to IDA
para 3 (a)                                        at regular intervals all such
information that IA shall request
concerning the Projects, its cots
and benefits.



29
Table 10 (Contd.): Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant  Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement  Section     Type              Date       Date      Description of Covenant        Comments
DCA    3              M, T      OK                         The Borrower shall select Sub-
para 3 (b)                                         projects and review their status
with IDA at least once during
implementation, and incorporate
IDA's comments arising from
these reviews.
DCA    Article IV       F       OK                         The Borrower shall furnish to
para 4.01 (b)                                      IDA audited accounts of the
project and copy of the certified
audit report.
Legend
Covenant Type                            Statu
E - Economic                             ACT - Needs use of remedies to bring to compliance
F - Financial                            NYD - Not yet due
M - Managerial                           OK - Covenant complied with
T - Technical                            RVS - Needs to be revised



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all major Operational Manual Statements.



31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                            Planned                 Revised                  Actual
project cycle                  Weeks        US$    |  Weeks         US$   r  Weeks          US$
Through appraisal               n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            18.8    21.1
Appraisal - Board               n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            14.4    19.1
Board - Effectiveness           n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            n.a.    n.a.
Supervision                     n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            81.5    80.1
Completion                      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.             1.8    0.6
TOTAL                 n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.          116.5   120.9
n.a. = not available



32
Table 13: Bank Resources
Specialized Implemen- Develop-
Stage of              Months/             Number of Days in    staff skills  tation     ment    Types of
project cycle         year                persons    field      represented  status     status    problems
Through appraisal     Mar, 1986                     2         19   E, n.a.
Sep, 1986                    2         11   E, n.a.
Appraisal through              --
Board approval
Board approval                 --
through effectiveness
Supervision           Jul/Aug, 1987                2          28   E, n.a.        2         1        M
Sep., 1990                   2         30   E, n.a.        2          1       M
Mar, 1991 \1                 1         15      C           --        --      M, T
Jun/Jul, 1991 \2             2         17    I, E          --        --       --
Nov/Dec, 1991 \2             2         19    1,C           --        --       --
Dec, 1991                    1         10      E           3          1      M,F
May/Jun 1992 \2              2         16    I, C          --        --       --
Sep, 1992                    1         18      E           2         1        M
Oct/Nov, 1992\2              3         22   1, C,T         --        --       --
Jun, 1993                    1         16      E           2          1       M
Completion            Oct. 1995                     1         13      E           2         1
\1 Planning Commission's Computerization Component.
\2 Pakistan Audit Department component.
Legend
E - Economist; C - Computer Specialist; T - Training Specialist; I - Institutional Development Expert.
M - Managerial; F - Financial; T - Technical.



IBRD 27617
600                             650                            70c          ITAJIKISTAN  750           i
1 .'~.-',--CHINA
PAKISTAN
      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               -'. .  ...... 
_ 350                    tS    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                             A J}i_    35-
a ~~~~~            I         Le~~~~be of Conto
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                         N         -                         1A . A3
Peshawarr-'       ISqAhBAD
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          /                           JAMMU
RIVERS                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and KASHMIR
----RIVERS i-884  
}                                             8               )   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i';      '**'^r.
30' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~10
t~~                                                                          ~ ~~~~~~ -    -    ,,QRE.
w / E z .- ; t ui\JNLAB r ,. 
30      */                                           t                                          f    
,   Quetta                                                                   30 -
K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
\                                                                                 ,,---       
'*"4  'K --                         .                            t.-S- -INDIA
ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF   I                                                        .-
IRAN            '^t-            ,-.- 
AN                     .        .        .       g,                 0       100     200      300 Kilomefers
25-                                                                                                         100          200 Miles
,!"" ,rNU .                            ,                                                                           25-
The boundaries, colors,
denominrotons and any
Q5                   .             \                           other information shown
Karochi                                                             on this mop do not
imply, on the part of
ARABIA4OJ                                                                                      The World Bank Group,
SE,                         . >  J   _                   any judgment on the legal
status   of ony  territory,
                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or any endorsement
>0." r . 'or acceptance of such
ri.r Ji s.   s  ^boundaries.
60                                 65                                 70                                 750
DECEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No.:         16416
Type:      ICR



