IOFFICIAL
D COCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1755 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Technical Assistance Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated cseq2F kO, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1755 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       FbIZLCut    (       , 1987, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President         (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Sub-project" means a particular study, a consulting
service, training or provision of equipment to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(c) "Planning and Development Division" means the Planning
and Development Division of the Borrower's Ministry of Planning
and Development.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) below, the amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with allocations of the proceeds of the Credit to be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association pursuant to Section 3.01
of this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  Except as the Borrower and the Association may other-
wise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be limited
to:
(i) studies, consulting services and training, 100%
of expenditures;
(ii) equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% of
local expenditures for items procured locally.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(A) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods and services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
(B)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Bor-
rower.
(c)  No withdrawals shall be made out of the Credit Account
for payments made before the date of this Agreement except for
those made between September 1, 1986 and said date to carry out


﻿-3-
Sub-projects related to the work program of the Borrower's
National Commission on Agriculture up to the amount of SDR
170,000 equivalent.
(d)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the National Bank of Pakistan a special
account in United States dollars on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out   of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such  later   date  as  the  Association   shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled..
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1997, and ending December 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-4-
on December 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule I to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section:
(i) Sub-projects and the allocation thereto of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by
agreement   between    the   Borrower    and   the
Association,   taking   into   consideration   the
eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(ii) except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree,  procurement  of   the  goods  and  consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until  at   least  one  year   after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account


﻿-6-
was   made,   all   records  (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation,  can   be  relied  upon   to  support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower shall have evaluated
the consultants' proposals for Sub-projects to be implemented
during the first year of the Project, selected appropriate
consultants and negotiated contracts with such consultants.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that Division
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
/               Authorilzed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
14   8    Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
structural and policy reform programs to be undertaken in various
areas and sectors of the economy.
The Project consists of various Sub-projects which would
include, inter alia, ongoing support for the macro-economic
management process, and support for the Borrower's structural and
policy   reform  programs   in  industry,   energy,  agriculture,
transport, education and urban sectors.
The Sub-projects to be selected by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association shall meet at least one of the
following eligibility criteria, namely that the Sub-project will:
(1) assist the Borrower in its macro-economic management;
(2)  review the policy reform framework and the process of
policy reform;
(3)   identify specific policy reform measures in priority
areas and sectors and analyze the probable impact of such policy
reform measures; and
(4)   design strategies, programs or schedules, for the
implementation of policy reform measures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Equipment for upgrading the main frame computer of the
Planning and Development Division shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods except for the equipment for upgrading
the main frame computer of the Planning and Development Division
shall be procured through prudent shopping.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)   the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with respect toall
contracts. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of


﻿- 11 -
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment  shall  be  satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.   Project Implementation Framework
(a) The Borrower shall maintain the Unit established under
the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1256-PAK) in the Inter-
national Economic Section of the Borrower's Ministry of Planning
and Development, with duly qualified and experienced staff in
sufficient numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) review with the Association recommendations aris-
ing from the evaluation program of the activities
under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1256-PAK); and
(ii) implement such recommendations, as appropriate,
during the execution of the Project.
2.   Borrower's Commitment to the Sub-projects
The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views and
review  with   the  Association:   (a)  the  objectives   of  the
Sub-projects; (b) the structural and policy reform measures
arising  from  the  Sub-projects; and    (c)  the  implementation
schedules for such reform measures.
3.   Reporting and Review Requirements
(a)    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
compliance with a format to be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association:
(i) quarterly progress reports on the status of all
Sub-projects; and
(ii) annual reports on the overall progress of the
Project including the fulfillment of the Project
objectives  set  forth  in  Schedule   1  to  this
Agreement.
(b)   (i) The Association shall, in consultation with the
Borrower: (A) select the Sub-projects for review; and (B) conduct


﻿- 13 -
a review at least once during the implementation of the
Sub-project.
(ii) the Borrower shall incorporate the Association's
comients arising from the review referred to in paragraph (i)
above for the purpose of completing said Sub-projects.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Sub-projects in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b)    the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Accoun: for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Sub-
projects, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 15 -
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
.this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Sub-projects, minus the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Sub-projects shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
Eurnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
chall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further


﻿- 16 -
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


