Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8658
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
HIC-HER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2208-PE)
MAY 25, 1990
Human Resources Operations Unit
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS
IDB    Inter-American Development Bank
MEF    Ministry of Economics and Finance
NAU    National Agrarian University
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
CURRENCY
Currency Unit: 1000 Soles -1 Inti as of 01101/86
At Appraisal:   US$1   S/.550
At Completion: US$1 - I/.1200
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0fic t4 Dweciwv.Gufw.i
May 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  PERU - Higher Agricultural
Education Project (Loan 2208-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Peru - Higher Agricultural Education
Project (Loan 2208-PE)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this rime.
Attachment
This document has a rtdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be diselosd without World Bank authodration.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2208-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ...........*0..........................................                            i
Evaluation Summary  ........                ...........     ........*...........         iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                      .........     1
Project Ideutity  ......................................................             1
Background  ........................................................                 1
Project Objectives and Description  ........................                         2
Project Design and Organization  ...........                   ................      3
Project Implementation  .*.....**....*.**........ *...**...                          3
Project Results  .............   ..........................................          4
Project Sustainability  . ............................ . ..... .                     5
Bank Performance  . ...........                        ... ..*.* .... . .... .       5
Borrower Performance  ..........................                   .......... .      6
Project Relationship  ....................................................           7
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ...O....                          9
PART III:   SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA  ...... ...................                        11
Annex 1    - Related Bank Loans  ...........**    .........**...                           11
Annex 2    - Project Timetable                     ..................................      12
Annex 3          A.   Loan Disbursements  ......................... ....                   13
B.   Project Implementation  ........................                    13
Annex 4    - Project Costs and Financing  ........................                         14
A.   Project Costs  .................................                    14
B.   Project Financing  ......               ...... *.....*...           15
Annex 5    - Project Results  ........... .........................                        16
A.  Direct Benefits  ..... ... .. ...  .......   ...........              16
Annex 6    - Status of Covenants  .......                 .................... ...         17
Annex 7    - Use of Bank Resources  ..............................                         18
A.   Staff Inputs  ..         ........ .... .. .... .............         18
B.  Mission Data  .......... .... ...................... .......         18i
ATTACHMENT I:   Comments from the Borrwer   ......................                         19
This document hass restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otiberwise be discosed without World Bank authoriation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2208-PE)
PREFACE
Tnis is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Higher
Agricultural Education Project in Peru, for which Loan 2208-PE in the
amount of US$17.30 million was approved on September 11, 1982.  The project
account was closed on December 31, 1988, the original closing date.
This PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Division of the
Technical Department in the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the record of the
Board discussion of this project, the Loan Agreement, and material in the
Bank's file pertaining to this project.
The draft PCR (Parts I and III) were sent to the Borrower with the
request to prepare Part II but none was received. However, a copy of the
draft PCR was discussed with the project implementation anit staff and the
Directorate of Public Credit within the Ministry of Economics and Finance
(MEF) during a field mission from March 13 to 21, 1989. Comments received
were taken into account in finalizing the PCR.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent by OED to the Borrower and its agencies for comment
in March 1990.   Comments received have been reproduced, in English, as
Attachment I.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2208-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMURY
Introduction
At the time of project development the Peruvian Government was
trying to implement a multi-faceted agricultural development strategy in
order to revitalize the agricultural sector. Availability of high quality
professionals in agriculture and related occupations was viewed as essen-
tial to implement the strategy which included complementary investments in
agricultural infrastructure, price incentives to farmers, and rebuilding
extension services and research (para. 1).
gbiectives and Proiect Content
The project focused on strengthening the National Agrarian
University (NAU), the only one out of 19 Peruvian Universities viewed as
capable of producing high level professionals for the agricultural sector
(paras. 2 and 3). The project's principal objectives were to: improve the
quality of instruction of graduate and undergraduate students especially in
agricultural economics; upgrade skills of professionals working in agri-
cultural extension, teaching, research and public administJation; and
contribute to further develop applied agricultural research (para. 4). The
project included the folloving four components:   rehabilitation and
expansion of the RAU campus at La Molina, Lima; construction of four NAU-
affiliated Regional Development Institutes; teacher upgrading; and tech-
nical assistance to overhaul the agricultural economics program at NAU.
Imylementation Experience
Project implementation was extremely slow, spanning over six
years.   Total disbursements by project closing date were only US$3.5
million or just 20X of the total US$17.3 commitment.   The substantial
project implementation delays were due in part to factors beyond project
control (political instability, and insufficient financial support by the
government for the project, rapidly raising inflation.   However, design
factors also played an important role includings (i) the Bank's agreement
to a poorly conceived financial plan for provision of counterpart funds
which depended on the sale of NAU's land, which in fact was not legally
possible; (ii) ineffective project administration (highly centralized
decision making, cumbersome administrative procedures, and inadequate
oversight of the project by a part-time project coordinator); (iii) serious
inefficiencies in the contracting of civil works, exacerbated during the
final year of project execution by the severe scarcity of construction
material in the local market (paras. 8, 9 and 20).



- iv -
Results
The comparison between project results and appraisal objectives is
complicated because (i) quality objectives such as Improvements in agricul-
tural economics were not realized at all; And (ii) project eomponent. were
only partially implemented (para. 10-12). Although overall project per-
formance was far below acceptable Bank standards, the project achieved a
modicum of success in meeting select objectives, particularly given the low
percentage of loan disbursement (201). The rehabilitation and expansion of
the HAD campus in La Molina, Lima, was largely achieved, although no con-
struction and equipping of research facilities was undertaken because of
counterpart funds shortages. The professional upgrading of faculty compc-
nent was highly successful, with regard to overseas long term training with
1001 for Ph.D degrees and 252 for M.S. All of the targeted numbers of
teachers were trained and returned to NMU. Short-term training, however,
fell short of targets (602). Of the four NAU-affiliated regional develop-
ment institutes which were to be strengthened, only one was virtually
completed (about 90?); only partial equipping of the remaining three was
attained.   Finally, the technical assistance component to overhaul the
graduate program in agricultural economics was tarted, but never completed
(para". 10-12).
Sustainability
Institutional development objectives for NAU were not achieved
because:
{i) no attempt was made to limit enrollment growth,
(ii) curriculum reform measures were not instituted,
(iii) the NAU-affiliated regional development institutes and
research facilities failed to materialize, and
(iv) agricultural policies encouraging sectoral development were
never implemented.
Given these circumstances and the fact the project did not achieve its
major objectives, it is unlikely that benefits will be sustainable.
Findinas and Lessons
The project appraisal was overly optimistic regarding the
Borrower's financial ability and commitment to the project, resulting in a
major impasse in launching project execution, immediately after appraisal
and Board approval. Experience with this project suggests that during the
early years of project implementation the Bank should have intensified
supervision and reassessed the status of the Borrower's commitment to the
project, making new investment commitments contingent upon the Borrower's
performance of earlier agreements (paras. 15 and 17) More careful atten-
tion should have been paid by the Bank at appraisal to implementation
mechanisms and definition of ctaff functions and needs (para. 23). Overall
project results highlight the need for:  (i) ensuring firm political and
financial commitment to projects, including more realistic assessment of
counterpart funding availability over the life of the project; (ii) insti-
tuting viable implementation mechanisms; and (iii) promoting continuity of
Bank task mamagers (para. 23).



PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Names     Higher Agricultural Education
Loan Number:      2208-PE
RVP Unit:         LA4HR
Country:          Peru
Sectors           Education
Subsector:        Higher Education
Backaround
1.       At the time of project development the Peruvian Government was
trying to implement a multi-faceted agricultural development strategy in
order to revitalize the agricultural sector in Peru. The main elements of
this strategy vere (i) investment in agricultural infrastructure; (ii)
introduction of price and other incentives to farmers to increase produc-
tion within a broad framework of increasing private initiatives; and (iii)
rebuilding the extension service and improving research activities.   The
availability of high quality professionals in agriculture and related
octupations was cons4.dered an important element for successful implementa-
tion of this strategy.  Hence, the anr .al demand for trained personnel in
the following areas was estimated:   Cooperative farms, private farms,
research, extension services and public administration.
2.       Although a total of 19 Peruvian Universities were producing, in
aggregate, between two to three times the number of high level personnel
needed to fill projected positions in the agricultural and fisheries areas,
the quality of graduates from 18 of these universities was below satisfac-
tory standards for high level managerial, technical, research and teaching
positions.
3.       The project was justified on the ground that it would focus on
improving Peru's National Agrarian University (NAU). This university had
been able to maintain a high quality teaching staff over the previous
decade, and as a result, was the only institution in Peru viewed as capable
of producing the quality of graduates needed for the agricultural sectors.
Proiect Obiectives And Description
4.       The project's principles objectives weres:
(a) To improve the quality of instruction and to augment the
practical orientation and management skills of undergraduate
and graduate students in agricultural related areas;



(b)  To upgrade skills of professionals who were already working
in agricultural extension, research, publi^ administration
and university teaching.
(c) To contribute directly to applied research and innovatien in
agriculture.
5.       In furtherance of the above general objoctives, specifically, the
project included four major components:
(a) Rehabilitation and expansion of the La Molina CamDus in Lima1
1. Rehabilitation and expansion to provide about
27,000m2 of classrooms and laboratories, and repair
of about 1,600m2 of classrooms and laboratories at
the central campus to be used by 4,500 undergraduate
and 500 graduate students;
2. Rehabilitation and expansion to provide about
22,000 m2 of research facilities;
3. Construction of circulation roads and sewer net-
works, landscaping of grounds, and provision of
->4ated equipment;
4. Provision of furniture and equipment for the teach-
ing and research facilities;
(b)  Construction  of RAU-affiliated  Regional DeveloDment
Institutes.
Construction and equipping of four farm facilities to serve
as NAU's Regional Development Institutes to train local
farmers in appropriate technology. Each farm was to become
financially self-sufficient through the sale of its products.
(c)  Teacher Uparadina.   Provision of scholarships for post-
graduate studies abroad of NAU faculty (including about 40 at
the M.Sc and 20 at the Ph.D level, and 60 to attend short
term courses)
(d) Technical Assistance. Provision of about two staff-years of
expert services to overhaul the graduate program in agri-
cultural economics and strengthen agricultural economics and
business courses offered to undergraduates;
I/ Many structures in the teaching and research facilities of the La
Molina campus had been rendered inoperative due to heavy damage from
the 1974 earthquake. Therefore, the project was geared to rehabilita-
tion of facilities and quality improvement of teaching (rather than
quantitative expansion) and research (See Annex 6, Section 2.08).



- 3-
Prolect DeslMn and Organization
6.       The project, as appraised, vas rather simple technically.   How-
ever, in retrospect it appears that while the Bank "packaged" the project
appropriately with substantial institutional development components, the
University and the Government were never fully committed to these curri-
culum reform components. It seems NAU wanted only assistance for physical
facilities.   Actually, the loan funds were used largely for desired
construction and renovation. The full completion of civil works was con-
strained ultimately by the economic crisis, and hence the short fall in
local financing. Bank disbursements were suspended on country grounds from
May 1987 throtigk project closing.
Proiect Imnlementation
7.       Following Board approval on September 11, 1982, the Loan Agreement
was signed on March 28, 1983 and became effective on June 6, 1983.  The
first supervision mission took place in February 1983. After five and one-
half years of implementation, only three out of the five major components
had been even partially completed, and only US$3.5 million or 202 of the
US$17.3 million loan was disbursed.
8.       The slow pace of implementation was caused mainly by:
(a) the serious scarcity of counterpart funds, particularly
during the periods between January 1983 and June 1985, and
September to December 1988;
(b) cumbersome, ineffective project administration as the project
decision-making process within the university was highly
centralized, and relatively slow, and project supervision by
the coordinator was only on a part time basis, given that he
retained his full teaching responsibilities; (see para. 19,,
(c) serious inefficiencies in the contracting of civil works,
which was interrupted by short falls in counterpart funding:
and
(d) severe scarcity of construction materials on the local
market, in the final years of execution.
9.       Other factors that adversely affected the project during implemen-
tation included political instability, rapidly rising inflation and diffi-
culties arising from linkage of counterpart funding to the sale of land.
Major political changes occurring during the life of the project impaired
the development of a strong commitment to the project on the part of the
Government.   During the initial (1982-85) and final (1987-88) stages of
project implementation, the financial support provided by the Government to
the project was much lower than expected, reflecting the relatively low
priority accorded to the project. Escalating inflation contributed heavily
to the Government's difficulties in providing national counterpart funding
for the project on a timely basis. The poor conception of the financial



plan served to compound the difficulties that were encountered.  In 1982,
immediately after project negotiatione there was an agreement between the
Government and RAU to sell RAU land in order to provide counterpart funds
for the first year of project implementation. After some failed attempts
to sell the land, the University Council ruled based on legal considera-
tions that NAU's land was an intangible good; therefore, the land was never
sold.  Ir. retrospect, the Bank should have insieted on a more reliable
source of funds, rather than assuming funds would be made available through
sale of land.   This would have improved project execution considerably,
particularly over the 1983-1985 period.
Project Results
10.     Despite its many implementation problems and shortcomings, the
project seems to have achieved a modicum of success in some of its objec-
tives. Two of the project components (9.6Z of project cost) were at large
satisfactorily met by the end of the project:  (a) the reconstructiGn and
upgrading of the main campus infrastructure (road, sewerage system ard
lighting) and (b) the upgrading of faculty through an extensive overseas
training program. Indeed, the training has been the most successful com-
ponent of the project, with a total of 41 faculty having received graduate
degrees with project support, all of which returned to the university.
(Over 661 of the appraisal target, see Annex 5).
11.     The extent to which the three other physical targets (71.5% of
project cost) were met by the end of the project is estimated to be as
follows:  (a) construction of 38 classrooms (representing 5,000 M2 out of
the appraisal target of 27,000 M2) was 702 to 902 completed:   (b) con-
struction and equipping of one of the four planned Regionsl Development
Institutes was about 902 completed; and (c) procurement and installation of
equipment at the main campus's laboratories as well as at two regional
institutes were partly completed, but the percentage of completion could
not be assessed with precision.   Detailed variances between planned and
actual results are shown in Annex 5.
12.     Where the project fell quite short in meeting its targets was in
the overhauling of the graduse:'- program (0.61 of project cost) in agri-
cultural economics and the cor.btruction and equipping of research facili-
ties (19.61 of project cost) in the main campus. In the former case, there
was no progress over the course of the project, despite interest of the
subject Department, because of lack of support from University administra-
tion. A technical assistance component, which was an integral part of the
project design, aimed mainly at assisting in the reorganization of the
graduate program in agricultural economics and the expansion of under-
graduate program in economics and business. However, the coordination of
the execution of this aspect of the project proved to be a difficult and
frustrating task for the project coordinator. This was caused mainly by:
(a) change of priority in NAU's top management (b)  the lack of strong
leadership by the project coordinator and the academic department direc-
tors; and (c)  the poor communication between all parties concerned.  In
the case of research facilJties, no action was takeu, reportedly due to the
lack of counterpart funds.



-5-
Pro10ct Sustainabilitl
13.      Institutional development objectives were not achieved for NAU as
no provisions were made to limit enrollment growth, or to implement curri-
culum reform components (see para. 6). Furthermore, given the severe eco-
nomic crisis facing Peru, it is doubtful that the Government, at least over
the short to medium term, will be able to provide the University with an
acceptable level of resources to complete even the physical facilities
program.  Therefore, it is unlikely that project sustainability could be
attained without further substantial external assistance provided that the
govertment is committed.
Bank Performance
14.      The project's formulation extended over 17 months and involved a
pre-appraisal and appraisal mission. Although this project was the first
higher education operation in the country, Bank assistance during project
development was not sought extensively. However, project preparation was
relatively fast since it was already at an advanced stage at the time that
Bank involvement commenced, mainly as a result of preparatory work funded
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
15.      The project appraisal was overly optimlstic regarding the
Government's ability to contribute counterpart funds for implementing the
project and the implementation capacity of the NRA.  The Bank also mis-
judged the Government commitment to the project.  Those factors led to a
major standstill of the project shortly after appraisal, and were key
contributing factors to the failure to achieve fully intended project
objectives.
16.     Between 1983-88 there were nine supervision missions representing
17 staff-weeks of effort, a level of input which is reasonable for this
type of project in the LAC Region. However, at the start of project imple-
mentation, more intensive supervision could have assisted in applying
appropriate remedies before larger problems developed.  For example, the
Bank might have insisted on a major modification of the project scope when
the country faced a major economic and financial crisis in 1986 and con-
sequently a crucial shortage of counterpart funds for project execution.
In addition, during implementation the turnover in Bank staff assigned to
the project was considerable (with nine staff members, including four
project managers, participating in supervision missions).    This lack of
continuity made supervision less effective as focus on main problems could
have been lost. Since the Borrower's executing capabilities were weak, as
acknowledged at project appraisal, there was in fact a clear need for the
Bank to maintain continuity of its personnel with a view toward assisting
the University to strengthen its own supervision and monitoring capability.
17.      In general, the Bank has demonstrated considerable sensitivity to
the Borrower's difficulties in implementing the project as reflected in a
large amount of correspondence.   However, experience with this project
suggests that the overall performance of the Bank could have been improved
by reassessing the status of Government commitment to the project during



- 6 -
the early years of implementation, particularly after the change in
Government of 1985, and making new investments contingent upon performance
of earlier agreements.
Borrower Performance
18.      Overall performance with regard to both project preparation and
implementation by RAU was poor.  Original architectural and engineering
designs of the project, which were prepared by local consulting firms under
supervision of NAU's staff, were generally sound. However, during imple-
mentation some construction plans and technical specifications required
time consuming corrections which were adequately done under the supervision
of the NAU's Planning Office Director.
19.      During implementation, the NAU was responsible for the overall
management and coordination of the project. The Project Agreement called
for the Rector of the University to serve as official project director, to
be assisted by a full-time project coordinator responsible for tbi_ day-to-
day execution of the project. Thiq planned administrative arrangement did
not work.  Over the course of project implementation the post of Project
Director was largely an honorary one, characterized by cumbersome clearance
procedures, and long waiting periods for the coordinator to obtain deci-
sions, etc. The bulk of the project management workload fell upon a part-
time project coordinator assisted by a small team.   In addition to the
usual academic administratiye and teaching functions of a full time univer-
sity professor, the project coordinator had responsibility for the coor-
dination and implementation of all proje it activities with appropriate
authorities of the NAU and the MEF.
20.      Project administrative inefficiency was due mainly to:
(a) a thin core of staff without previous project experience who
had direct responsibility for carrying out the project (one
coordinator, one administrative assistant and one secretary)
throughout most of the implementation period, though NAU did
add one accountant, one assistant accountant and one secre-
tary in 1987 to facilitate financial processing;
(b) lack of delegation of authority for management by the Rector
to the coordinator or assignment of special authority status
for the project coordinator role within the University; and
(c) ineffective financial control during implementation with
project records merged within NAU overall accounting system,
creating substantial problems of bookkeeping, and audit
preparation, resulting in long delays in submission of
required audit reports, and several irregularities noted in
them.
21.      Notwithstanding the lack of fin&ncial commitment, the Borrower's
technical commitment to most project compo.ients was high during the initial
years, and its receptivity to the views and suggestions of the Bank was



- 7 -
also positive. However, after Bank suspension of disbursements, there was
extremely limited political support for this project within both the NEF
and the NAU.  The project was widely viewed as a relatively low priority
investment inherited from the previous Administration. This slowed further
the flow of resources to the project, and hence execution. Moreover, the
Government did not totally fulfill its commitment to finance overseas
training, once such disbursements from the Bank ended December 31, 1987.
The Project Coordinator had to expend much time in administrative proce-
dures in order to secure alternative funding for professc-s abroad.
Finally, the Borrower did not fully comply with key loan covenants such as
holding undergraduate enrollment growth to 22 per annum (due to the poli-
tical decision in 1985 of the new Government to double enrollments) which
adversely affected classroom accommodation.
Proiect Relationship
22.      In retrospect, the Bank's supervision effort was adequate in
quantitative terms which is reflected in the reasonable manpower coeffi-
cients but has not always been effective. It appears that in the early,
critical stages of project execution, supervision missions did not address
sufficiently important issues such as the lack of appropriate project
performance monitoring by NAU and the failure to adjust project design, as
circumstances dictated, e.g., lack of counterpart funding.   Furthermore,
because of both the inexperience of the NAU's staff in executing
externally-financed projects, and the seriovu political and financial
constraints and pressures facing the Borrower, the supervision missions
frequently found themselves dealing with emergency problems which could not
easily be resolved.   Important issues regarding staffing of the project
administration unit and "mechanisms adopted for financial planning as well
as availability of counterpart funds were not discussed adequately with the
University but rather accepted by the Bank as "faits accomplis." Notably,
the initial agreement that the local funding requirement would be met
through the sale of land by NAU de facto substituted for obtaining the
Government's own firm financial commitment to this project (see para. 9).
23.      Overall project performance was  far below acceptable Bank
standards.   Many problems could not have been foreseen at appraisal,
particularly the extremely difficult economic and political environment in
which the project was executed particularly from 1986.   Nevertheless,
actual project results would have been closer to original objectives if
more careful attention had been paid to the need to establish a strong
implementation mechanism - especially with regard to clarifying scheduling
and procedures for transfer of local funds and assignment of a full-time
project coordinator (see para. 8). The experience points to the need in.
future investments for the Bank and the Peruvian authorities to:   (i)
ensure adequacy of local financing with, therefore, more stringent finan-
cial analysis of new operations and consideration given to tranched release
of loan proceeds based on adequate annual budgetary provisions; (ii)
establish implementation mechanisms which are workable with individual
functions and responsibilities and delegation of authority clearly defined.
At the seame time, the project highlights the heavy toll which high turnover
in Bank staff exacts on supervision effectiveness.   Continuity of task



manager should be pursued to the extent possible, especially in social
sector projects in which Government implementation capacity is extremely
weak, and hence strong Bank leadership is critical to project outcome.
Importantly, the failure of the project to achieve its institutional
development objectives--the very heart of the project from the Bank's
perspective--underscores the inherent dangers of designing projects with
such components, however, desirable, without a firm commitment from the
Government to these objectives.   The Bank, therefore, must be extremely
cautious in the future in pushing institutional development components as
an implicit condition for Bank financing, when the Government clearly is
only interested in civil works, as in the end, as this project striking
illustrate, the Government often tends to accomplish only what it truly
wants.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW nON THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A draft PCR (Parts I and III) was sent to the the borrower with
the request to prepare Part II, but none was received. However, a copy of
the draft PCR was discussed with the project implementation unit staff and
the Directorate of Public Credit within the Ministry of Economics and
Finance (MEF) during a field mission from March 13 to 21, 1989.  Comments
received were taken into account in finalizing the PCR.



- 11 -
PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
Annex 1
Related Bank Loans
------------------------------------------------------------------__------
Loan/Credit                         Year of
Title             Purpose        Approval  Status        Comments
First Education   To support the    11/13173  Completed    PPAR issued
Project           educational                               on 12/30/83
reform of 1972
Primary Education To improve primary 07/10/84  Under
Project          education in                  implement-
selected rural               ation
and marginal urban
areas



- 12 -
Annex 2
Proiect Timetable
Date        Date        Date
item               Planned      Revised     Actual
- Identification              07120181    01105182al  03/20182a1
(Project Brief)
- Preparation                   n.a.         n.a.      12181
- Appraisal Mission           03182          n.a.      03/82
- Negotiations                09/82          n.a.      09/82
- Board Approval              09/11182       n.a.     09/11182
- Signature                    n.a.          n.a.      03/28183
- Effectiveness                n.a.          n.a.     06/08/83
- Completion                  06130188b1     n.a.     n.a.
- Closing                     12/31/88c/     n.a.      12/31/88
Comments
a/ Date refers to issue of final version of Project Brief.
b/ At the time, implementation of the project has undergone substantial
delays, owing mainly to counterpart funding constaints and inadequvste
project management.
cl At the 1988 Spring PIR, regional management agreed not to further
extend the closing date.



- 13 -
Annex 3
A. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated _nd Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FY83  FY84   FY85  FX86  FY87  FY88  FY89
Appraisal Estimate          0.50   3.00   7.50   12.10  15.90  17.00  17.30
Actual                      0.30   0.40   0.90   2.20   2.90   3.52   3.52
Actual as X of Estimate      60     13    12       19    18    20    20
Date of Final Disbursement - December 31, 1988
B. Proiect Implementation
-------------------------------------------------------__------
Appraisal       Actual (or
Inldicators                       Estimate       PCR Estimate)
Available Funds                       al/             4b/
Project Management                    1               2
Development Impact                    1               2
Overall Status                        1               4¢/
Coments
a/  Since there were fiscal difficulties in Peru at the time of
preparation it was agreed between the Government and the
University (NAU) that a salet of land by the NAU, would provide
counterpart funds for the fitst year of project implementation.
b/  After the suspension of disbursements in May 1987, the Special
Account rapidly was depleted and very limited public budgetary
resources have been made available to the University to support
the project, principally to sustain support for overseas training
of NAU faculty already enrolled in long term programs at the time
of suspension.
ct At the Closing Date (12/31/88) the overall performance of the
project remained extremely poor, i.e., just US$3.5 million or 20X
of the US$17.3 million loan had been disbursed over the five and
a half year period since the loan became effective.



- 14 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Proiot Cost and PinancLin
A. Project Costs (USM)
Appraleal!t          Actuals/                  Difference
ProlecmtCoomonent                      t         AmAt  X of Totel  As X of Anoraisal
1. Rehabilttation and
Expansion of Central
(a)  Acadenic Area       19.08         55        4.46      60                23
(classroom & laboratories)
(b)  Research Area        6.82         20                   0                 0
2. Refonal Development         5.08          14       1.09      15                21
Institutes
3. Teacher Upgradfng           3.15          9       1.08*     15                34
4. Reorg.Agr.Econ.Prog.        0.32           1       0.02       0                 6
5. Project Coordination        03             I       Le        1                 26
Total                     34.76        100        7.44     100                21
af Including contfngencies
bI Data as of 12/31/88
Comments:
*Some fetlowships were complementary to previous programs.



- 15 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
B.  Pro1ect Finanel"
Amwunt of the
Loan Allocated     Aaiunt Actually    Actual
(Expressed in      Disbursed          Disbursements/
SS39PrY                    ogttar  WyMvaent  (US EouiXalet    Amcunt Attocated
(l) Civil works (exctudino           6,865,000             803,938.88           11.7
aounts withheld as
performance guarantee)
and professlonat fees
C2) Equipment and furniture:        5200,000            1,408,369.20           27.1
(a) Direetly
nported
(b) locally
procured
(3) Teachers studies abroad          2,700,000             998,994.58           37.0
(4) Experts# services for:
Ca) Part 0.1 of                   156.000              24,144.68           15.5
the Project
(b) Part 0.2 of                   104.000                   0                -
the Project
(5) Project Coordination:
(a) Travel abroad                  50,000               5,975.50           12.0
and per diem
(b) Salaries                       50.000              16,015.26           32.0
(6) Front-end fee                      255.665             255,665.00
(7)  Initial deposit                   400.000
in Specfal Account
(8) Uatllocated                      1,49° 335           1,499,335.00
Total Amzunt DSsbwsed                               3,513,103.10
Cancelled                                           13,786,896.90
TOTAL                          17,300,000           17,300,000.00



- 16 -
Annex 5
Prolect Result.
Dlroct Benefits
Apprafsat          Estimated at         Appralsal
Irditators             EstimLti C               mos Ja Date a
1. Rehabilitation/
Expansion         5000 student           n.a.                n.a.
Central Capus    Places
a) Cltesroems
and labora-
tories        27,000 N2           5,220 N2/              20
b)Research Centers 22,000 N2                0                  0
2. Regifna  Develop-
ment Institutes   4 units               I unit               25
3. Teacher Upgrading
a. Doctor Degrees   20 professors  20 professors c/           100
b. Nester Degrees   40                     li4d                25
c. Upgrading         60                    38                  63
via short
cowles
4. Expert Services    24 staff/months  2.5 staff/months            10
Comments
a/ Dats as of 12/31/88
b/ Laboratories were not built and classroos are partially capleted but the
proportion cunot be assessed.
c/ additional 8 still are studying abroad suWorted by private funds.
d/ additional 2 stitl are studying abroad supported by private funds.



- 17 -
NNE X 6
Status o£ Loan Covenants
---------------------------------------------------__--------_----------_--
Covenants
Project Agreement          status                 Comment
--------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
Section 2.02
Project Coordinator to be     M
agreed by Bank
Section 2.03
Consultants and Expert to
be agreed by Bank           N
Section 2.06. (b)(iv)
Preparation of plan for       N      Project provided specifically
evaluation of project               neither financing nor technical
benefits                           assistance both badly need to
fulfill this condition
Section 2.08
Limit enrollment growth       N      This covenant was unrealistic to be
fulfilled. Actual undergraduate
enrollments doubled in 1985 when new
government assumed power. Because
of political reasons, it is unlikely
that this will change substantially.
Section 2.09
Fellowship candidates
selection                     U
Section 2.10
Reports of experts to be
furnished to Bank           n
Sectlon 4.02(a)
Annual auditing of NAU        P      There is compliance with this
condition only partially because the
project's Special Account has never
been audited and project audits for
1987 and 1988 are still outstanding.
Covenant Status
N-Met
N - Not met
P - pending



Anulex Z
A. tfi.iJw.uts (Staff Weeks)
Fr                       83              85                              Total
Preappraleal         21.1                                                     21.1
Appraisal            16.4               -       -                       -     16.4
Negotiation           0.1     8.3                       -                      8.4
Supervision             -    2.9      5.3     7.7   16.5   13.7       6.9    53.0
Other                 0.3       -                                              0.3
Total               37.8   11.2    5.3    7.7    16.5    13.7    6.9    99.1
B. issigns
Stage of      month/   No. of    Staff  Specializations  Performance  Types of
Prolect Cyl>e  Year      Persons  Davs   Retresented/'        Ratinab/   Problems
Identification 07/81       3        21         a,b              n.a.        n.a.
Preappraisal    12/81      4         92       a,boc             n.a.        n.a.
Appraisal       03/82      3         39       a b,c             n.a.        n.a.
Supervision 1  02/838j    2          12        bc                1           F
Supervfsion 2   1O/830     3         12       a.b.c              2           F
Supervision 3   10/84d     2         22        a,b               2           F
Supervision 4   09/85      1          8         a                4            F
Supervision S   02W86      2         12        a,b               4           F
Supervision 6   11/86      4         28        a,c               2           F
Supervision 7   05/87'd    2         11        a c               2           F
Supervision 8   03/88      2         12        b,c               4           FN
Supervision 9   11/88      1         3          b                4           Fn
Total SPE
Completion    03/89dj    1          5          c               n.a.        n.a.
a aseducator; baeconomist; c-architect; d-loan officer; eafinancial
mnapgmment specialist; f-division chief.
l' 1problemo-free or minor problems; 2-moderate problems; and 3=major
problems.
0/ F-financial; N-managerial; Tutechmical; P-political; and Oother
d Combfned with other duties.
e/ Estimated mxrber of staff-days attributable to this project (including
travel time).
n.a. * not available.



- 19 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                       TTACHMENT I
Translation of Incoming Telex
Lima, April 17, 1990
To:   Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Subject:   Project Completion Report
"Higher Agricultural Education" - UNA
IBRD Loan 2208
In response to your letter of February 28, 1990, requesting comments on the
Project completion Report for the "Higher Agricultural Education" Project
(IBRD Loan 2208), we would advise you as follows:
*     On the closing date of December 31, 1988, the project was 20 percent
completed, being roughly three years behind schedule; this resulted
in unanticipated financing costs for the Government in respect of
commitment fees.
*     The currency pooling system applied by the World Bank has resulted in
approximately a 36 percent increase in the amount outstanding, equi-
valent to US$1.25 million.
*     Suspension of loan disbursements as of May 1987 was another of the
factors that prevented the project from moving forward.
*     Given the existing restrictions on use of the revolving fund for
other project components, it would be useful for the Bank to look
into alternative procedures for streamlining disbursements under
future loans, having regard to liquidity and resource availability
problems in the borrowing country.
*     In light of the situation as described, the Bank should in future
examine alternative mechanisms with the Borrower designed to ensure
the availability of financing up to completion of the project, so
that the pre-established objectives and benefits can be achieved by
both the Borrower and the Bank.
Regards,
Dr. Rosa Rodriguez Farias
Director General of Public Credit
Mini.stry of Economy and Finance
Telex 171
25403PE MINDEF



