Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3940b-PE
PERU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
October 4, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1982)
Currency Unit      =  Sol Peruano (S/)
US$1               =  S/550
S/1               =  US$0.001818
S/1,000,000       =  US$1,818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    = 10,000 mZ = 2.47 acres
100 hectares      = 1 square kilometer (km2)=0.39 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)   = 2.2 pound.s
1,060 kilograms   = 1 metric ton = 0.98 long ton
I liter (1)       = 0.26 gallons
ABREVIATIONS
NAU    = National Agrarian University
INIPA = National Institute for Agricultural Extension
and Research
ESEP   = Higher School for Professional Education
CEB    = Basic Education Center
GOVERNMENT OF PERUJ
Fiscal Year
January 1 t:o December 31
Academiic Year
April to raid-December



PERU                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
I.   DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES OF HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION ...    I
II.  THE HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION SYSTEM ............      .    3
Overview ....     .........................................    3
Enrollments ......... . ......    ..........................   3
Teachers ......     .......................................    5
Facilities and Equipment ...    ..........................  5
Research .............................................     5
Main Problems of Higher Agricultural Education .......     5
Strategy for the Development of Higher Agricultural
Education  ..........................................    8
The National Agrarian University (NAU) ............. ...    9
Bank Participation in Peru's Education Investment ....  12
III. THE PROJECT        ................................................   13
Objectives ...................................................  13
Project Components .     ...................................   14
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT  20
Cost Estimates .............................  .. ..........  20
Project Financing ... ...... .  ......... . .......... . .....   23
Project Implementation .........    ......................  25
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................... . ................. .  29
Benefits ............................................   29
Risks ......................................              29
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................ ....  30
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Location of Public and Private Universities
3. Organizational Chart of NAU
4. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Peru in March-April 1982. The mission consisted of Messrs. S. Apergis
(senior economist, mission leader), A. Magnen (agricultural educator,
UNESCO) and I. Matallana (architect, consultant). A contribution was also
made by Mr. C. Garces (higher agricultural education specialist,
consultant) who joined an earlier preappraisal mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of]
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






I. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES OF HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
1.01      Agricultural production stagnated and dependence on food imports
increased in Peru in the past decade. 1/ In order to reverse this
situation and neutralize its negative effects (increasing nutritional
deficiencies, restricted supplies of raw materials to local industries,
deteriorating balance of payments), the government is trying to implement a
multi-faceted agricultural development strategy, the main elements of which
are (i) investment in agricultural infrastructure such as irrigation works
and access roads; (ii) price and other incentives to farmers to increase
production within a broad framework of increasing private initiative and
decreasing government intervention; (iii) rebuilding the badly neglected
extension service and expanding and improving research activities by means
of the new National Institute for Agricultural Research and Promotion
(LNIPA).
1.02      The availability of high quality professionals in agriculture-
related occupations is an important element for successful implementation
of this strategy. The need for this type of personnel is manifest in the
following areas.
(a)  Cooperative Farms: The Agrarian Reform is practically complete.
However, the staff of the resulting 2,000 collective farms of one
type or another, e.g., production cooperatives, service coopera-
tives,communal lands,lack management capacity and technical
expertise in agricultural practices and marketing to the detri-
ment of production and income.
(b)  Private Farms: A number of private farms remain after the imple-
mentation of the Agrarian Reform, whose size is large enough to
fully occupy and adequately remunerate a professional-farmer.
Given the extent of the Agrarian Reform and the large size of
rural to urban migration in the past decade, an accurate measure-
ment will have to await the Agricultural Census scheduled for
next year. Preliminary indications are that their number is in
excess of 5,000. The political climate for operation and growth
of these farms is hospitable at the moment, in large part because
of the problems faced by cooperative farms and the ensuing short
supply of agricultural products.
(c)  Research: The differences in climate, topography, and hydro-
graphic conditions between Peru and the countries that tradi-
tionally engage in basic research and produce improved agricul-
tural inputs call for a strenuous effort for experimenting and
adapting these inputs to local conditions. Responsibility for
this falls on INIPA, research groups specialized by product, and
those Universities offering relatively strong agricultural
programs.
1/   PERU:  Major Development Policy Issues and Recommendations, (2 vols.),
The World Bank, April 1981.



- 2 -
(d)  Agricultural Extension. I'he vital mechanism for transmitting
research results to individual farmers and rural communities was
practically destroyed during the 1970s. Current efforts to
rebuild it are also taking into account the potential contribu-
tion of extension agents in (i) providing feedback to researchers
about "real world" problems in adopting innovations, (ii) secur-
ing and distributing agricultural credit and (iii) improving
marketing arrangements. The adopted model is that of Training
and Visit, which emphasizes feedback reactions to researchers
and, therefore, calls for significant numbers of high level
supervisors and subject-matter specialists.
(e)  Public Administration: Demand in this area is for replacing
retiring personnel with new entrants of higher qualifications,
thus raising the average level of administrators in terms of
technical expertise and management capacity, and for post-
graduate studies of existing personnel, especially in agri-
cultural economics and management courses.
(f)   Agriculture-Related Activities: These include the National Agri-
cultural Bank and other banks offering agricultural credit; com-
mercial firms selling agricultural inputs; and, to a lesser
extent, firms and organizatione involved in marketing of agri-
cultural products. Contaets with knowledgeable people indicate
that increased technical and economic sophistication of profes-
sionals occupied in these activities is an important element of
success for the renewed efforts to revitalize agriculture.
(g)  University Teaching: The majority of teachers in agricultural
programs offered by universities need upgrading in basic knowl-
edge and research ability. To achieve rapid results, emphasis
should be placed on upgrading existing teachers, mainly by means
of post-graduate studies at the M.Sc. level.
1.03      Approximate average annual demand of high quality professionals
in the above areas over the next decade is estimated as follows:
Table 1.1
Re-     Total       Average
Net          place-  Incr.       Annual
Total   Total    Increase    ment    Demand        Demand
Source of Demand   1990 a/ 1980 b/  1980-1990             1980-1990  1980-1990
Cooperative Farms  2,500   1,100
Private Farms       3,500   2,500
Research              500      300
Extension           1,000      200
Public Adminstr.   1,500   1,500
Agr.Related.Bus.   1,000       600
Univ.Teaching       1,000      800
Total   11,000   7,000       4,000       1,000    5,000       500
a/ Mission estimates
b/ Adjusted figures from College of Engineers records.



- 3 -
The table is based on the expectation that the rise in quality of profes-
sionals employed in agriculture-related jobs in 1990 (to affect about 40%
of the projected stock at the time) will be achieved through increased sup-
ply of high-level people, and at the same time policy measures facilitating
employment for these people (e.g. greater profit incentives for successful
farmers, strict selection of public sector employees). About 20% of pro-
jected annual demand, i.e., about 100 persons, should be graduates of
post-graduate programs for filling more demanding positions, especially in
the areas of research, extension, public administration and university
teaching.
II. THE HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
Overview
2.01      The Peruvian university system includes 37 universities (25
public and 12 private) 14 of which are located in Lima (Annex 2).
Agricultural programs _/ are offered at present by 16 universities and
fisheries programs by 7 universities (all public). Agricultural (including
fisheries) programs and their enrollments are evenly distributed all over
the country and Lima is in fact underrepresented in relation to its
population. Graduate agricultural studies are offered only by the National
Agrarian University (NAU), and they are limited to about 1% of all
students.
Enrollments
2.02      During the 1970s enrollments in agricultural and fisheries
programs increased, respectively, at 15% and 25% per annum, i.e., much
faster than those of total university enrollments that increased from
109,000 in 1970 to 223,000 in 1979, or at a rate of 8.6%. Enrollments in
agricultural programs grew much more slowly, however, at NAU and the San
Marcos University (Table 2.1). In 1979, agricultural and fisheries studies
made up about 9% of total university enrollments.
2.03      The average percentage of students graduating from agricultural
studies five years after entry is 35%. Variation around this average,
however, is high ranging from 59% for the San Marcos Univesity and 48% for
NAU, to 23% for the Technical University of Cajamarca and 13% for the
University of Ica. The total number of graduates increased from about 800
in 1978 to about 1,200 in 1981, exclusively as the result of past growth in
enrollments.
2/   In this report, agricultural programs include: agronomy, agricultural
engineering, forestry, food industries, animal husbandry, veterinary
medicine and related post-graduate programs. The report does not
include the new agronomy programs of the Universities of San Martin
(Tarapoto), Pucallpa, and San Agustin (Arequipa), established in 1980
and 1981.



- 4 -
Table 2.1
Enrollments in Universitv Agricultural and Fiaheries Proerams
Average                    Average
agric.                    enrollments
programs    Enrollment    growth in
Date          Enrollments      enrollment        in          fisheries
agricultural      in agric          growth      Fisheries      programs;         Sumbers of
Name of the University               Head-         programs          programs        1970-79      peograms        1970-79        agricultural
(Universidad Nacional...)          uarters        established   1970         1979    X o.a.    1970        1979  Z o.a.            Prograom
Agraria                            Lima              1902      1,441-/'   2,682-/i       7.2       56       383        24                6
Mayor de San Marcos                Lima              1946         256        423        5.7                                              1
San Antonio Abad                   Cuzco             1956        400       1,228       13.3                                             2
San Luis Gonzaga                  Icea               1961        321       1,304       16.9        58       4811       27               3
Del Centro del Peru                Huancaye          1960        410       1,409       14.7                                             4
San Cristobal de Huamanga         Ayacucho           1960        137         743       21                                               1
De la Amazonia Peruana             Iquitoe           1963        188         803       17.5                                             3
Teenica del Altiplano             Puna               1962        203       1,392       24                                               2
Thcnica de Piura                   Piura             1962        201       1,177       22           -       718                         3
Tsacnica do Caj amara              Cajemarca         1963        109       1,320       32                                               2
Pedro Ruiz Callo                  Lambayeqys         1960        377       2,108       21                                               4
Hermilio Valdisan                 Huanuco            1964         96         503       20                                               1
Agraria de la SElva               Tingo Maria        1964        144         575       16.6                                             3
Daniel Alcideas Carrion           Cerro de Paaco   1974            -         614                                                        I
De Tacna                          TAcna              1979          -          96                    -       228                         2
De Ancash                         Huarez             1979          -         104                                                        I
Federico Villareal                Lima                                                            138       331        10.2
Teenica de Callao                 Lima                                                             77       167       32
J.F.S. Carrion                    Huacho                                                          115       288        10.7
TOTAL                                                  4,278      16,481       15.5       444    3,403         25
2 Agraria                                               33.7        .6.3                 12.6      11.1
ALI UNTV. EXCEPT AGRARTA                               2,837      13,799       18         388    3,020         26
1/ Including post-graduate students (59 in 1970, 217 in 1978, 181 in 1979)
Source of data:   Comision Nacional Interuniversitaria (CONAl)



-5-
Teachers
2.04      The teaching staff shows considerable quantitative and
qualitative variations from one program to the other. The student-teacher
ratio varied from 12 at NAU to 40 31 at other universities with 70% of the
programs showing a ratio above 20. Given the considerable needs for
practical instruction in agriculture, these figures prove a shortage of
teaching staff in all programs except NAU and the Universidad Agraria de la
Selva. The dearth of teaching staff is compounded by the insufficient
qualifications of teachers: the percentage of those with an advanced degree
is under 20% in all programs except NAU (40%) and the Technical University
of Piura (45%).
Facilities and Equipment
2.05      Agricultural and fisheries university programs also vary widely
in availability of facilities and equipment necessary for teaching and
research. Several agricultural programs have only one tractor, which is
totally inadequate for the practical training of students. Some laboratory
equipment has been provided by external cooperation projects, including the
large program of equipment purchases from Hungary in 1972 whose
implementation, however, is still not completed.
Research
2.06      In 1978 universities provided 42% of the financial resources and
67% of the human resources used in agricultural research, and an even
higher proportion of the research staff holding an advanced degree.  Many
of the achievements of agricultural research and development in Peru are
products of universities' efforts.  The contribution of universities to
agricultural research is very unevenly distributed, however. NAU and the
veterinary medicine program of the San Marcos University account for most
of these achievements.  Furthermore, in the 1980 budget, NAU and San Marcos
provided 60% of the total amount devoted to agricultural research while
eight universities had an appropriation of less than US$80,000 each for
this purpose. In most agricultural programs research consists almost
entirely of undergraduate theses, while staff members devote almost all
their time to teaching because of high student/teacher ratios, limited
number of teachers with advanced degrees and lack of research funds.
External funding for research purposes naturally goes to the few
universities which have good capability in this field.
Main Problems of Higher Agricultural Education
2.07      Poor quality of academic programs.  Apart from a handful of
universities, prominent among which is NAU, the quality of agricultural
programs is unsatisfactory. Table 2.2 summarizes the opinions of Peruvian
professors and other professionals regarding program quality, which were
corroborated during visits by Bank staff to several universities. The
3/   Taking into account only the teaching staff attached to agricultural
or fisheries departments.



- 6 -
major factor producing poor program quality, and therefore poor quality of
graduates, has been rapid enrollment growth (para. 2.02) not matched by the
required increases in human, material and financial resources.
2.08      The number of available teachers is inadequate, and their dearth
is compounded by insufficient qualifications (para. 2.04). Insufficient
budgetary allocations have been responsible for this situation, further
aggravated by rapid recruitment of administrative and auxiliary personnel
at the expense of teaching positions. The task of available teachers is
rendered more difficult also by university facilities and equipment which
are generally inadequate to meet the needs of present enrollments, since
few universities have been able to finance substantial investments during
the 1970s (para. 2.05).
Table 2.2
Opinions of Peruvian Professionals and Bank Staff on Program Quality
by University
Program Quality__               __
Program       Good        Fair               Mediocre          Poor
Agronomy      NAU Lima   UPRG Lambayeque   USCH Ayacucho  All Others
UT Piura           UMV Huanuco
UT Cajamarca       UAS Tingo Maria
UAP Iquitos
Agricultural
Engineering  NAU Lima                                       lJPRG Lambayeque
1J Ancash
(starting)
Food                      NAU Lima                           All Others
Industries
Animal       NAU Lima    UPRG Lambayeque   UT Piura           All Others
Husbandry
UAP Iquitos
Forestry     NAU Lima    UAP Iquitos         UC Huancayo    UAS Tingo Maria
Veterinary   N.U. San
Medicine   Marcos                                          USLG Ica
Lima                                            UPRG Lambayeque
Fisheries    NAU Lima    UT Callao                           All Others
U.F. Villareal
Lima



- 7-
2.09      Agricultural curricula, although often inspired by NAU's
programs, vary widely in the required courses and in the elective areas.
In general, the shortage of properly trained and experienced staff and
suitable facilities and equipment results in agricultural courses with a
highly theoretical content and little exposure of students to practical
problems. In addition agricultural programs do not offer quality courses
in the social sciences, especially economics, resulting in their failure to
produce well grounded graduates with management capacity.
2.10      Another factor of poor quality is the unsatisfactory academic
level of new entrants, in spite of restricted admission to universities--
22% of applicants were admitted in 1978--and of coaching of applicants in
private preparatory courses.
2.11      Excessive growth of enrollments and graduates.  The social demand
for higher education 4/ exerts a strong pressure on university author-
ities, sometimes through forceful actions; and universities have not always
made proper use of their autonomy to determine the maximum number of admis-
sions according to available resources. During the 1970s the government
tried to control the expansion of universities, but those efforts were
frustrated and universities succeeded in preserving their autonomy. The
resulting rapid increase in enrollments and graduates has had other nega-
tive effects in addition to keeping low and/or lowering the quality of
graduates. Unemployment of graduates has been pushed upwards, at least in
the short run.  The longer run outcome is an unnecessary rise of education
norms in middle agriculture-related occupations and/or a loss of trained
professionals to other occupations, resulting in waste of resources for
university education. As mentioned in para 2.02, only NAU and the San
Marcos University veterinary medicine program have been able to hold
enrollment growth down to manageable levels.
2.12      Weak Research Activities.  With the exceptions of NAU and San
Marcos, Peruvian universities do not function as sources of new knowledge
in the agricultural fields. The 1980 budget of the Peruvian university
system devoted only 5.6% of their recurrent budget to research. The two
major reasons are excessive enrollments and financial constraints. Because
of these, university staff generally have a high teaching workload and can
devote little time to research. Furthermore, only NAU and San Marcos
received in the past massive assistance from abroad, which created new
attitudes towards basic and applied research, and receive at present
significant external funding for their research activities. As a result,
the students of all but these two universities are deprived of the creative
environment that research activities generate, courses and textbooks are
usually copied from other institutions, much of the academic program is
irrelevant to Peruvian problems, and the contribution of the great majority
of agricultural programs to the solution of the problems of Peruvian
agriculture is minimal.
4/   The number of applicants increased by 17.4% during 1970-1975 and by
9.7% during 1975-1980.



- 8 -
2.13      Insufficient Financing. FirLancial resources available to public
universities offering agricultural programs are adequate in the case of
only two, San Marcos and NAU, which could spend above US$1,600 per student
in 1980 to cover recurrent costs; the average for all others was US$390.
Allocations for capital investment were equally limited.  Only three
universities (NAU, Agraria de la Selva, and Ancash) were allocated US$50 or
more per student, while the average for all universities was about
US$15i 5/. These limitations are especially severe in the case of agri-
cultural programs,because their capital and recurrent cost requirements are
higher than average. Yet, in the case of the great majority of universi-
ties (other than NAU) in which the agricultural program is only one among
many, limited overall budgets apparently result in resource allocations
among academic departments roughly proportional to number of students.
Resources available per student for covering recurrent costs in agricul-
tural programs were just 30 percent above the already clearly inadequate
average availability for all students in multi-discipline universities.
(The veterinary medicine program at San Marcos is a striking exception to
this rule, probably because of pressures on the part of outside contrib-
utors, national and international, whose support is critical for maintain-
ing acquired quality levels).
Strategy for the Development of Higher Agricultural Education
2.14      Availability of high quality professionals is essential for
revitalizing the agricultural sector in Peru (paras. 1.02-1.03). At
present, 19 universities are turning out approximately 1,200 graduates per
year from their agricultural and fisheries programs, or between two and
three times the number of high level personnel needed to fill key positions
(Table 1.1). However, with the exception of few cases in certain areas or
specific products (Table 2.2), the quality of graduates from 18 of these
universities is well below satisfactory standards for high level manager-
ial,technical, research and teaching positions. This has been the combined
result of exploding enrollments and limited availability of public funds
for universities.
2.15      The one exception to this disappointing picture Df low quality
and excessive numbers is NAU (and the San Marcos program for veterinary
medicine), which has been able to keep enrollment and graduate growth at
low rates, and obtain much higher public funding per student than the
average agricultural program.  Consequently, it has maintained the quality
of teaching at acceptable levels, and has assigned enough professors to
research activities to produce both relevant academic programs and improved
agricultural inputs and products. Furthermore, it has the only agricul-
tural program offering urgently needed graduate studies. Therefore, NAU
appears to be the only feasible alternative at present for providing the
required high level staff.
5/   Figures for capital investment aLlocations must be used with care due
to the bunching of capital investrient over time. But longer time
series of capital expenditures ancL direct observarion of physical
facilities still confirm the general picture of inadequate capital
budgets.



- 9 -
2.16      Over the longer run, the present or future governments should
seriously consider taking the politically painful decis.-,on of supporting
two or three regional universities, at the expense of tne rest, in order to
raise their teaching/research capabilities in agriculture-related areas.
The obvious benefits from creating a strong, even if limited, regional
network of agricultural faculties would be relevance in teaching and
research obtained from close contact with problems (ecological, climatic,
agronomical, social, economic) of the surrounding communities; and the
contribution that a prestigious university could make to advancing regional
development. Even if such a decision were taken immediately, however, the
current need to rely on NAU to provide high level staff for teaching and
research would remain, given the long period it takes to develop good
quality university programs.
2.17      NAU, although superior to other universities offering similar
programs, suffers from several deficiencies in its academic facilities and
study programs which have lowered somewhat the quality of its teaching and
research in recent years, and whose perpetuation would imperil the con-
tinued supply of good quality professionals. The following section
explores these problems.
The National Agrarian University (NAU)
2.18      NAU, similarly to other universities, is governed by the Peruvian
University Law No. 17347, which determines its administrative structure
(Annex 3). This Law also specifies that the univesity's objectives are
training of professionals, research, educational extension (proyeccion
social), and production of goods and services.
2.19      The academic program.  NAU's fields of study, enrollments and
graduates are shown in Table 2.3. The quality of courses is generally
satisfactory and much better than in other universities' agricultural
programs. Nevertheless, the practical application of knowledge in
professional activities is deficient (with few exceptions such as
horticulture) because NAU, in line with most higher agricultural education
institutions, has adopted the criterion of preparing professionals as
scientists and researchers.
2.20      Another aspect where courses are unsatisfactory is insufficient
orientation towards rural development. Technical courses are excessively
centered on technology designed for mechanized or commercial agriculture,
and tend to neglect analyses of the technological environment of poor
farmers. Furthermore, course content in the social sciences, particularly
economics, does not provide agricultural students with sufficient
understanding of the socio-economic factors determining the development of
agriculture nor with the ability to manage people and other resources. And
courses in communication and extension offered at present are mostly
theoretical and do not lead to a better understanding between professionals
and small farmers.



- 10 -
Table 2.3
National Agrarian University - Applicants, New Entrants, Total Enrollment
by Program, and Graduates
1970-1980
Enrollments
growth rates
Academic                                                p.a.
Programs         1970    1975    1980   1981   1970-75 1975-81
Aplicants                     1,900   2,190   2,883
New Entrants                    414      479      613
Enrollment   Total            2,088   3,035   3,585   3,611    7.8         2.9
Agronomy          516      484      677     704   -1.0       6.4
Sciences           48      181     220      195   30.4      1.2
Forestry           51      195      330     317   30.8       8.4
Economics          88      373     420      421   33.5      2.0
Ag.Engineering   331       413      492     466    4.5       2.0
Anml.Husbandry   338       462      512     545    6.5      2.8
Fisheries          56      367      350     315   45.6    -2.6
Food Industries  146       371      385     422   20.5      2.2
Sociology          55        4        -       -
General Studies  400         -        -       -
Post Graduate      59      185      196     226   25.7      3.4
BS Graduates                    ...      'L96     422
MS Graduates                    ...      ...       47
Source: National Agrarian University                . = meaningless
...= no data. available
- - nil
2.21      NAU is aware of these weaknesses and their rectification is among
the objectives of the revision of curricula started in July 1981. Part of
the strategy toward this objective is to utilize four former haciendas
expropriated in the process of the agratrian reform and donated to NAU by
the state, and one farm purchased by NAU, to establish Regional Development
Institutes in three natural regions of Peru: the Coast (Canete) the Sierra
(Jauja) and the Selva, or eastern lowlands (Satipo, San Ramon and
Tarapoto). In the future, all undergraLduate students in agronomy, animal
husbandry, forestry, agricultural engineering and fisheries would spend
before graduation one semester in these Institutes in order to gain expe-
rience in field practices, rural development and agricultural extension,
provided that financing of the necessary investments in buildings and
equipment in each of these Institutes becomes available. The Institutes
lack completely at present the necessary structures for the projected
functions of teaching of last-year undergraduate students, initial multi-
plication of improved inputs, and extension services to the surrounding
professional and farming communities. Their potential to finance their own
operations is very good, provided that fixed capital can be provided
through outside financing. Currently, the Institutes operate only as farms
producing at low levels, and their work, force is housed in the dilapidated
hacienda buildings.



- 11 -
2.22      NAU's graduate program, the only one in Peru in agricultural
fields, is of primary importance given current efforts to revitalize the
agricultural sector (paras. 1.01-1.03), and especially the government's
plans to rebuild the state research and extension service. Yet, an
examination of 50 M.Sc. theses presented in the period 1978-1980 reveals
that the emphasis has been on scientific research rather than on problems
of importance for socio-economic development. The answer to this important
question of relevance of university studies to current efforts to improve
the performance of the agricultural sector seems to be twofold within the
actual context at NAU: first, the level of the entire economics depart-
ment, but especially of the agricultural economics graduate program, should
be raised sufficiently to create a better understanding among students and
professors in other disciplines of the role of professionals working in
agriculture in contributing to the solution of socio-economic problems
originating in this sector, and of the analytical tools available for this
task. Second, increasing numbers of economics graduate students and
teachers should be included in the program of working visits to the
Regional Development Institutes to familiarize them with actual economic
problems encountered in the field.
2.23      Research.  NAU is the most developed agricultural research insti-
tution in Peru. Research activities provide adequate support at present to
the educational program, but they will have to be reinforced to cope with a
projected increase of graduate students. Many research activities have
been carried out outside the central campus, usually in rented land located
at appropriate ecological zones of the country. Further development of
research efforts could be facilitated in the context of the Regional
Development Institutes when their proposed teaching and research facilities
are built. At that stage, research could be organized more effectively and
systematically, and its results could be tested under actual conditions
facing farmers.
2.24      Extension.  Through its educational extension directorate
(Direccion de Proyeccion Social) NAU offers various services to the agri-
culture sector. During recent years these have included technical assis-
tance and training services to several agricultural cooperatives under an
agreement signed with the Ministry of Agriculture. NAU also offers every
year about 160 short courses for agricultural technicians and profes-
sionals, and organizes international courses in cooperation with various
foreign and international organizations. Following the recent government
decision to rebuild the national extension service in the context of INIPA,
NAU's role in this area should be concentrated mostly in training INIPA's
scientific and extension personnel, and in promoting the adoption of its
research products through INIPA channels.
2.25      NAU Resources.  In pursuing its objectives, NAU faces constraints
with regard to teacher quality, buildings, and equipment, in addition to
problems of course content and orientation, and lack of appropriately
located land for research purposes mentioned in the previous paragraphs.
2.26      About 100 professors left the university in the face of mounting
problems facing higher education during the 1970s, and the proportion of
professors with advanced degrees fell from 46% in 1975 to 40% in 1981. As
a result, the present qualifications of the teaching and research staff,



- 12 -
although superior than in other universities, are inadequate, in particular
for implementing the planned expansion of the graduate program and develop-
ing much needed basic and applied research activities. It is therefore
necessary to step up the staff development program, through which teaching
staff members are sent overseas on leave with pay for post-graduate train-
ing at the M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels. Due to the shortage of public revenue
and foreign exchange, NAU has depended so far entirely on foreign scholar-
ships, which finance at present the upgrading of an average six teachers
annually, i.e., only 1.5% of the teaching staff.
2.27      In 1974 a severe earthquake destroyed NAU's classroom buildings
and many research facilities, seriously damaged the library and disabled
the four blocks of professors' offices. Most of the buildings still stand-
ing had to be evacuated and temporary installations, which are still in
use, put up. Teachers and students have had to squeeze in inadequate
accommodations to the detriment of the quality and effectiveness of teach-
ing and research. Furthermore, some scientific equipment is left unused
because of lack of space. Modest allocations in the 1981 and 1982 budgets
enabled NAU to start repairing the library and the professors' offices.
But no allocations are in view for rebuilding the classroom buildings and
the research facilities, and building necessary additional laboratories and
offices. This situation is in part the result of the expectation, until
1981, that IDB would participate in financing the rebuilding of the campus,
and in part the result of the extremely severe economic and fiscal crisis
of 1975-1980, from which the country has not yet recovered.
2.28      NAU has been able to provide its academic departments and
research programs with a fair amount cf modern equipment, through
donations by various international sources and bilateral agreements of the
Peruvian government for equipment purchase. The value of equipment thus
obtained in the last two years amounts to about US$2 mil:Lion. However, it
constitutes only a limited percentage of the amount needed to adequately
equip the academic and research areas in the central campus, and the
Regional Development Institutes.
Bank Participation in Peru's Education, Investment
2.29      Participation has been limited so far to one project (Loan
949-PE, US$24 million), completed in June 1982, after 2.5 years' delay. The
main causes of this delay were the absence of a project unit during the
first two years of the project, changes of Ministers of Education, and
shortages of counterpart funds, particularly during 1976--1978. The
project's objective has been to assist. the government in implementing the
education reform introduced in 1972, through the construction of 12 ESEPs
(Escuelas Superiores de Educacion Profesional) and 26 CEBs (Centros de
Educacion Basica), institutions considered as the principal building blocks
of the 1972 reform, and provisg-on of the technical assistance necessary for
project implementation and overall sector development. ESEPs and CEBs were
meant to introduce work oriented curricula to many cities and towns outside
Lima, usually limited to traditional modes of instruction. Problems
encountered during project implementation include weak administration of
the project unit, delays in the definition of ESEP curricula, bureaucratic
procedures blocking the use of funds allocated for technical assistance,



- 13 -
and a political decision to abandon at least parts of the 1972 reform. It
should be noted however that, according to the thinking of the new
government, the ESEPs play an important role as they will be used as
technical junior colleges for training post-secondary level technicians.
The CEBs seem to fit equally well within the proposed new organizational
structure.
2.30      In view of past neglect of investment in education and training,
the Bank is now considering an expanded lending program encompassing
various priority areas. A project providing increased coverage of primary
education in rural and poor urban areas was appraised in July 1982.
Another composite project providing for expanded facilities and improved
quality and relevance of training to a number of important vocational
training agencies will be pre-appraised in October 1982. In the critical
agricultural sector, the Bank has already approved a project for building
up the capacity of INIPA in both the research and extension areas. The
proposed project would help in the implementation of the INIPA project by
supplying and upgrading the required high level personnel.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The proposed project aims at increasing the contribution of NAU's
study programs and research activities to efforts for accelerating the
development of the agricultural sector. This objective is to be achieved
by:
(a) improving the quality of instruction and raising the practical
orientation and management skills of undergraduate and graduate
students through:
(i) rebuilding, repair, expansion and equipping of teaching and
research facilities at the central campus for 4,500
undergraduate and 500 graduate students;
(ii) provision of scholarships for post-graduate studies abroad
of teachers (about 40 at the M.Sc. and 20 at the Ph.D.
level);
(iii) construction and equipping of facilities in 4 of the farms
donated to NAU by the state, in the Costa, Sierra and Selva
regions (necessary for regular operation of the 3 Regional
Development Institutes) for practical instruction of
students in their final year and research by teachers of the
technical and socio-economic problems of each region;
(iv) overhaul of the graduate program in agricultural economics
(including teacher positions and quality, course structure,
library facilities and practical research), and
strengthening of economics and business courses offered to
undergraduates;



- 14 -
(b)  upgrading professionals already working in agricultural
extension, research, public administration and university
teaching through specialized studies at NAU leading to the M.Sc.
degree; and
(c)  contributing directly to applied research and innovation in
agriculture through:
(i) rehabilitation and expansion of research facilities in the
central campus;
(ii) post-graduate studies abroad of teachers/researchers;
(iii) applied research of teachers/researchers in the 5 NAU farms,
on regional technical anld socio-economic problems;
(iv) initial multiplication in the 5 NAU farms of improved
products developed by NAU's teachers/researchers.
Project Components
3.02      Rehabilitation/Expansion of Central Campus. (Approximate cost
US$19.1 million, net of contingencies). Structures in the teaching and
research areas of the La Molina campus, heavily damaged by the 1974 earth-
quake, would be rebuilt, repaired and/or expanded according to a master
plan prepared by a consulting consortium. E/ An important characteristic
of this master plan is the relocation of academic facilities by discipline
nuclei. The majority of buildings included in the project would be new ones
for replacing the temporary classrooms and laboratories in which classes
have been given since 1974, and the research facilities put out of use by
the earthquake. Two large laboratory blocks and part of the academic
nucleus for animal husbandry, slightly or moderately damaged, would be
remodelled and repaired.  In addition to buildings, civil works financed by
the project would include circulation roads, landscaping and a sewer
network. Buildings in the administration area would be left in their
present state (which, although not satisfactory, does not present immediate
safety risks).  Also two  office blocks damaged by the earthquake, which
the mission considers should be demolished and rebuilt but the university
authorities, with the advice of a local, consulting firm, consider safe
enough to be repaired only, would be rehabilitated with NAU's own
resources.
3.03      Upon completion of the proposed project, the rehabilitated campus
would have teaching facilities (classrooms and laboratories) for about
4,500 undergraduate and 500 graduate students, with the following composi-
tion by study area (Table 3.1).
6/   An examination of the architectural and engineering plans by the Bank,
with the assistance of an outside consultant, indicates that they are
designed to resist seismic forces at least equal to those that hit the
campus in 1974. A few recommendations for minor modifications have
been agreed to by NAU.



- 15 -
Table 3.1
NAU Enrollments
Long-Run
1981       1987  (Around 1995)
Undergraduate               3,385      3,770       4,500
Agronomy                      704                  1,000
Agricultural Engineering   466                       700
Animal Sciences               545                    700
Fisheries                     315                    400
Food Processing               422                    500
Forestry                      317                    500
Basic Science                 195                    300
Economics and Planning        421                    400
Graduate                      226        330         500
Total         3,611      4,100        5,000
UJndergraduate enrollments will grow very slowly (about 2% per annum), well
below the expected growth of total university enrollments, Lima's popula-
tion, or even the total population. This plan reflects estimates that
quality, rather than volume of output, is the critical problem for univer-
sity agricultural programs (projected numbers of graduates from NAU only
are expected to cover at least two thirds of total demand). An assurance
was provided during negotiations that NAU's total enrollments will grow at
an average rate per annum not exceeding 2% between 1982 and 1988. The
basis for estimating the rate of growth is total enrollments at NAU in the
academic year 1981. Graduate enrollments,on the other hand, will grow by
about 8% per annum, to meet the projected increased demand for profes-
sionals with higher qualifications for managerial, teaching, research, and
supervisory technical positions. A large part of the demand for graduate
studies is expected to be for upgrading professionals already working
through studies leading to the M.Sc. degree (para. 3.01 (b)).
3.04       The proposed project would also provide new buildings for the
entire research area with the exception of facilities for research in
cereals and the plants for milk and feedstuff processing, which are
adequate in their present state.
3.05       Equipment and furniture for both teaching and research areas
would be included in the project. The library would also be enriched with
additional books, periodicals, and necessary equipment. The project would
fill needs for new ,and also would replace existing, equipment which is
worn out and/or obsolete. Equipment included in the project would be
additional to expected donations from bilateral sources (Canada for
forestry, Japan for fisheries, U.S.A. in various areas), and to government
commitments to purchase equipment for NAU through official loans (Spain for
books, E. Germany for optical instruments), which amount to about US$2
million.
3.06       The modern, safer, better equipped and less cramped buildings
included in the project should enable the University to improve the quality
of its teaching and research at the central campus as follows:



- 16 -
(a) students should receive more effective instruct:ion in the new
classrooms and more intensive practical classesi in the new
laboratories 7/;
(b)  teachers should become more effective, because of more adequate
space and equipment, and also because of the expected rise in
their morale from working in a safer and more congenial
environment;
(c)  the organization of the new campus by discipline nuclei should
increase the interaction between teachers-researchers in the same
discipline and, therefore, teaching effectiveness and research
productivity; and
(d) provision of additional faci]Lities in the research area would
allow NAU teachers/researchers and graduate students to resume
more systematic and fruitful research in potatoes, cotton, native
fruits, vegetables, chickens, pigs,, cows, sheep, rabbits and
other small animals, popular diets. and pastures.
3.07       Facilities for Research and Instruction in NAU's3 Regional
Development Institutes (Approximate cost US$3TF_illion.   The project
would provide facilities (buildings and equipment) in three of the four
farms donated to NAU by the state, at Canete in the Costa, Jauja in the
Sierra, and Satipo in the Selva 8/, as well as in the farm purchased by
NAU at Tarapoto. The facilities would enable! NAU to (a) offer practical
instruction to undergraduates in their last year in a wide variety of
products and under different ecological conditions; (b) provide experi-
mental capacity to graduate students and professors (for exploring both
technical and socio-economic problems characterizing the three main regions
of Peru); (c) initially multiply improved products developed by NAU
research for sale principally to farmers-entrepreneurs specialized in the
reproduction and dissemination of such improved products to large numbers
of producers; and (d) offer extension courses and demonstrate modern tech-
niques in operation to employees of specialized private and public organi-
zations and services, managers of cooperatives, and local farmers.
3.08      Undergraduates included in this program would be from the fields
of agronomy, animal husbandry, forestry, agricultural engineering and
fisheries (para. 2.21). They and their professors from the central campus
7/   Classroom and office space proposecd in the project is comfortably
adequate only for the student popu:Lation projected for 1987. Long-run
expansion, even though very slow, will probably require additional
space, to be provided according to the existing masterplans.
Laboratories, on the other hand, should be sufficient to accommmodate
the projected student body for the longer run too.
8/   The fourth farm, at San Ramon in the Selva, would be further developed
with NAU's own resources and would be used principally for short
extension and demonstration courses, multiplication of improved
products, and research work.



- 17 -
would spend two months each in Canete, 9/ Jauja and Satipo, for a total of
six months before graduation.  Instruction in the Institutes would be
offered on the basis of existing curricula, although it is expected that
curricula would be eventually modified to reflect experience under the new
teaching conditions.
3.09      This plan would permit NAU to develop the potential of the
valuable lands donated by the state, which have been grossly underutilized
so far, to the benefit of the agricultural sector in the short (extension
and demonstration), medium (research work, multiplication of improved
products) and long (improvement in the technical and managerial capacity of
NAU's graduates) term. More narrowly, but importantly for the functioning
of the University, development of the Canete site which lies only about 50
miles away from the central campus, would permit the transfer of NAU's cow
herd 10/ there, while the milk processing plant would continue to operate
in the central campus.
3.10      The bulk of physical investment in buildings and equipment would
take place in Jauja and Satipo, allowing adequate living conditions in the
Sierra and Selva regions during the two months that each group of students
in their last year of studies are expected to stay in each region.
Practical instruction in Canete (reflecting the ecological conditions of
the Costa), on the other hand, would be achieved through daily bus trips
from the central campus, thus rendering unnecessary significant investment
in classrooms and laboratories, which would be already available in the
central campus. Consequently, investment requirements there would be
limited. The same is true of Tarapoto, where proposed physical investment
would consist of a few structures and limited equipment necessary for
research and extension courses in animal husbandry and pasture cultivation.
3.11      An important feature of this plan, whose feasibility has been
shown to the Bank's satisfaction, is that the operating expenses of the
Regional Development Institutes, functioning in all five farms, would be
covered by the sale of improved products. Therefore, the establishment and
full-scale operation of the Regional Development Institutes would not add
to the University's recurrent budget, despite their significant contribu-
tion to improved teaching and research.
3.12      Teacher Upgrading (Approximate cost US$2.3 million).  The project
would include an accelerated program of teacher upgrading, in order to
offset the loss of leading teachers/researchers during the difficult period
of the 1970s and to further improve the quality of NAU's teaching body.
This program would finance studies abroad for about 20 teachers for Ph.D.
degrees, 40 teachers for M.Sc. degrees, and 60 teachers for short (1-4
months) upgrading courses. Teachers receiving support for studies abroad
would be obligated, under NAU regulations, to return to the University and
remain for a period at least twice as long as the duration of their studies
9/   See, however, para. 3.10.
10/ Which is becoming an increasing problem because of hygiene and water
availability considerations, following the rapid advance of urban
developments around the central campus.



- 18 -
abroad. This particular type of "bonding" arrangement cannot be considered
airtight, especially since the demand for first-rate professionals from
sources outside the University is always strong, under any economic condi-
tions. However, even if some "losses" (i.e., transfer of high-level
teachers-researchers to alternative uses) occur, the combination of legal
obligation and the recently improved teaching conditions (diminished
student unrest, improved relations between the government aind the universi-
ties) should ensure for the most part the success of the proposed program
for upgrading the quality of NAU's teachers.
3.13      The teachers participating in this program would be selected from
19 (out of a total of 23) academic departments offering courses in NAU.
The criteria for selecting teaching positions and academic departments for
fellowships abroad are (a) planned expansion of post-graduate studies in
each area (only teachers with M.Sc. and/or Ph.D. degrees are allowed to
teach graduate courses); (b) priority research areas for NAIJ; and (c) need
to fill vacancies in those departments that have suffered the heaviest
losses of highly qualified personnel in the past. During negotiations, an
assurance was provided that selection oE participants to the program would
be on the basis of the above criteria.
3.14      The proposed teacher upgradingr program would be additional to
ongoing studies of a number of teachers and bilateral agreements already
concluded in this area. The number of iteachers by academic department
benefiting from these arrangements is slhown in Table 3.2.  When teachers
under these agreements and the proposed project have returned to the
University, NAU will have about 150 teachers with M.Sc. degrees and
90 teachers with Ph.D. degrees. 11/ These numbers represent about 30% and
18%, respectively, of the projected teaching force and correspond fairly
closely to the pyramidal distribution that NAU has traditionally sought for
its teaching force regarding formal qua:Lifications. The rationale for this
particular distribution derives from analysis of functional needs for
teachers and researchers at various levels of responsibility and
seniority.
3.15      At the peak of the program (academic year 1984-1985), about 15%
of NAU's teachers would be abroad on higher degree scholarships or short
upgrading trips. Although this high percentage of absentee teachers can be
expected to constrain to some extent NAIJ's teaching and researchactiv-
ities, it is lower than in a similar period of intensive teacher upgrading
in the past (when about 20% of the teacher force were studying abroad).
The experience from that earlier period showed that, despite the strain,
the University continued to function effectively. It should be noted in
this connection that NAU's rules obligate remaining teachers to assume the
teaching and research burden of colleagues studying abroad, and this system
has served NAU well so far in its efforts to raise the teaching and
research capacity of its professional workforce. As a consequence, the
proposed upgrading program would not imply an increase in NAU's recurrent
budget, even temporarily.
II/ Or probably slightly less if the net movement out of the University
and into other jobs continues to some extent in the future (para.
3.12).



- 19 -
Table 3.2
Sources of Upgrading Progrms       Projected
Teachers with
Proposed IBRD                              Graduate Degree    2 Teachers
Academic                  Project      Other A'         Total           1988         with Graduate
Department              M.Sc.  Ph.D  M.Sc.  Ph.D.    M.Sc.  Ph.D.   M.Sc.  Ph.D.     Degrees
Biology                       1     2               3      1       5     8          43
Human Resources           3            1               4             10    10         67
Rural Construction        1                  2         1     2       3      2         28
Economics & Planning     2      1     3      2         5     3      14      5         51
Statistics             3                            3              5     0          31
Physics & Meteorol.       1            1               2             9      1         40
Plant Technology         4      4     2      1         6     5      18    12          81
Horticulture           2      2                     2      2       8     3          73
Forestry Industries                    3     1         3     1       5      1         33
Forestry Management                   2      3         2     3       4      5         37
Mathematics                                                        1     0           3
Agric. Mechaniz.         3      1                      3     1       7      1         57
Nutrition              2      1     1     2         3      3      11     4          71
Fisheries              2                            2              4     0          33
Animal Husbandry          2     2     4      1         6     3      16      5         81
Chemistry              1                   2        1      2       4     5          35
Soil & Water Resources   4      2                     4      2       9      5         67
Plant Pathology          1      1            2         1     3       5     5         100
Entonology                   2            1                3       1     6         54
Soils & Fertilizer              1            2               3       5    11          84
Food Technology          3      1            2         3     3       7      3         38
Fishing Technology       2                             2             2     0           9
Animal Hygiene                                                       2      1         30
Total       37    19    19    21         56    40      155    93         49
a/ Through various international, bilateral and multilateral agreements, the most significant of
which (in terms of training inputs) are the Peru-Carada forestry program, and the Peru-U.S.
mall ruminants and research/extension programs.
3.16         Expert  Services   (Approximate  cost US$0.2 million).   The project
would finance the services of about two high level specialists, hired by
NAU according to terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank, for reorga-
nizing (in collaboration with the economics and planning department and
University authorities) the agricultural economics study area at the
graduate school level. Reorganization would involve redesigning (where
necessary) the study program, teacher upgrading through postgraduate
studies, and (if necessary) hiring new personnel. Contracting by NAU of at
least one of these specialists would be a condition of presentation of the
proposed project to the Board of Directors. The specialists would also
suggest appropriate ways for increasing the effectiveness of economics and
business courses offered to undergraduate students in all study areas.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that reports of the
specialists would be delivered to the Bank for comment within 30 days after
their receipt by NAU. Basic objectives guiding the reorganization of the
agricultural economics curriculum would be (a) practical relevance of the
program and (b) ability for applied socio-economic research.



- 20 -
3.17       The project would also finance limited support of the economics
and planning department on the part of a reputable foreign University if,
as is probable, the contracted specialists recommend it. Support would be
concentrated in curriculum design, appropriate bibliography for courses
included in the program, and short visits of NAU professors of the
economics and planning department.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.01       Investment Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
S/42,400 million or about US$34.8 million equivalent. 12/ The estimated
total cost and foreign exchange component by main project items are
summarized below:
Table 4.1 ESTIMATED COST BY PROJECT COMPONENT
% of
Base-
S/ Million         US$ Million        line
Project Component        Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost
1. Rehabilitation and
expansion of
central campus
(a) Academic Area    6498   2902   9400    9.72  4.36  14.08  54.9
(b) Research Area    1303   1057   3360    3.44  1.59   5.03  19.6
2. Regional Develop-
ment Institutes        1600    904   2504    2.39  1.35   3.74  14.6
3. Teacher Upgrading              1531   1531            2.29   2.29   8.9
4. Reorg.Agr.Econ.Prog.    8    132    140    0.01  0.20   0.21   0.8
5. Project Coordination  146        28    174    0.22  0.04   0.26   1.0
Baseline Cost a/    10555   6554  17109   15.78  9.83  25.61 100.0
Contingencies:
(a) Physical           1056    655   1711    1.58  0.98   2.56
(b) Price             13944   9634  23578    3.82  2.77   6.59
Subtotal              15000  10289  25289    5.40  3.75   9.15
TOTAL PROJECT COST       25555  16843  42398   21.18 13.58  34.76
a/   Baseline cost estimates are based on February 28,1982 prices and
exchange rates (S 550 = US$1).  They have been projected to
end-August, 1982 on the basis of current rates of inflation in Peru
and in world markets (para 4.04).
12/  These estimates include sales taxes for materials incorporated in
civil works, in an amount calculated at US$1.4 million. NAU is
exempted from import duties as well as sales taxes for purchases of
imported items sold locally.



- 21 -
4.02      Estimated project cost by category of expenditure is summarized
as follows:
Table 4.2 ESTIMATED COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
S/ Million                  US$ Million
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Structures a/                8614      2157   10771    12.88    3.22   16.10
Internal Roads,
Landscaping                  563       139     702      0.84    0.21    1.05
Professional Fees             703        34     737      1.05    0.05    1.10
Furniture                     257       175     432      0.38    0.26    0.64
Equipment                     264      2358    2622      0,40    3.56    3.96
Teachers Studies Abroad                1531    1531               2.29    2.29
Expert Services                 8       132     140      0.01    0.20    0.21
Project Coordination          146        28     174      0.22    0.04    0.26
Base Costs                  10555      6554   17109    15.78    9.83   25.61
Contingencies
- physical                  1056      655    1711       1.58    0.98    2.56
- price                    13944     9634   23578       3.82    2.77    6.59
Total Proj.Costs            25555    16843   42398    21.18   13.58   34.76
61%     39%      100%
a/ Includes site works.
4.03      Basis for Cost Estimates.  Construction costs for new, and
repairing and remodelling of existing, academic buildings, for buildings of
the research area, for the Regional Institutes, and for campus roads and
landscaping have been based on: final plans 13/, construction specifica-
tions, quantities of work, price unit analyses and budgets for construction
prepared by a consulting firm in 1977, and up-dated to February 28, 1982.
Professional fees for design modification, preparation of bidding docu-
ments, advice in contract awards and construction supervision have been
estimated at 6% of the cost of the buildings plus the cost of circulation
roads and landscaping at the central campus, and at 9% of the cost of
buildings at the Regional Development Institutes. Furniture costs for
loose furniture, have been estimated by the University on the basis of
prices offered in the local market. Equipment costs have been estimated by
the University project preparation team on the basis of equipment lists
drawn up by the respective Academic Departments and price estimates
contained in foreign manufacturers' price catalogs. Teacher training costs
are based on estimated tuition fees in U.S. and Western European universi-
ties, current cost of air travel, and expected duration of studies. For
13/  It has been agreed with NAU that final designs for the Institutes will
be modified to conform to more economical standards of space per user
(which have been agreed upon between NAU and the Bank). Final plans
for the buildings of the central campus, which under the proposed
project would accommodate 5,000 students instead of 9,000 proposed in
the initial master plan, have been consolidated to allow more accurate
offers by participating firms in the bidding for civil works.



- 22 -
a Ph.D. student/professor the total cost is placed at US$43,000, and for an
M.Sc. student at US$29,000. Expert services are estimated to cost on the
average US$8,000 per specialist7m-onth
4.04       Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost
estimates as follows:
(i)  Physical Contingencies:  10% for all items included in the
Project. This percentage is justified for civil works, despite
the existence of final designs, for the following reasons:
(a) the high percentage of repairs and remodelling, for which
standard physical contingencies are above 20%; (b) soil surveys
at a level of detail probably not completely satisfactory; and
(c) the need to consolidate final plans initially made for larger
facilities.
(ii)  Price Contingencies:   For both the local and foreign exchange
components of the items included in the project, the estimated
dollar inflation from January 1, 1982 to December 31, 1987 is
shown in Table 4.3. Inflation in terms of the Scl has been
estimated by the Peru Programs Division as follows:  for 1982
60%, 1983 40%, 1984 25%, 1985 (and beyond) 20%. Variations of
the exchange rate are assumed to compensate for the difference
between the local and international inflation rates.
Table 4.3 EXPECTED PERCENTAGE PRICE INCREASES DURING IMPLEMENTATION
1982   1983   1984  1985   1986   1987
Construction a/                        8       8      7.5    7       6       5
Professional Fees                      8       8      7.5    7       6       5
Equipment b/                          10       8      8      8       8       7
Furniture                              8       8      7.5    7       6       5
Teacher Training b/                    8       7      7      7       7       6
Expert Services b/                     8       7      7      7       7       6
Project Coordination b/                8       7      7      7       7       6
a/   Includes site works, internal roads and landscaping.
b/   Price increase projections for equipment are based upon those derived
by a Bank study which makes a periodic in-depth review of price
increase projections by major international education equipment
suppliers from several countries. Also, prices of personal services
other than professional fees are expected to rise slightly faster than
the cost of construction, as recovery succeeds the present period of
economic crisis.
4.05      The Foreign Exchange Component is estimated at IJS$13.1 million
representing some 39% of the total project cost, and has been calculated on
the basis of the following percentages of foreign exchange over total cost:
(i) construction, internal roads and landscaping, 20%; (ii) professional
fees, 5%; (iii) furniture, 40%; (iv) equipment, 90%; (v) expert services,
95%; (vi) teacher studies abroad, 100%; and (vii) project coordination,
15%.



- 23 -
4.06      Recurrent Costs.  After being completed in 1988, the project
would generate additional recurrent expenditures on the order of US$1.9
million per year at 1981 prices (the operational budget is expected to
increase from US$9.7 million in 1981 to US$11.6 million in 1988). The
major components of the increase in recurrent expenditures are teacher
salaries for US$0.3 million (to accommodate the proposed modest increase in
enrollments), consumable materials for US$1.1 million, and utilities for
US$0.2 million. The number of administrative and auxiliary personnel is
planned to remain unchanged on balance because of a relative oversupply of,
especially auxiliary, personnel. These increases in recurrent expenditures
(which should be covered by increased appropriations to NAU by Congress as
part of the annual budget approval exercise) include about 20% of projected
operating costs for the Regional Development Institutes. As mentioned in
para. 3.11, the costs of operation of the Institutes (estimated at about
US$0.5 million by 1988, at 1981 prices) are expected to be covered by the
net income from sales of improved products and by payments for services
offered to participants in extension courses, etc. Sales of products so
far have been more than sufficient to cover the Institutes' cost of oper-
ation at present levels. The estimate that a part of the Institutes'
operating expenses will have to be covered by NAU's regular budget is a
conservative one. Probably, income generated by the Institutes' products
and services for which a price will be charged will be more than enough to
cover projected operating costs.
Project Financing
4.07      Financing.  The total project cost of US$34.76 million would be
financed as follows:
(a) the proposed Bank loan of US$17.3 million would finance about 49%
of total project costs 14/ (100% of foreign costs and about 16%
of local costs), as well as a front-end fee of about
US$250,000;and
(b) the Government would finance about 51% of total project costs,
equivalent to about 84% of local costs. NAU has agreed to
contribute US$ million equivalent towards financing these costs.
The proposed financing of local costs with loan proceeds is justified by
the importance of the project for the development of the agricultural
sector, and the current balance-of-payments difficulties faced by Peru. To
facilitate project execution before the proposed loan would be effective,
it is recommended that up to US$0.25 million of retroactive financing be
made available for expenditures after April 1, 1982 on designs (para 4.03,
footnote) and other preliminary stages of civil works; teacher upgrading;
expert services; and project coordination.
4.08      Disbursement Plan.  The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed
over a period of about six years (January 1, 1983 to December 31, 1988)
against fully documented withdrawal applications, 15/ to cover:
14/ The loan would finance about 50% of total project costs net of taxes.
15/ Disbursements for repairs and remodelling for existing buildings at
the central campus, which will be done by NAU through direct
administration, will be made against statements of expenditures.



- 24 -
(a)  35% of total expenditures for civil works plus related
professional fees;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
furniture, including installation costs where applicable;
(c)  80% of total expenditures for locally procured equipment and
furniture;
(d)  100% of total expenditures for teachers studies abroad and expert
services;
(e)  100% of total costs for foreign travel and per diem, and 40% for
salaries, for project coordination.
4.09       The estimated schedule of disbursements, based otn the implementa-
tion schedule (Table 4.5) by calendar and IBRD fiscal years, is shown in
Table 4.4.
Table 4.4 ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE:
(US$ million)
Accumulated    Undisbursed
IBRD                    Disbursements  Disbursements    Balance
CY  Sem  FY  Sem Expenditures  Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount   %
1982  II 1983   I        0.40        0.00   0.0    0.00    0.0   17.30  100.0
1983   I        II       1.00        0.50   2.9    0.50    2.9   16.80   97.1
II 1984   I        2.00        0.90   5.2    1.40    8.1   15.90   91.9
1984   I        II       4.00        1.60   9.2    3.00   17.3   14.30   82.7
II 1985   I        5.20        1.90  11.0    4.90   28.3   12.40   71.7
1985   I        II       4.00        2.60  15.0    7.50   43.3    9.80   56.7
II 1986   I        5.20        2.00  11.6    9.50   54.9    7.80   45.1
1986   I        II       4.00        2.60  15.0   12.10   69.9    5.20   30.1
II 1987   I       4.00         2.00  11.6   14.10   81.5    3.20   18.5
1987   I        II       2.40        1.80  10.4   15.90   91.9    1.40    8.1
II 1988   I        1.70        0.70   4.1   16.60   96.0    0.70    4.0
1988   I        II       1.10        0.40   2.0   17.00   98.0    0.30    2.0
II 1989   I                    0.30   2.0   17.30  100.0    0.00    0.0
Total         35.00       17.30 '100.0
4.10       The estimated disbursement peiriod of 6 years is about four fifths
as long as that expected for the ongoing education proJect (Loan 949-PE),
completed in mid-82. The shorter implementation period for the proposed
project is considered feasible on the basis of: (a) more readily available
and dedicated high-quality administrative and supervisory personnel in NAU
than has been the case with Loan 949-PE; (b) advanced stage of project
preparation; and (c) the less complex nature of the proposed project.



- 25 -
Project Implementation
4.11      Project Administration.  Overall project implementation will be
the responsibility of NAU. The Rector of the University has nominated a
NAU professor directly responsible to him, whose qualifications are accept-
able to the Bank and who will be freed from his teaching and research
duties in order to work full-time to coordinate and monitor the execution
of all activities required for project implementation. This coordinator
will be assisted by a bi-lingual secretary. An assurance was provided
during negotiations that the position of project coordinator will be filled
at all times during project execution and that the person nominated will
possess qualifications acceptable to the Bank. Responsibility for various
project aspects would be distributed as follows:
(a)  The Academic Departments (each one in its own field), which have
been responsible for the preparation of lists and technical
specifications for equipment and furniture, would also assume
responsibility, subject to approval by the Rector, for (i) the
review and analysis of the bids for procurement, and supervision
of delivery and installation, of equipment and furniture, and
(ii) selection of candidates for the teacher training program.
(b)  NAU's Tendering Committee would be responsible for: (i)
procurement of equipment and furniture and (ii) procurement of
civil works. The Directorate of Accounting and Finance would
provide logistical support to the Tendering Committee, and it
would also have responsibility for project accounting and
preparation of requests for disbursements and reimbursements to
be submitted to IBRD.
(c)  A consulting firm, under contract with NAU, has been responsible
for preparing the basis for prequalification of building
contractors and the bidding documents for construction. The same
or a different consulting firm would review and analyze the bids
for construction, and would supervise the construction of new
facilities, and the remodelling and repair of existing ones.
During negotiations, the government provided an assurance that
the consulting firm staff supervising the construction of project
facilities would possess professional qualifications and
experience in antiseismic construction in conformity with terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank.
These arrangements are considered satisfactory for successful project
execution, especially in view of the fact that NAU possesses experienced
and well qualified staff in the units charged with project administration.
4.12      Implementation Schedule.  The project is expected to be imple-
mented in six years. The construction, furnishing and equipping of facil-
ities in the central campus and the Regional Institutes, the teacher
upgrading program, and the reorganization of the agricultural economics
program are scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1988. This scheduling is
considered within NAU's capacity and would serve as the basis for monitor-
ing project implementation. Expected accumulated completion rates are
shown in Table 4.5. The Closing Date for the proposed loan would be
December 31, 1988, to allow sufficient time for submission and processing
of final withdrawal applications.



- 26 -
Table 4.5 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Accumulated Percentage Completed by Calendar Year and Semester
1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987  1988
Item                    2    1  2    1  2    1  2    1   2           12
Civil Works
Site selection and
acquisition              100
Preliminary Plans          100
Final Plans                100
Prequalification
of Contractors           100
Bidding Documents          100
Award of Contracts:
(a) Internal Roads,
Landscaping                70       90 100
(b) Structures                    10  26  40  65  75  90  100
Construction:
(a) Internal Roads,
Landscaping              20  40  60  80  90 100
(b) Structures                      10  25  50  60  70  80  85  95 100
Furniture and Equipment
Lists, Specifications,
Bidding Documents          50  100
Award of contracts                 10  25       50  70  80  90 100
Installation                                10  25  50  60  70  80  90  100
Teachers Studies Abroad            3  16       42       73       80       90   100
Expert Services           12        37       62       87      100
4.13       Procurement.  Civil works irLcluding internal roads and landscap-
ing, for a total of US$17.1 million (base costs) would involve 5 sites in 5
departments. Copies of titles to legal ownership by NAU for all sites have
been delivered to the Bank. Peru's construction industry is well developed
and competitive with international bid[ders. Furthermore, repairs of
classrooms and laboratories which contain equipment and in which classes
are delivered will require above ordinary care in construction and
supervision. Consequently, civil works contracts for new buildings would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) under bidding
procedures which are acceptable to the! Bank and do not preclude foreign
contractors from participating in the bidding, except for individual
contracts for the central campus whose: estimated value exceeded US$1
million, which would be awarded on the basis of ICB. During negotiations
NAU agreed that it will package individual civil works bids to the maximum
extent permitted by the need to allow continued operation of the campus
during the conetruction period.  Repairs and remodelling would be done
under direct administration by NAU. Under these arrangements, it is
expected that about US$15.0 million worth of civil works will be awarded
under ICB procedures. Recommended contract awards for civil works of more
than US$500,000 would be presented to the Bank for prior review. For
contracts of less than US$500,000, NAU would keep bid evaluations and
contracts for ex post review by Bank staff during project supervision.



- 27 -
4.14      Equipment and furniture, of a total value of about US$4.4 million
(base costs), would be procured mainly through ICB. Equipment lists
including specifications and bidding documents were presented to the Bank
for review and approval during negotiations. Equipment items would be
packaged to the extent possible to permit bulk procurement. Equipment
packages in excess of US$200,000 would be procured through ICB. Packages
of US$20,000 to US$200,000, up to a total of US$500,000, would be procured
through local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Items or
groups of items costing less than US$20,000, of an aggregate value up to
US$200,000, for which ICB or LCB would not be practical, would be procured
through local shopping. In all cases of local procurement, most items
would be foreign made. Under the above procedures, about 85% of equipment
would be procured through ICB, 10% through LCB, and 5% through local
shopping.
4.15      Recommended contract awards for equipment of more than US$200,000
would be presented to the Bank for prior review. For contracts of less
than US$200,000, NAU would keep bid evaluations and contracts available for
ex post review by Bank staff during project supervision.  In comparing
local and foreign bids, local manufacturers would be given a margin of
preference equal to the prevailing import duty rate or 15% of CIF costs of
imported goods, whichever were lower. Manufacturers from countries of the
Cartagena Agreement other than Peru would be given a margin of preference
over other foreign manufacturers equal to the difference in import duties
charged by Peru or 15% of CIF costs of imported goods, whichever were
lower.
4.16      Auditing.  NAU, like all other universities in Peru, is subject
to auditing by the office of the General Auditor (Contralor General). The
general practice is for the General Auditor to delegate authority to an
auditing team working in, and paid by, each university but formally consid-
ered as employed by the General Auditor's Office. In addition, external
control is exercised through infrequent visits (on the average, once every
two years) by auditing teams from the General Auditor's Office and, some-
times, the Ministry of Education as well. This practice is generally
adequate for project purposes. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that either (i) the General Auditor's office will from now on
send external auditing teams to NAU on a regular basis (at least once a
year) or (ii) external auditing would be done annually by a certified
auditing firm. Under either arrangement, a copy of the audit report would
be given to the Bank.
4.17      Monitoring.  Effective monitoring is essential for satisfactory
project implementation, and the proposed arrangements indicate that moni-
toring effectiveness will be achieved. By assigning the task of project
coordinator to one of its professors, NAU has guaranteed competence,
intensive interest for the fate of the project, and absence of significant
friction between the various NAU units participating in project execution.
Civil works progress will be monitored by a private firm specialized in
this area, in close collaboration with the project coordinator and,
through him, the NAU Directorate in charge of procurement. The timing of
procurement for furniture and equipment, as a function of progress in civil
works, will be monitored by the project coordinator, and suppliers' com-
pliance with specifications by the respective Academic Departments and the



- 28 -
Directors of the Regional Development Institutes.   Selection of teachers
for studies abroad would be made by the respective Academic Departments;
the timing and location for each nominee would be jointly decided by the
Rector, the project coordinator, and the Department Chairman; and
re-integration of teachers completing their studies would be up to the
Departments, under the supervision of the Rector. Monitoring of progress
in reorganizing the agricultural economics program and improving the
quality of economics courses would be included in the terms of reference
(to be agreed upon between NAU and the Bank by negotiations) of the
specialist(s) contracted for advising NkU on such reorganization. The Bank
could contribute to effective monitoring; by staffing supervision missions
with the necessary personnel (educators familiar with the operation of
agricultural universities and, occasionally, an economist with an agricul-
tural economics background).
4.18       Evaluation.  Because of long gestation periods, the effects of
the proposed project on teaching and research quality, and even more on the
development of the agricultural sector, can be evaluated only tentatively,
and then only with regard to few componeints, during project execution.
Even so, it will be of interest to assess those effects of the project that
can be measured, or at least inferred, by the time the project is com-
pleted.  Such effects can probably be studied in the areas of:
(a) utilization of physical space and equipment, espec:Lally in class-
rooms and laboratories, as a result of design and tequipment
procurement plans;
(b)  adequacy and utilization of library facilities;
(c) operation of the Regional Development Institutes;
(d) teacher upgrading and utilization (initial stages); and
(e)  reorganization of the agricultural economics program, and of
general economics courses,
Evaluation of the effects of the project in these areas could be carried
out mostly by NAU professors. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that NAU would carry out evaluation of the effects of the project
previously described, according to a plan. and timetable agreed upon with
the Bank by June 30, 1983.   For topic (e), the consultant(s) could be
recontracted towards the later stages of the project, to help with evalua-
tion. The Bank could contribute to this limited evaluation effort if, in
addition to the standard completion mission, it scheduled and staffed its
supervision missions so as to respond to the need for evaluation and
support NAU staff in their efforts.



- 29 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01      The ultimate benefit of the proposed project would be  to raise
Peruvian farmers' productivity and incomes in the medium and long run.
This benefit would come about through:
(a) The graduation of professionals, at both the undergraduate and
graduate levels, better prepared technically and with increased
managerial skills, who would take up positions of increased
responsibility in (i) agriculture-related public offices,
(ii) the research and extension institute (INIPA), (iii) manage-
ment of farm cooperatives and private farms, (iv) agriculture-
related commercial, manufacturing and banking enterprises, and
(v) agricultural programs of Peruvian universities.
(b) The strengthening of research (both basic and applied) activities
at NAU and the dissemination of the products of such research
through NAU students, collaborative agreements with INIPA, and
initial commercial production at the Regional Development
Institutes.
5.02      The distributive effects of the project should be also positive.
It is probable that investment in higher education has negative immediate
distributive effects when compared, for example, with investment in rural
primary education. But the expected further benefit of raising farmers'
incomes (as well as the standard of living of poor urban groups through
lower food prices) should have stronger distributive effects than the
relative increase of professionals, who are paid more highly than less
skilled occupational groups.
Risks
5.03      One identifiable special risk of the project would be a strong
e!arthquake causing heavy damage to project facilities, as happened in 1974
when several buildings in the central campus had just been completed. The
appraisal mission was satisfied that buildings constructed according to
current structural designs should withstand earthquakes at least as strong
als the one in 1974. Additional safeguards would be (a) to include at
appropriate times in supervision missions a structural engineer, rather
than an architect, for more effective supervision of civil works; and
(b) an assurance that supervision of civil works would be done by profes-
sionals highly qualified and experienced in antiseismic construction.
5.04      A second risk is that the government may not provide continued,
and expanded, financial support to NAU's operations in the future.
However, as the government has provided such support at adequate levels in
the past in the midst of a grave economic and fiscal crisis, and given that
the present government strongly supports the proposed project, this risk
may not be large.



- 30 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       During negotiations the Government has provided assurances that:
(a)  NAU's total undergraduate enrollments would grow at an average
rate per annum not exceeding 2% between 1982 and 1988. The basis
for estimating the rate of growth is total enrollments at NAU in
the academic year 1981 (para. 3.03);
(b) The selection of participants to the program of te!acher studies
abroad would be on the basis of criteria agreed upon with the
Bank (para. 3.13);
(c)  Reports prepared by the specialists contracted for the
reorganization of the agricull:ural economics program would be
delivered for comment to the ]3ank within 30 days after their
receipt by NAU (para. 3.16);
(d)  The position of project coordinator will be filled at all times
during project execution and t:he person nominated will possess
qualifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.11);
(e)  The consulting firm staff supervising the construction of project
facilities should possess professional qualifications and
experience in antiseismic construction in confonnity with terms
of reference acceptable to the! Bank (para. 4.11(c));
(f) A report by an external auditing team (either from the General
A.uditor's office or from a private certified audLting team) would
be prepared annually and, together with NAU's certified financial
statements, would be forwarded to the Bank for its review and
comments within 6 months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 4.16); and
(g) NAU staff would evaluate project effects according to a timetable
to be agreed upon with the Bank by June 30, 1983 (para. 4.18).
6.02       Contracting of at least one specialist on reorganizing the agri-
cultural economics and economics area of studies would be a condition of
Board presentation (para. 3.16).
6.03      Up to US$0.25 million of retroactive financing should be made
available for expenditures on the preparatory stages of civi:L works,
initiating the teacher upgrading program, and contracting expert services
(para. 4.07).
6.04       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Peru of US$17.3 mil-
lion equivalent, with a term of 17 years including a grace period of
4 years.



- 31-
PERu                                                        A2NNEX I
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT                                       Page 1 of 2
Comparativ  Edcation Indicators
Septebr29, 1982
:CENTRAL:
I       GOVT.    I                                I:                I*I
:EKF. ON:                 :         I       I           PRI. IRECURRENT:               I       lEn.C
:tDUu. AS: EDUCATION    ILITER-    PRI. ICOMFL.E- :STU- :UNIT COSTIPROGRESS-I  SEC. ISTS-  HIGIHE k:
I  I          i~~t% TTL. :RECURRENT    IACV       IENROLL:TION        IDENTS:PRIM. ED.-ION RAT-El IENROLL:DE.NTiiENR0)LL
GNP/ :    GNP  :CENTRAL:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE IRATIG  :RATE FDRFPER   :RS 1 GNP/IFRUM PR?.C.RATID IPER   IRAIlO
8ASE:POP.   :CAPITA: DEVOTED: GOVT. I            TO:       Ill OF  I NET  IPRI.SCN. ITEACH- CAPITA   :TO SEC.             NET   ILARCH- CR0D15?
YRIMILLS.I  (US$11 TO EDi)]: EXP.  IPRI. SEC. HI,.IADULTS3)I  (T    ICYCLENXUER    I                     I  ()         (X91   hFR    I 
*     819798(197911                         1                8~~~~~~~~~~~~~191761 
DIEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA        SD  14.6    8,870   6.3A        14.6                tIOOA  103X          100        21      -99                   73      13    210.9!)
CANADIA          81  23,7    9,650A  7.7A        1B.5AY 3DA? 34A?  23A? 99   106K             100        21      19.9W'   100          925     lB     2.0
GERMANY, F.R. 79  61.4  12.220   4.6              9.9A89A                                    lODA ---    ----9A- A -.-IDOA            94A     -_-    12..1OA
NETHERLANDS    79  14.1  11,084   7.9             5.1   20    35       25    99'    96         95        18      15.3       99         821     13      12.4(0
NEW ZEALAND   80    3.2   6,081   5.5W           13.4    37   31       28    99   100         100        24      11.6      100         82      15      ?,.).B0X*
SWEDiEN         79   8.3  12,863   9.0           18.2    31    10      10   99A   99K         lOG        iRAk    19.9      100         79K     IOA?   36,tiOAY
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA        80    0.88      7200  6.3P       19.3   46   28        15   31.8   94          74        32      22.0       33**       20      15       1.50
BURUNDI         81   4.2        235   2.88BW    19.0    42    35       23   25      28K        35        37      22.6       12          3K     17       1.00
COMDROS          80   0.4B      260   6.5W       25.4    40   28       14   ---   99K          65       45       16.0       58         21K     30       1.40
OJIBOUITI       81   0,3        460   5.4        10.8   60   40        ...  10      32         ---       41      ---        60          8      19       0.50
ETHIOPIA         80  31.08      13014  2.2P      11.1A  52   32        14A  15      38         ---      59       18,0       --          9      41A      5.10
KENYA           79~ 15.3        390   5.9W       18.08  71    15       14    45     92         74       40       15.8       41         19      28       1.00
LESOTHO         80    1.3       410P  4.3P       21.0   51   24        25    52     64         61       49        4.0       64         17      21       0.90
MADAGASCAR       77   8.5       330   4.OW       24.0   53    28       19    50     94BK       33       558       8.0       38         14      23       3.108B'
MALAWI           81   6.18      230D4  3.4       10.28  38    14       25   258    62          23       65        5.8       12          4      21       0.40
MAURITIUS        79   0.9    1,0808  6.89        17.58  50    26        6     _-_-  82Y        99       2089    19.5'       90         738XY  278Y   1.568
RWANDA           80   5.08      2808  3.2        21.3   62    17       II   238    57K         62       40       14.0        6          4K     13       0.40
SOMALIA         78   3.8        185A  2.0W       11.0   55    10       21   508    2689        -.--     278      20.4       538         48K    168      1.00
SUDAN            78  17.9       450   4.5W       19.9   48    36       16   208   508K         74        358     46.7       33         1614K    198     1.07Y
SWAZILAND       78   0,5        650   7.1W       12.2   36   33        18    658    8089       49A      3589      7.7       66A        338KY  20A      2.00
TANZANIA        80  18.5        260    5.9       17.7   47    10       16   798    988         87       21       11,0       198         3      20A     0.018
UGANDA           80  12.68      3008 ---         16.1W  238  378    208  48         54K        61       34       ---        17          5      23       0.60
ZAIRE            78  27.5       21DA  6.0W       22,0    49   26       25    1S    849         44       42X    ---          41         13X    27        1.108)'
ZAMBIA           80   5.78I    5668  4.5P        11.1   48   23        22   448   95           80       48       12.9       19         16      22       1.50
ZIMBABWE        81    7.78      7008  5.1        19.5    62   32        6   448   90           55       39       20.0       85         15      23       0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
DENIM            79   3.48      3208  6.5W       35.0    43   21        5   118   42           30       46       14.0       30         It      43       1.009
CAMEROON         78   8.2       590   2.99       16.09   33A  43A    20A  --    749            45A      509      11.8A      20A        149     26       1.309
C.A.R.           79   2.2       280    3.8AY   20.6AY9--- --                   --   _         ---      65AY                                   ---      0.70AY
CHAD             76   4.4       120   2.48WY  21.714- --                    15     259         -       77                  ---         3Kv    21       0.20Y
CONGO (8)        76   1.5       670   9.DAWY  27.7AY9--                                        --       5689     --         30        ---      4389    4,OOAY
GABON           77   0.6    3,420   3.789         8.49-         -            -- --            --       468Y     --         ---       ---      1989    2.80AY
GAMBIA          77   0.6        220   3.3AW       6.58   46   25A       6A  108   4089         90A      2789    44.7A       40         128XY  17       --
GHANA            76  11.3       400   4.09       15.58-         -     ---- 718XY    ---                2789    ---         ---        368XY  21       --
GUINEA          77   5.3        270   4.38P    20.08  30A  31A    30A  20           348XV      168      398      31.1?1    868         158KV  24       5.1089
IVORY COAST    81    8.28  1,0708 10.0           45.0    33   46       13   308    60          86       43       26.0       47         15AKY  26        1.90AY
LIBERIA          80    1.9      520   4.6        19.6    43   23       24   30      52         32       35       20.0       76         22      20      2,90
MALI             77   6.78      1808  4.28       21.78  45A  37A    iBA  10         288XY      --       4389    ---         50          6K     ---     0.9089
MAURITANIA      78    1.681    3208  5.5         16.9    33   43       25    1714   32         60       44       52.0       30          9      25      0.37
NIGER            78   5.2       300   4.3AY   16.6AY 52A  43A           5A a8    17            56A      41A      38.7A      40          2      248     0.20Y
NIGERIA         77  82.6        910   4.19        9.6--------- ---                                       --     --         ---        10KV    25      0.179
SENEGAL          77   5.5       450   5.0        23.0    46   34       20    10     348XY      --       4389    ---         20         10      21      2.208Y
SIERRA LEONE  77   3.4          250    4.08      16.08158-- --   IE   37K                     ---      35       25.08      84         15K     22      0.60B4)
TOGO            78    2.4       400    6.5GW    26.50  30A  28A    21A  18          74         40       5489    38.0        52        328KY  488       1.6089Y
UPPER VOLTA    78   5.6         180    3.OAW    I9.3AY 31    16        32   ---    1589        23       5389    52.5?       19          38KV   25      0.02Y
LATIN AMERICA AND TNE CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA        78  27.3   2.210    2.7         10.9    43A  31A    ISA  938   89             52        17      --         87         31       8     23.00
BAHAMAS          79   0.2   2,770   5.7          19.1    36   36       11   938    99          97       24       --         97         75      19      --
BARBADOS        78   0.2   2,680   8.5AWY  22.1A  43A  31A    16A  998  1009                   99A      27Y      19.9A      99A       78Y      20Y9     -
BOLIVrA         80    5.4       550    4.IAY   30.5A              --  --63      749         -       209       -         ---        159     ---    12.60Y
BRAZIL          79 116,5    1,770    3.8          6.2   51      --   14   76        73AY9       -       23AY      4.58      618        ISAY    14AY  12.628
CHILE           76  10.9    1,890    3.289    13.08                         --    --1198KV --      3489     --         ---        558XY  2089   11.90BY
COLOMBIA        80  26.78  1,1808   3.3          25.0    35   20       20    818    78         36       32        6.6       ---        47      20     10.02AY
COSTA RICA       80    2.28   1,8108  8.4        31.1    40   27       33   90      93         77       33        5.5       77         40      27     14.00
CUBA            78   9.8         ---  8.0        11.0            --  --96    112BXY        98        1889    --         98         718KY  iS      19.0289
DOMINICAN REF 78   5.3    1,030   2.19           13.99            --  --67      ---                      ----- --       --         --      -- --
ECUADIOR        s0    8,48  1,110   6.OP         36.7    45   31       16   81    105          --       36       12.6       86         47      16     291.00
EL SALVADOR    77   4.4         640   3,489    23.189 64         8    27   62       828KV      32       39       ---        41        26BXV  2789    7.90BV
GUATEMALA       78    6.8    1,010    1.7AY   12.68-            -     ---- 6598XY             ---      3589    ---         69         158KY  1989    5.509
GUYANA          76   0.8        630   8,189    13.8149--              ----    998KV           ---      3289    ---         ---        598KV   ---     3.008Y
HAITI           s0    5.08      230   3.4VW       7.9AY 65       9      6   23B   50           20       41       19.0       62A         4A     27      0.80
HONDURAS         78    3.6      520   3.58Y   14.3BV 62A  ISA    19A  60            898KV      30A      4189    12.SA       68A        21KV    19      8.009
JAMAICA         80    2.1    1,110    6.5        13.7   37   43        20   90      98         98       40        2.3       95         81      22      8.00
MEXICO           80  65.5    1,880    4.7        I7.OA  46    39       15   92      98         53       44        9.5       86         56      17     10.30
NICARAGUA       78   2.68       6108  3.0O4W    14.08-   -            --908    858K           24       378      ---        ---        268K    308    --
PANAMA          78    1.88C  1,5508  5,58WY  21.889 42A  13A    13   828    9589Y              ---      2589    11.6        85A        5089    2789   20,4089
PARAGUAY         79   3.0    1,140    1,4W       14.2   42    17       20    84     83         32       28        3.1R      76         22      12      0.70
PERU            80  16.6    1.000   3.6          14.3   53    15       19   80      83         56       39        9.8       89         39      22     14,409
TRINIDAD I T. 77    1.1   3.910    4.88V          8.889 48   32        20   95      98         91       30       10.1.'     49         62      24      --
URUGUAV          78   2.9   2,500    2.5          9.48- -- --94    1058K                      ---      248      --   ---             648X   ---    17.80AY
VENEZUELA        78  14.4    3,440   5.19        18.98---- --82    1068K                      ---      280       -   ---              388K    17     21.109



- 32
5108-05 60 1100_T56   DU CATOI _ DPRIOJEC T.
Cowgre::v y_Ed-ooln  odonor
8.;Ow8- o9, 1540
I     80. ON:I                                             I 1 PAX,  INECUNNENi           I       16.
I   I         IEDUO S  EDIUCATION    ILl/O N-   OK).R   IDOFL-         TU1- 10611I COSI IPKDDRESA-:% SOT   il-   4048
I  I          I%~~:  TTL I  ECURRENTIAY          IAOLLITIN          IENTSF IMRI4    El.  I O  RAIN  ENNO.4 "-4 I HINHEL  I
I69/ 3I      4 ON  E:ENT6AUEOP ALL3L'ATE))I  RYATE  SB/So  FR~ATE FO,RIHEN   AS    OA1P/tFNOM FPRI,:RATIDOEM           RAIt) 
685 t0. CAPITA), DEVOTED). BOT 7I        TO)       t45 00    NETI      DI..04 SC TEACH- CAMF ITA   1 U4SEC:.    Met  :1E080- GA0Ut
Y    IUIS$(6)1 tTO 2r1U.: 88P.  (PRO. SEC. HI. tAIULTS)IWE)  :CAOLE:%E::R                            10      Io        ER' !0)
ICCi                P  )  I       I          I                                      I
I1)I  (3::  I()           (41   1      I)        I  (A)   :(7)   I  IA)  'I1) 1)  IoU)           (IL(:)    i)2) 3)         4O)        
EAST ASIA AND TAE RN 0010
042f A          74 450.8E      260   3,3         6,6   24    34      UT'  68    49           64        27       B80      a 83       47       14      2.AO
0I0L0A5 4.4                    3U 30              iA8    3               -326    94AX        AN       34        1.4      44         28AX     I      2OO
KOEA            0$3/U        1.2      2.7880   II469 35'  24    34   4936    OOBY            94        488                9 1.      APAY    348    I1.4OA~ IY
MALAYSIA       ISB4.8 1.40B02                   22.     34    3       3    66      6          4       2          -       8           l       7       37(
PAPUA N.0.      7    29.4      760   E.t        846      .*-                    5IK          73       31       1.                   64 AE   2
PHIL0PPNS:S    79  48.36       A9OS  2.8 13     14,0 64   365* -    726   S4                 8)s       1 tAM                        2      362001
SIN AIMAPURK    80 U.N       4.420   2.7         6.7   39   40       10    85    42-         *2        31       6.8      46         02      2         .0
SOLOMON I'L.80   02           460   4 .2 'W     D00.3     41 34     20 -_601                80       2A31                          J.I
THAlILAN).      AU  47AS        7235 ,4         30,4    045   :0     0     a fSA    96       -         07       9 .3     09          8      22      4 .00
504T14 ASIA
BAAALAIEOH      74   2,6         90   0.00If    10.18Y 21.  1?1    20   32A    83/           ---      021                ---        14X    23        0.43
16N28 7I  8A46b2y                    0 340 Y     9.8 ?W--            --    36     784                          -                    2.L -           f,OAY
NEPAL          BAS  14.36`    040   2,8          94     2     18     3     1      84         30       3ff     -AX8 0f                       24 A     .04AY
FANIUTAN        74  74,7 2702,0Y2.IY437 282724080                                            5aD       fA       6.0      St          08     IV       8.00
EUROIPE. AMIDLIO E8E0/ AND NORTH9 4F0119
AFDAHANISTAN   74  015.0         -     L 07      3.7   47    0P6     1    02,    3080        84A      376                A           A 8    2289    100
AILDEKIA        79  014.3   1700   3.88         17.24U   34f  2 68   20   31.    400X        ADA      3D .0              08         244x   28        3.0Y
LOOP!l          70  OB.        00  .008          580 30   321    08    44         7460       80       346       A        83         4768   1205    05000
IREECE 0        76 43    4. L40   3,8           100,88   3?   38     21           9/9Y                296vE      ,2w     -X-PAO             27P0   17DY
IRAN            79  3864 Y        -    .74       4.8            -           '     048        --        3       -                    4488X   344     4.90AY
IRAN            74    0.    2.700    4,384       8,48   --.-.000 D                             -      38-Y               -          4080    3482    9.30A0
IIREL.AND       AS   3.46   4,401   6.3AY   bR.AY               -          95     93         94       29                 98L5                4     10.00I
~0D AN          7      .      L0.00   4.1W       7.3    04   44      la   706   490           50       3        7.2      94         48      3        40
LEBANON         79   2.3                        18,6A40/                    -- 960          -.-       19     ---        ---        48X    ---   27:.SOAY
M0400C0         AU  04.0       740   6.3AW   18.04   36   44         20   28      5850       30       34       04.7      40         228     20       420
0444N           78 0.4    0.10        3.7AWY  4.98AY--438 A                                 -        208 A    --    -   -- -        70 
ROMA NIA        78  22.0     2D100    3,960 Y    6.20          -           45    I 00664l             20       -         98 a       8450    22      I00606Y
044K            7 637.0 4.920   2101 6,80-00                                                 --        29       -         --        67      ---      4.100Y
000            78 a 8.86     ,10     4.40      003    39   25       26   SB      8764       80)      308      -         685        41EBY   209    02.60
TUN8112         79 6.4    0.130      D700       140    42   OP    08   862   0000            50       348      13.0B     40         200     30       6.00
000680Y         79   4.3       ,0 .AO 3AAwY  18.6      -            _ --.  60   lOONA        ---     305      ---       ---        408     27       7.07AY
084E4 4.1.      50   8.8       430       D1.008 12.0    9/4    7      7 208    37            008      OfY      87:0      50          3      30      0.10
00486. 0,.6.R 50    0,9        424   8.0        10.3   63    24       B8 408    65           03       34       22,4      51         022     06      2.50
86448R0 F3K DEVE0LO0ING CO)Jf/IEO 1
Nu04E00 0r C0061R0121                s0      94        64   6?   61       705    3        60         41      38         68         46      83      94
KANOE:                    (1.,4-  (2.0-    (14- (7-) (-)  (4-,  (0-)   )12-               )17-    (.-- (1              (2-      (5-)  (0.0
1.0)  40.0)   94)  46)  36)   44)          L00      991       77)    67.0)       99)        e1)     45)    09.0)
OUARTI,E02   00004 I               0.6     29.9      52   31    21    51       94        80        41      20         54        52       23     00.8
SELUIss:4,0                   L 004   43   28   19       60      53        81        31      12         60        233      30      3.2
LOWER I              3.0     00.3     37   07   04       23      03        39        249      7         34        14       09      0.0
3U8K/ILE DEVIATION:                0.3      4.7       7,4  5,?  3.5  28,9  30,4          30.0       6,0     8.3       22.5      04.3      0.0   4.8
MEAN:                              4.4     00.. 9    4    27   E8    32  ~73              81       36      18         59        30       33      3.2
STANDARD UEVZATIONI                I.e      7,4      00   100     7     30     26        21        01      14         07        04        7       .7
MEDIAN:                           A4.0     09.4      43   25   04    20        530 811   6         31      13         80        33       22      3,4
SYNSOLS:                                                F0/5TN8TE1
--    ATUM UNAVAILABLE                                  A   081U4 P6000T TO BiASE YEAR
48 MGNITUDE8 AIL 04 AEGLIISILO                          B D08164 MORE 4E0042  TH6N BASE Y088
DA06U0  0UES/IONABLS                                    N   0658ENT Pr,ICES
8  INCLU OaSF PAT-/XAE 0S6084/fSF. GIiP
8*    00480480 WI/N  FNOIAKO0   INCLUDES F08E13N 822,
COMBIN60E8  WI/A  410680 Y                                  004/RAL OOSIEKN ME4T ONLY
* 408 842 TATS SOVERNMERT ONLY
U   EKCL UDESCENTRAL GO8ERHMEKT
1    I NCLUDES    IAT4/  EXPENDI TUi
8 PUBLICESKPENOITUKEC ONLY
0   INCLUDES fOVE-AfBET5DE08T/
Y =UNESCO SDUKCES
SOURCES:
COLUMNS 0 8140 00 AORLD BANS ATLAS OK IARD MI OSIII
COLUJMNS 3 TO 04:1 RDM 4206N06 AND/ORk UNESCO Sr~TV,STIUCAL YEARBOOK.
00MPARATIVE EDUCATION DtATA 448 USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF 84R1200 EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANAL/SIN 00 RELATIVE STASES OP ED0CATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VAKRIOUS COUN/RIES.  HOWEVER. ON TAE DASIS CF T48 PRESENT DATA. CROSS-NATIONAL CO MP ARSSON SHOULO aEAPP50ACHED
WI/N  FREAT  CA U/bAN   DA TA P0888ENT82 IN TH48 ABO CVE TABLE WAVE 6084N COLLECTED LARGEL Y By SANK MISSIONS FRkOM G1LVERNMEN/ SOUR CES  148H
REMAINDER ARES S/APP Es/rMA/ESOS Of/A PSOIM UNEDOCO. EFPPIKTS AE VEENM4808 TO TAN6VA8DI28 DEFIAITI DNS AN0,WI0/HIN LOI TS, TO04800
THEA5 CUKACYOPTHEDATA.  ANEVERTHEL.ESSS,SUCH DATA ARE 0/LLH IPEBSPECT IN.  ESERAL REPECTSANTH  BANK I   ORKIN   TOIIMPROVEC/48K
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE D0040104 F 1/BOF'ERAT1ONAL WOR K. IN THE USE OF THEE DATA, THE POLLOWING SUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE 489T IN
(0) -EDUCATION' AS O'EFINED DN 248 TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TR'AINING, BOTH FORMAL AND NON-FORMMAL.
42) 9PRIMARY' EDUCATION REFERS TI EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' PO.UCATION REFERS TO ALL 80004T00N A/ /48
SECONfiAS LEVEL, REGAR2LESSOF0 T/PE E.G. GENERA L TECHNICAL. AORSZCULTL1RALI
43) 'LITERACY RATES'  COOL.Y6)WNKEROFTEN,ISTAINEDFRO    OUN/KY,CENSUSES.   ONWMANYC000NTRIES 04E0 ARE SALY NPPROXIAATIONS AND
IT IA EDOUBTFUL TH AT ANY UIFORM DEFIATG  OF  LI3TERTE'  488 BEEN FLOE  0 3ETLY.
(4)  PFUBILIC EXPENDITURE_ N EDUCATIONH  ICOLS.  4 AONE TI REFERS TO ALL CAPITAL AND REDURRNTH EXPENDIrURES DEVOTEDI TO EDUCATION
BY PULIEC ANOD QUASI-PUBLOC AGENCIES.
10) 'ENROLLMENT A7/005' (1065, 7. 00 ANDD141 REFERT lU OCHADI. YEAR ANDI ANEETHEUF'ERCEN/TAGE OP ELIGIBLS 041IL0R8N ENROLLED PULI-TIME
IN T48 APPROFRoNItTE SC HOOL,  PUBLIC       VKANTE BY LUVEL    THREY AYE UP/EN SUBuECO TO A .00  4NV6O                  RRO IN 'THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TOaARIATIONS IN THE ACCURACY OP ABAIC TAT (I.E AE-PEIFIC P.OPULATIO,N AIND ENROLLMENTS , ENRRDLLMEAT
FIaI)RE  PE UERTLY 842REHI         THAN  T4E ANMBER' 0F sTuDlE      ACTALLYIN SHOL.  0V8K-AS   STUDENTS 84002 INCLUSION is
IND ICATED By F'ICOTHOC,TER ALRSC CAN 0NFLATRTHE KATIOS.



- 33 -
P E R U                                         ANNEX 2
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UNIVERSITIES
TARAPOTO: U.N. de                             l
San Mar in  (A)           IqUITOS: U.N. de la Amazonia
Peruana (A F,L)
CAJAMARCA: U.N. Tecnica de C jamarca
(A V)   fJ 
PUCALLPA; U.N. dt Pucallpa
PIURA: U. P. de                                              A                                    (A)
Piura
U.N. Tecnica de Piu                                                           TINGO MARIA: U.N, de la
Selva (A L Z)
CHICLAYO: U.N. de La-                                                          HUANUCO: U.N. Hermillo
bayeque Pedro Ruiz Gallo                                                                     Valdizan (A)
(A G V Z)      \ t~>-/\   t       / 4        /     /    vt CERRO DE PASCO:
U.N. Daniel Alcides Carrion (Z)
TRUJILLO; U.N. de
Trujill  A >/
HUARAZ: U.N. de Ancash (G)                                               HUANCAYO: U.N. del Centro del
A                                           Peru (A F L ZJ
HUACHO: U.N. Jose Faustino Sanchez              A*
Carrion (P)                                                             AYACUCHO: U.N. San Cristobal de
L I M A:                                                                                     Huamanga (A)
U.P Victor Andres
Public Universities                                                                     Belaunde
U.N. Mayor de San Mar-                                            AM
cos (V)
U.N. de IngenieriaIC
U.N.    Agraria (A F G L P Z)            Luis Gon-                                         CC   UN  Sa  Ant
U.N. Federico Villareal CP)              zaga (A P                      A                  CUSCO: U.N. San Antonio
U.N. de Educacion                                                                                  Abad (A Z)
U.N. Tecnica de Callao (P)
Private Universities
P.U. Catolica del Peru
U.P. Peruana Cayetano Heredia                                                         PUNO: U.N. Tecnica del
U.P. del Pacifico                    AREQUIPA: U.N. de San                                   Altiplano (A V)
U.P. de Lima
U.P. San Martin de Porres                       Agustin (A)
U.P. Femenina del Sagrado Corazon
U.P. Inca Garsilaso de la Vega
U.P. Ricardo Palma
TACNA: U.N. de Tacna (L P)
AREQUIPA: U.P. Catolica Santa Maria
A PUBLIC UNIVERSITY       * PRIVATE UNIVERSITY      * UNIVERSITY OFFERING AGRICULTURAL AND/OR FISHERIES PROGRAM
A = Agronomy     G , Agricultural Engineering    V = Veterinary Medicine     P = Fisheries
F = Forestry    L = Food Processing              Z = Animal Husbandry



I



- 34 -
PERU
ANNEX 3
HIGEER AGRICULTURAI, EDUCATTON PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE NATIONAL AGRARIAN UNIVERSITY
[  e -       _ ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      I
and~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~  InIa on
A -1  1, G1 1-s'_                                                                                           _A
' IS   G d .                 . .f                                                                                      . 
It ]  E,l   CIA den                     AS,,,,,, |1, |A, flp,,    M,h                                   A||PIAIA|
-  A.,,,,lA,I                                                                                                                                                                                         W,,,I,, P6,,k 2IAOi~~~~~~~



w   v                                                                                                     -              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
PERU
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROWECT FILE
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al - Educaci6n: Contribuci6n al desarrollo socio-econ6mico,
UNESCO, 1978.
A2 - Estudio de bass del uistema de investigaci6n, educaci'n y
extension agr!cola, Min. de Agric. INIA, 1979 (2 vols).
A3 - Plan Operativo 1980-81 del sistema nacional de la
universidad Peruana, CONUP 1980.
A4 - Proyecciones de empleo por ocupaciones, INIDE 1980.
B. General Reports and Studies on the Project
Rl - Peru - Project Paper, Agricultural Research. Extension
and Education, USAID, 1980.
B2 - Proyecto de inversion "Universidad para el desarrollo",
Universidad Nacional Agraria (Resumen), 1980.
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl - Peru: Major Development Policy Issues and Recommendations
(2 vols), The World Bank, 1981.
C2 - Analysis of the Structure and Operations of the National
Agrarian Univeristy, Carlos Garces, 1982.
C3 - The National Agrarian University in the Context of
Higher Agricultural Education in Peru, A. Magnen, 1981-82.
C4 - Universidad Peruana, poblacion matriculada, CONUP, 1978.
C5 - Programas, grados y titulos segun universidades, CONUP, 1979.
C6 - Borrador de documentos de trabajo, I. Matallana, 1982.
C7 - Recommended space reprogramming for IRDs,
I. Matallana, 1981.
C8 - Proposed Project Timetable, UNA, 1982.
C9 - Convenios suscritos por la UNA, UNA, 1981.
CIO - Plan of La Molina Campus at Present, 1981.
Cll - Project Working Papers.






IBRD 16499
TUMBES$s    .                                                 PE RU    70                                    IOUITOS               --- 72*                                /        <        JU!Y  1982
4 HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION  PROJECT 4
PIURA
\CHACHPOYAS MOYOBAMBA
;Tarapot
CI-IICLAYO                '                                      '     ''                    f
CAJAMARCA
B    R    A              Z    I    L
-8        --                            TRUJILLO
PUC AL LPA.
-0Tingo Mario
HUARAZ                                                                                 
HUANUCO                              ;
[-E]CERRO DE PASCO
Hracho o   S    Ra ,ran
SattPo
120                                           LlMA~~ ELIMA,"
-12                                                             i      A           HUANCAPO(*)                                                                                        U         X
HUANCAVO  -  -                                   6'                  ~~~~~~~~~PUERTO
HUANCAVELICA                             2                                      MALDONA
S. Vtcerte de Cahete 9;        -                    AYACUCO 
ABANCAYV    E' z'j
CA      Central NAU  Caopus                                          .
Region-l Development lstlns                                           ICA
ZN      NAU  Regional Development Institute (OoCside ProJect)    -               l
Ej      University offering Agriculturol and /or Fisheries Program    -                                                                                                        * \J
, _, R.ve,s
Y9      Notional Copiro1                                                                                                        /
      Deportment Copitols
0      Other Towns
DDeortment Boundar,es
4                 -16       -*-        Internationol Boudorores                                                                                                                          PUNO
16'
--     AREQUIPA 
KILOMETERS-                                                                                                   f
0            00          200           300 
MOQUEGLA
Thiootap hashbe-nprrpa-dbvythe Wor/d -aokr staff e-clys,veir to, the ontnienice                                                                 i 
gf threeadters of re-repr ro whchy  -1-oarrhed Thr d--nr -nt,oond and re
b-ood-ncssowm on h i-map do-notj inply  i rh i p-t of the World -ie -rdrt,
afOia rot. evv,iioeirnn Irmhe legt :1tatos of aiirite,ritrti  or wny eno serooent r 0                                                              0-                 K
. -acceptarrc of s-bb ..u ddri-s                                                                                                                         TACNA
80                                                       7,6                                                       72                       CHILE           i            68-



