Document of
The World Bank     
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3393-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$17.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
October 19, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in 1981 and as of September 30, 1982 were as
follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981               September 30, 1982
US$1              S/. 426.60                  S/. 792.77
S/.1             US$0.0023                    US$0.0013
S/.1,000         US$2.34                      US$1.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
bpd   =  barrels per day
ERP   =  Economic Recovery Program
IDB   =  Inter-American Development Bank
INIPA =  Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Promocion Agropecuaria
(National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension)
NAU   =  National Agrarian University
RDI   =  Regional Development Institutes of the NAU
USAID =  United States Agency for International Development



REPUBLIC OF PERU          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Peru
Beneficiary:          National Agrarian University (NAU)
Loan Amount:          US$17.3 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:        The project would assist the NAU to improve its facil-
ities and the quality of its courses and research activ-
ities and to expand its graduate program. The project
would finance: (i) rehabilitation of the central campus,
which was heavily damaged by a 1974 earthquake; (ii)
instruction and research facilities for four of the five
farms which comprise the NAU's regional development
institutes; (iii) equipment for the central campus and
regional development institutes; (iv) studies abroad at
the graduate level for about 60 NAU professors; and (v)
technical assistance to reorganize and strengthen the
NAU's graduate agricultural economics program. The only
special risk faced by the project is the possibility of
future earthquake damage. To minimize this risk,
antiseismic designs have been adopted and construction
would be closely supervised by engineers experienced in
seismic construction.
Estimated Costs (including about US$1.4 million equivalent in local taxes):
Local     Foreign    Total
------  US$ million ------
A. Rehabilitation/Expansion of Central Campus          13.2         5.9      19.1
B. Regional Development Institutes                      2.4         1.3       3.7
C. Teacher Upgrading                                     -          2.3       2.3
D. Reorganization of Agricultural Economics
Program                                              -          0.2      0.2
E. Project Coordination                                 0.2         0.1       0.3
Base Cost                                         15.8         9.8     25.6
Phys:ical Contingencies                              1.6         1.0       2.6
,Price Contingencies                                 3.8         2.8       6.6
Total Project Cost                                21.2        13.6     34.8
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                            -          0.26     0.26
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                            21.2        13.8     35.1
Tdirs documant hu a rostrcted di tribution tnd may be used by rciponts only in the performzatei.
of their olbcW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be di cbset without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign   Total
------- US$ millions  ---
National Agrarian University                        2.0          -         2.0
Government                                         15.8          -       15.8
Bank                                                3.4        13.9       17.3
Total                                            21.2         13.9      35.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
------------- -    US$ million          ---------------…
Annual                 0.5      2.5      4.5      4.6     3.8      1.1      0.3
Cummulative            0.5      3.0      7.5    12.1    15.9    17.0    17.3
Rate of Return:             Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:       No. 3940b-PE of October 4, 1982
.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$17.3 million to help finance
a higher agricultural education project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The government would transfer the loan's proceeds, on a grant basis,
to the National Agrarian University (NAU).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981 as well as in
July/August 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activ:ity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Public Sector
Management Project President's Report of September 1, 1982 (Report No.
P-3383-PE).



- 2 -
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between
1977 and 1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net
exporter of about 60,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors, and the response has been positive. The Government
strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase
in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 bpd.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period.  Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbani-2
zation process and improved education.  But with declining death rates, popu -
lation has continued to grow at about 2.6 percent p.a. and is currently esti-
mated at about 17 million. The country's urban population is increasing at,'
4.2 percent p.a., and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima
area. Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected
to grow in excess of three percent per year during the next 20 years. Over
the same time frame, it is expected that overall population growth will fall
only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. unless an effective population
control policy is adopted. The Government is conscious of the need to slow
down Peru's population growth rate and is now supporting a family planning
program.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth.  The pattern of asset
ownership in the economy changed drastically through nationalization and a
sweeping land reform, but many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an
excessive cost, and their implementation was inefficient.
8.        Expansionary fiscal and credit policies between 1968 and 1977
produced strong inflationary pressures and widening external gaps. The
current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77, equiv-
alent to nearly nine percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at almost US$8.4
billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to two-thirds of
GDP. In 1977-78 GDP per capita dropped by over six percent, and under- and
unemployment rose from less than 50 percent during the early 1970s, to almost
60 percent of the labor force.
9.        Between 1975 and 1977, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation



- 3 -
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports,
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative
level of US$800 million.
10.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMN  in support of the stabilization program.
11.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
12.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up
the economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion iLn the private and public sectors. These policy changes--together with
a declining domestic market because of the recession--resulted in a major
reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the value
of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about eight percent of output). The
Governiment also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
posit:ive effects on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
13.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of pulblic finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about four months of
imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral
and international sources, thus improving the structure of its external
debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however,
growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Because of a relaxation in fiscal discipline, the
public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level--59 percent.



- 4-
Recent Developments and Outlook
14.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation.  These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing);
a balance of payments with a substantial surplus, which, however, was partly
due to unusually high commodity prices and to the fact that import levels
were depressed and manufacturing exports high owing to the recession; and,
finally, deteriorated income distribution over the past several years
resulting in increased social unrest. This unrest has been manifested in
a growing terrorist movement which, if it continues, may threaten political
stability.
15.       The Government named an economic team committed to economic effi-
ciency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in parti-
cular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
16.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs.  At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
17.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made
progress in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly
reduced and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to
international levels.  The marketing of agricultural products was
liberalized, and public utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular
intervals. Moreover, the Government endeavored to rationalize public
investment and its financing--an effort that was supported by a Bank
sponsored Consultative Group meeting in May 1981.



- 5 -
18.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State--owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compenisation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
persoinel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
19.       In 1981, GDP grew at about four percent.  The balance of payments,
however, deteriorated substantially as a result of declining export prices,
high :interest rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid
expansion of imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$580
million, equivalent to about 2.5 percent of GDP. A major factor in the
deter:ioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit
which reached about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some
progress was achieved in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December
1980-D)ecember 1981 basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it
decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the
openness of the economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in
imports, and--to some extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations.
During 1982, inflation is expected to reach 60 percent (which was also the
average rate during the first five months of the year). The Government is
aware that this level is still too high, however, and is following
restrictive demand management which it expects will result in a further drop
in inflation.
20.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the 1981 deficit
was mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is following a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. The Government also trimmed the
public investment program in line with its investment priorities. The Bank
has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the Peruvian Government on these
issues. Moreover, in June, 1982 the IMF approved an SDR850 million
compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support Peru's stabilization efforts.
In spite of the difficult world economic environment, a slowdown in economic
growth (projected to be about two percent in 1982) and increasing social
tension, the Government is striving to adhere to the agreed-upon program and
to make the necessary adjustments in fiscal management to keep the economy
viable over the medium term.  Peru's total debt outstanding to the IMF as of
June 30, 1982 amounted to SDR776.8 million.
21.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through the medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments



situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance, including local cost financing.
Taking the above factors into account, considering an expected debt service
ratio hovering around 35 percent of exports (which are relatively
diversified) and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
22.       The Bank has approved 51 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,312.5 million, net of cancellations. About 28 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports),
16 percent for agriculture, 25 percent for the energy sector, 14 percent for
mining and industry, about seven percent for education and urban development,
nine percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979 and one percent
for technical assistance.
23.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$661 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit.
Disbursements on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5
million in FY81 and US$75.8 million in FY82. This compares with average
yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strenghening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management and of local capacity to prepare, implement and operate projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has
shifted to more directly productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending
for social sector projects has also grown and will be further stepped up in



-7-
the future. The next operations that would be ready for the Executive
Directors' consideration include projects in rural development, health, and
primary education. As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a
Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government
arrange financing for its public investment program.
25.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.4 percent of Peru's total
public- external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981, and
absorbed about 3 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1981. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
26.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1982 were US$55.8 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$18.9 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30, 1982
is presented in Annex II. In addition, a palm oil and a polymetallic mining
project were recently approved, and a venture capital company is now being
considered.
27.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31,
1981 were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares
of public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
The Agriculture Sector
28.       Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of a
total area of 1,285,000 km2, only about 3.7 million ha or 2.9 percent is
arable and 17 percent is natural pastureland. Additional land could be
brought into production only by expensive new irrigation works or by
investing in infrastructure to open up new areas, mainly in the Ceja de
Selva, the jungle highlands east of the Andes.
29.       The agricultural sector in Peru underwent a major decline during
the 1970s. Severe land and water constraints were in part responsible for
this, but the primary cause of poor performance was negative government
polic;ies.  These included:  (i) an agricultural pricing policy which did not
provide adequate incentives to producers; (ii) imposition of an inefficient
marketing system run by the State; (iii) failure to effectively organize and



- 8 -
manage agrarian reform enterprises; (iv) insufficient credit and the
dismantling of extension and research support services for the sector; (v) a
requirement that food crops be grown in place of non-food export crops (e.g.
cotton); (vi) insecurity of land tenure owing to a far reaching land reform;
(vii) the concentration of public investment in large-scale coastal irriga-
tion projects with long gestation periods; and (viii) failure to support
agriculture sector educational and training institutions, so as to insure
that they had the teaching staffs and equipment necessary to produce
well-trained professionals.
30.       The agrarian reform program, which was enacted in June 1969, had a
negative impact on agricultural production. By February 1980, 11.6 million
ha of land (about 48 percent of the total land in agriculture in Peru) on
about 16,500 farms had been expropriated by the Government under the
program. About 8.9 million ha was distributed to about 400,000 families,
almost a quarter of the country's rural population. The balance of expro-
priated land remains under state control for possible future adjudication,
forestation programs or other public use. Although about eight percent of
distributed land was adjudicated to individual families, most large estates
were distributed intact to various forms of cooperative enterprises. During
the 1970s, the military Government concentrated most of the financial and
manpower resources available to agriculture on the agrarian reform program.
Credit went largely to the cooperatives and the public research and extension
service was dismantled to provide manpower for the reform process. Also,
instability of land tenure caused a fall in investment levels, and expropria-
tion forced many technically and managerially sophisticated farmers to leave
agriculture. These factors, coupled with poor organization and management
and the lack of cooperative spirit in the new agrarian reform enterprises,
were an important cause of declining agricultural production.
31.       The combined results of these negative factors were that food
production increased by only 0.7 percent per annum in the 1970s while popula-
tion increased at an annual rate of 2.9 percent. Nutritional standards
suffered and the country's dependence on imported food increased. Food
imports grew at 20 percent per annum in the 1970s. Furthermore, agricultural
exports fell dramatically. The volume of agricultural exports in 1980 was
only 22 percent of its 1970 level, and in 1980-81 the deficit in the balance
of trade in agricultural commodities totaled about US$300 million.
32.       Since the late 1970s, successive Governments have recognized the
gravity of these problems and taken corrective measures. Consumer price
subsidies borne by farmers have been reduced or eliminated, and the require-
ment that food crops be grown has been eased. Also, the Government has
required improved management of cooperatives as a condition of providing them
with asslstance and credit.  In 1980, an agricultural promotion law was
passed which:  (i) concludes the expropriation process of the a;rari,.n
reform; (ii) provides selective tax incentives to investment; (iii) permits
the private import and export of most agricultural products and inputs; and
(iv) opens up narketing to private participation (although some restrictions
still remain). Furthermore, the Government has reorganized and is
strengthening its research and e-tensior. service with assistance from a
recent Bank loan (Ln. 2150-PE of June 1982) for the National Institute for



Agricultural Research and Extension (INIPA). However, no concrete measures
have yet been taken to reverse the results of past neglect of higher agricul-
tural] education which has led to a deterioration in the technical qualifica-
tions and the managerial capacity of agriculture-related professionals.
33.        The measures taken thus far to stimulate agriculture, together with
the ending of the drought in 1980, have had a significant beneficial impact
on agricultural production. Preliminary figures indicate that agricultural
outpt1t grew by over 12 percent in 1981 and a further five percent increase is
expected in 1982.
Demaind for Higher Agricultural Education Graduates
34.        The availability of high quality professionals trained in
agriculture-related fields will be required if the Government's efforts to
revitalize the sector are to be successful. It is estimated that by 1990, a
total of about 11,000 professionals will be needed to satisfy demand in the
sector. About 7,000 professionals were working in 1980, and only about 1,000
will retire during the 1980s since the workforce is relatively young. The
average annual demand for high-level professionals in the 1980s is,
therefore, expected to be about 500. Approximately 20 percent of this
number, for the more demanding positions in research, extension, public
administration and university teaching, should be professionals with
post--graduate level training. Qualified personnel will be needed in the
following areas:
(i)  Cooperative Farms.  The staff of the 2,000 cooperative farms,
mostly established under the agrarian reform, lack management
capacity and technical expertise in agricultural practices and
marketing. As a result, production has fallen from pre-reform
levels, particularly on the large cotton and sugar coopera-
tives on the coast, and the latter face serious financial
difficulties. These problems, together with Government
pressure to improve (para. 32), have motivated the
cooperatives to seek professional management.
(ii) Private Farms. About 5,000 farms of a size large enough to
fully occupy a professional farmer remain after the completion
of the agrarian reform. With recent changes in agricultural
policy (para. 32), the climate for profitable operation of
these farms is now favorable, but technical expertise is
required to take full advantage of their productive capacity.
(iii) Research. The differences in climate, topography, and hydro-
graphic conditions between Peru and the countries that tradi-
tionally engage in basic research and provide improved agri-
cultural inputs call for a significant increase in the level
of experimentation and adaptation of these inputs to local
conditions.



- 10 -
(iv) Agricultural Extension. The system for transmitting research
results to individual farmers and rural communities was prac-
tically destroyed during the 1970s. Currently, efforts are
underway to rebuild it using the Training and Visit system.
This approach emphasizes regularly scheduled visits by
trained extension workers and the provision of feedback to
researchers. It, therefore, calls for significant numbers of
high level supervisors and subject-matter specialists. In
northern Peru alone, where the Bank-financed agricultural
research and extension project (Ln. 2150-PE) is being ini-
tiated, incremental professional staff required will number
about 150 and demand will grow as this system is implemented
throughout Peru.
(v)  Public Administration.  Retiring Government personnel must be
replaced with highly qualified new entrants, and the qualifi-
cations of existing personnel need to be upgraded through
postgraduate studies, especially in management and agricul-
tural economics.
(vi) Agriculture-Related Activities. Banks extending agricultural
credit, commercial firms selling agricultural inputs, and
firms and organizations involved in marketing require profes-
sionals with technical and economic backgrounds.
(vii) University Teaching. The majority of teachers in agricultural
programs offered by universities need to upgrade their basic
knowledge and research ability, mainly through postgraduate
studies at the masters level.
The Higher Agricultural Education System
35.       Overview.  Peru has 37 universities (25 public and 12 private), 14
of which are located in Lima. Total university enrollment reached 223,000 in
1979. Agricultural programs are offered by 19 universities (all public),
four of which are located in the Lima area. Total enrollment in such
programs was about 20,000 in 1979. Graduate agricultural studies are offered
only by the National Agrarian University (NAU), whose main campus is located
at La Molina outside Lima. About 200 students are currently enrolled in its
graduate program.
36.       During the 1970s, enrollments in university agricultural programs
increased at an annual rate of 15 percent, almost double that of total
university enrollments.  Growth was much slower, although still too high, at
the two best quality institutions, the NAU (7.2 percent p.a.) and the veteri-
nary medicine program at San Marcos University (5.7 percent p.a.). Because
of the high rate of growth in overall enrollment, the total number of
graduates per annum from university level agricultural programs increased
from about 800 in 1978 to about 1,200 in 1981, but qt.alitv declined because
the growth of teaching staff and facilities did not keep ,ace with en- oli-
ment.



- 11 -
37.       The quality and number of teaching staff varies significantly
between universities. The average student/teacher ratio is above 20, with
several universities having ratios as high as 40. The NAU has the best ratio
with 12 students per teacher. Only at the NAU and the Universidad Agraria de
la Selva do more than 20 percent of the teachers hold advanced degrees. The
quality and availability of equipment also varies greatly between programs,
especially with regard to agricultural machinery and laboratory equipment.
The NAU and the veterinary medicine program at San Marcos are among the
better equipped institutions.
38.       Universities have made some important contributions to agricultural
research, with the NAU and the veterinary medicine program at San Marcos by
far thie leaders in this field. At most universities, however, research
programs are weak. As a result, students are deprived of the creative
environment that research activities generate and much of the academic
program is irrelevant to Peruvian problems.
39.       The proliferation of universities offering agricultural programs
and the rapid enrollment growth in these programs together with inadequate
teaching, facilities, research programs and equipment has negatively affected
the quality of graduates and their opportunities for employment. Growth in
undergraduate enrollments and number of graduates has been more than double
that estimated as necessary for the sector. This is not true, however, of
post-graduate studies where the number of high level professionals must be
greatly expanded. One objective of the proposed project is to assist in
this.
40.       The National Agrarian University.  The NAU, which is an autonomous
public institution, was founded in 1901. It currently has an enrollment of
about 3,600 students (including post-graduate students). The NAU provides
instruction in most agriculture-related discipline (e.g., agronomy,
agricultural engineering, animal husbandry, food industries), as well as in
fisheries, forestry and social sciences.
41.       In contrast to most other universities, the NAU has been able to
keep enrollment growth at a relatively low rate and obtain much higher public
funding per student than other agricultural programs. While the NAU has,
thus, maintained an acceptable level of teaching, there has been some decline
in quaLity, as described below, because of a loss of teachers and a lack of
adequate equipment and facilities.
42.       About 100 professors left NAU in the face of the country's economic
and poLitical problems during the 1970s, and the proportion of professors
with advanced degrees fell from 46 percent in 1975 to 40 percent in 1981. As
a result, the present qualifications of the teaching and research staff are
below ithe standards set by the University, particularly for implementing a
planned expansion of the graduate program and developing much needed basic
and applied research activities.
43.       The situation regarding the buildings which house teaching and
research activities at the central campus is even more serious. In 1974, a
severe earthquake destroyed many of the NAU's classroom buildings, teachers'



- 12 -
offices and research facilities and seriously damaged the library. Most of
the buildings still standing had to be evacuated and temporary installations,
still in use today, were put up. Teachers and students have had to use
Lhe6, inadequate accommodations to the detriment of the quality and effec-
tiveness of teaching and research. The principal objective of the proposed
project is to remedy this problem.
44.       The NAU has been able to provide its academic departments and
research programs with some modern equipment through donations by various
international sources and purchases under bilateral government agreements.
This equipment, however, constitutes only a part of that required to fully
meet the needs of the academic and research areas. Also, some equipment
currently available is un- or under-utilized because of lack of appropriate
space for its installation. The proposed project would provide the addi-
tional equipment required by the NAU and facilities to adequately house
equipment.
45.       NAU's undergraduate study program shows some weakness in training
students in the practical application of their knowledge, and is insuffi-
ciently oriented towards the problems of subsistence farmers. Also, the
quality of the undergraduate and graduate level economic programs is unsatis-
factory and the graduate program is strongly oriented towards "pure" research
at the expense of analyzing problems taking into account their socioeconomic
context. The NAU is now taking steps to solve these problems, mainly through
a review and revision of curriculum content, which started in 1981.
Upgrading of the economics program would be supported under the proposed
project. An important approach to making its program more practical is NAU's
plan to utilize five currently operating farms (four donated by the state and
one purchased by NAU) in the three main ecological zones of Peru (Costa,
Sierra, and Selva) as Research Development Institutes (RDIs). These would be
used for teaching last-year undergraduate students in a "real-world"
environment, providing research facilities to NAU professors and graduate
students for basic and applied research, achieving initial multiplication of
improved products and inputs developed by NAU researchers, and providing
extension services to the surrounding professional and farming communities.
Facilities on four of these five farms would be improved under the project.
The NAU is currently developing the other farm with its own resources.
46.       Strategy for Strengthening Higher Agricultural Education.  In the
medium term, the Government's policy is to strengthen the NAU as the only
feasible alternative for providing the high level professionals, including
those with graduate level training, required for the success of efforts to
revitalize the agricultural sector. Aside from the NAU, a few isolated study
areas in other universities are also of acceptable quality. Over the longer
run, the Government should seriously consider building up the quality of two
or three regional universities around these study areas. The benefits to be
obtained from creating an adequate regional network of agricultural faculties
would be relevance in teaching and research obtained from close contact with
the problems of the surrounding communities, and the contribution that a
prestigious university can make to regional development.



- 11 -
37.        The quality and number of teaching staff varies significantly
between universities. The average student/teacher ratio is above 20, with
several universities having ratios as high as 40. The NAU has the best ratio
with 12 students per teacher. Only at the NAU and the Universidad Agraria de
la Selva do more than 20 percent of the teachers hold advanced degrees. The
quality and availability of equipment also varies greatly between programs,
especially with regard to agricultural machinery and laboratory equipment.
The NAU and the veterinary medicine program at San Marcos are among the
better equipped institutions.
38.        Universities have made some important contributions to agricultural
research, with the NAU and the veterinary medicine program at San Marcos by
far the leaders in this field. At most universities, however, research
programs are weak. As a result, students are deprived of the creative
environment that research activities generate and much of the academic
programn is irrelevant to Peruvian problems.
39.        The proliferation of universities offering agricultural programs
and the rapid enrollment growth in these programs together with inadequate
teaching, facilities, research programs and equipment has negatively affected
the quality of graduates and their opportunities for employment. Growth in
undergraduate enrollments and number of graduates has been more than double
that estimated as necessary for the sector. This is not true, however, of
post-graduate studies where the number of high level professionals must be
greatly expanded.  One objective of the proposed project is to assist in
this.
40.        The National Agrarian University.  The NAU, which is an autonomous
public institution, was founded in 1901. It currently has an enrollment of
about 3,600 students (including post-graduate students). The NAU provides
instruction in most agriculture-related discipline (e.g., agronomy,
agricultural engineering, animal husbandry, food industries), as well as in
fisherLes, forestry and social sciences.
41.        In contrast to most other universities, the NAU has been able to
keep enrollment growth at a relatively low rate and obtain much higher public
funding per student than other agricultural programs. While the NAU has,
thus, maintained an acceptable level of teaching, there has been some decline
in quaLity, as described below, because of a loss of teachers and a lack of
adequate equipment and facilities.
42.        About 100 professors left NAU in the face of the country's economic
and poLitical problems during the 1970s, and the proportion of professors
with advanced degrees fell from 46 percent in 1975 to 40 percent in 1981. As
a resuLt, the present qualifications of the teaching and research staff are
below the standards set by the University, particularly for implementing a
planned expansion of the graduate program and developing much needed basic
and applied research activities.
43.        The situation regarding the buildings which house teaching and
research activities at the central campus is even more serious.  In 1974, a
severe earthquake destroyed many of the NAU's classroom buildings, teachers'



- 12 -
offices and research facilities and seriously damaged the library. Most of
the buildings still standing had to be evacuated and temporary installations,
still in use today, were put up. Teachers and students have had to use
,.,e±< iiddequate accommodations to the detriment of the quality and effec-
tiveness of teaching and research.  The principal objective of the proposed
project is to remedy this problem.
44.       The NAU has been able to provide its academic departments and
research programs with some modern equipment through donations by various
international sources and purchases under bilateral government agreements.
This equipment, however, constitutes only a part of that required to fully
meet the needs of the academic and research areas. Also, some equipment
currently available is un- or under-utilized because of lack of appropriate
space for its installation. The proposed project would provide the addi-
tional equipment required by the NAU and facilities to adequately house
equipment.
45.       NAU's undergraduate study program shows some weakness in training
students in the practical application of their knowledge, and is insuffi-
ciently oriented towards the problems of subsistence farmers. Also, the
quality of the undergraduate and graduate level economic programs is unsatis-
factory and the graduate program is strongly oriented towards "pure" research
at the expense of analyzing problems taking into account their socioeconomic
context. The NAU is now taking steps to solve these problems, mainly through
a review and revision of curriculum content, which started in 1981.
Upgrading of the economics program would be supported under the proposed
project. An important approach to making its program more practical is NAU's
plan to utilize five currently operating farms (four donated by the state and
one purchased by NAU) in the three main ecological zones of Peru (Costa,
Sierra, and Selva) as Research Development Institutes (RDIs). These would be
used for teaching last-year undergraduate students in a "real-world"
environment, providing research facilities to NAU professors and graduate
students for basic and applied research, achieving initial multiplication of
improved products and inputs developed by NAU researchers, and providing
extension services to the surrounding professional and farming communities.
Facilities on four of these five farms would be improved under the project.
The NAU is currently developing the other farm with its own resources.
46.       Strategy for Strengthening Higher Agricultural Education.  In the
medium term, the Government's policy is to strengthen the NAU as the only
feasible alternative for providing the high level professionals, including
those with graduate level training, required for the success of efforts to
revitalize the agricultural sector. Aside from the NAU, a few isolated study
areas in other universities are also of acceptable quality.  Over the longer
run, the Government should seriously consider building up the quality of two
or three regional universities around these study areas.  The benefits to be
obtained from creating an adequate regional network of agricultural faculties
would be relevance in teaching and research obtained from close contact with
the problems of the surrounding communities, and the contribution that a
prestigious university can make to regional development.



- 13 -
Previous Bank Operations
47.       In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 13 loans to Peru totalling US$219 million. A number of performance
audits have been done for these projects and point out deficiencies related
to the lack of trained professionals. The Performance Audit Report (Sec
M81-465 of June 2, 1981) for the fifth agricultural credit project (Ln.
933-PE of 1973) concluded that the project's rate of return exceeded that
estimated in the appraisal report (30 percent vs. 26 percent). It noted,
however, that the project suffered from the deterioration of the research and
extension services in the 1970s. Two loans (Loans 114-PE of 1955 and 418-PE
of 1965), totalling US$24.4 million, financed irrigation works and land
settlemient in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basin. The
Performance Audit Report (SecM 78-43 of January 18, 1978) for the San Lorenzo
project concluded that the project achieved its basic goals of increasing
production and income but would have been more successful with better manage-
ment and agricultural support services. The recently approved US$40.6
million Agricultural Research and Extension Loan (Ln. 2150-PE of June 1982)
is designed to address these shortcomings by helping to rebuild Peru's
research and extension services. In addition, the project recommended in
this report would complement this operation by strengthening the NAU--the
main source of high quality agricultural professionals.
48.       The Bank's participation in Peru's education sector has been
limited so far to one loan (949-PE of FY74 for US$24.0 million) to finance
the construction of 12 post secondary and 26 basic education centers,
institutions considered as the principal building blocks of the 1972 educa-
tion reform. The project has suffered significant delays (see Annex II for
more detailed information) but was completed in June 1982, except for
preparaLtion activities for a second education project, which are expected to
be finished early next year.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.     This project was identified by the Bank in July 1981.  It had been
prepared with financial assistance from IDB. Appraisal took place in
March/April 1982. The appraisal mission's report, entitled "PERU - Staff
Appraisal Report of a Higher Agricultural Education Project" (No. 3940b-PE
dated October 4, 1982), is being distributed separately. Annex III contains
a supplementary project data sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington on
September 15-16, 1982. The Peruvian delegation was headed by Mr. Henry
Harman, Director of Public Credit of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Commerce.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The project aims at increasing the contribution of NAU's study
programs and research activities to current efforts to accelerate the devel-
opment of Peru's agricultural sector by improving the NAU's facilities and
quality of instruction. The project would consist of:



- 14 -
(a) the repair, rehabilitation and expansion of teaching and
research facilities at the main NAU campus near Lima;
(b) the construction and equipping of facilities on four farms in
various regions of Peru, which comprise part of NAU's Regional
Development Institute system;
(c) studies abroad for about 20 NAU teachers for Ph.D degrees, 40
NAU teachers for M.Sc. degrees and short upgrading courses for
60 teachers;
(d) about two staff years of technical assistance services to
upgrade NAU's agricultural economics department; and
(e) project coordination activities.
51.       Rehabilitation/Expansion of Central Campus.  This component would
account for about 75 percent of project costs. Teaching and research facil-
ities at the La Molina campus, which were heavily damaged by the 1974 earth-
quake, would be rebuilt, repaired and/or expanded according to a master plan
prepared by the NAU. This plan is satisfactory to the Bank. Administration
buildings, although somewhat damaged, are adequate and would not be improved
under the project. Upon completion of the proposed project, the rehabili-
tated campus would have teaching facilities for about 4,500 undergraduate and
500 graduate students as compared with enrollments of 3,400 and 200, respec-
tively, in 1981. This would allow room for reasonable growth in enrollment
through the mid-1990s. In order to ensure that academic quality is
maintained while meeting sector demand for well-trained professionals, the
NAU would limit growth in undergraduate enrollments during the period of
project execution (between 1982 and 1988) to an average rate per annum not
exceeding two percent, taking as basis the enrollments during 1981 (Section
2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). Graduate enrollments would, however,
grow more rapidly--by eight percent p.a.--to meet the projected demand for
professionals with high-level qualifications in managerial, teaching,
research, and supervisory technical positions. Facilities would also be
provided for all research areas, with the exception of cereals and milk and
feedstuff processing, which are adequate at present.
52.       Equipment and furniture for both teaching and research areas would
be included in the project as would internal roads, landscaping and a sewer-
age network. The library would also be enriched with additional books,
periodicals and necessary equipment. Equipment included in the project would
be additional to expected donations from bilateral sources and to Government
commitments to equip NAU through bilateral purchase agreements. The value of
equipment from these sources is estimated at about US$2 million.
53.       Facilities for Research and Instruction in NAU's Regional Develop-
ment Institutes. This component would represent about 14 percent of total
project cost. It would include buildings and equipment in four of the five
farms which comprise the NAU's RDIs, and which will provide field teaching



- 15 -
and research facilities (see para 45). Undergraduates included in the RDI
program would spend two months each in the RDIs located in the Costa, the
Sierra, and the Selva, for a total of six months before graduation. Instruc-
tion in the RDIs would be offered on the basis of existing curricula, but it
is expected that curricula will be eventually modified to incorporate experi-
ence gained under the new program.
54.       The bulk of physical investment would take place at the Jauja
(Sierra) and Satipo (Selva) RDIs, to provide adequate living facilities for
the participants. The planned site for the Costa (at Canete close to Lima)
would receive more limited investment, since students would be bused daily
from Lima to Canete.  Investment would also be modest at the Tarapoto RDI
(Selva) since it is intended to be used mainly for research, rather than as a
resident instruction facility. The operating expenses of the RDIs are
expected to be covered by the net income from the sale of improved products
grown on the farms. The functioning of the Institutes would not, therefore,
add to NAU's recurrent costs.
55.       Teacher Upgrading.  This component would represent about nine per-
cent of total project cost. It would consist of an accelerated program of
teacher upgrading in order to offset the loss of teachers/researchers during
the 1970s. The program would finance studies abroad for about 20 NAU
teachers for Ph.D. degrees and about 40 for M.Sc. degrees. Graduates of the
program would be obligated, under current regulations, to remain in NAU for a
period at least twice as long as their studies. The NAU would select candi-
dates for participation in this program in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).  The
criteria which have been agreed upon are whether the candidates' proposed
course of study is in a subject area: (i) where there is a planned expansion
of post-graduate studies (only teachers with M.Sc. and/or Ph.D. degrees teach
graduate courses); (ii) where there is a need to fill vacancies in depart-
ments that have suffered losses of personnel; or (iii) which is a priority
research area for NAU.
56.       The proposed program is additional to ongoing studies under various
bilateral agreements. When teachers under all programs have finished their
studies, about 30 percent of NAU's projected teaching staff would have M.Sc.
degrees and 18 percent Ph.D. degrees. These percentages correspond fairly
closely to the distribution of staff qualifications that NAU has tradition-
ally sought on the basis of analyses of functional needs for teachers and
researchers at various levels of responsibility and seniority. Since current
regulations obligate staff on campus to take over the teaching and research
load of colleagues away on scholarship programs, the proposed upgrading
program does not imply an increase in NAU's operating budget while the train-
ing program is underway. At the peak of this program, about 15 percent of
NAU's teachers would be abroad for training.  This is less than in past
periods of intensive training activity and, based on such experience, it is
expected that the NAU would continue to function effectively during the
training program.



- 16 
57.       Improvement of the Agricultural Economics_Program,  This component
would absorb about one percent of project cost. The services of one or two
high level specialists would be contracted for about 24 staff-months to
reougaiaize (in collaboration with NAU authorities) the graduate agricultural
economics program. These services are estimated to cost US$8,000 per
staff-month (including travel and subsistence). The objective of this compo-
nent is to increase the practical relevance of the program and improve the
capacity of participants to undertake applied economic research. Reorganiza-
tion would involve redesigning (where necessary) the study program, teacher
upgrading through postgraduate studies, and (if necessary) hiring new
personnel. Reports and recommendations of the specialist(s) would be
furnished for comment to the Bank not later than 30 days after their receipt                    9
by NAU and the NAU would exchange views with the Bank on these recommenda-
tions (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement). If the specialist(s) so
recommends, a foreign university would be contracted to provide support for
the economics and planning department in the areas of curriculum design,
preparation of course bibliographies and short visits to the foreign
university by NAU personnel.
58.       Project Coordination.  This would represent about one percent of
project costs and would consist of NAU's administrative expenses in executing
the project (e.g. project coordinator's office, travel).
Project Costs and Financing
59.       Total project cost (including US$1.4 million equivalent in taxes)
is estimated at about US$34.8 million equivalent, of which US$13.6 million or
39 percent represents foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies are
estimated at ten percent of base costs. Although the main campus of the NAU
is in a seismic area, the design of the facilities takes this into account,
and careful construction supervision should largely eliminate the risk.
Higher physical contingencies are, therefore, not required. Price contin-
gencies are estimated at approximately eight percent in 1982 and 1983, seven
and a half percent in 1984, seven percent in 1985 and 1986, and six percent
in 1987 and 1988. Local cost contingencies have been calculated in US dollar
equivalents on the assumption that variations in the exchange rate would
compensate for the difference between local and international inflation.
Estimates for construction costs are based on final designs, construction
specifications agreed upon with a consulting firm contracted by NAU, and
price estimates as of end-August 1982. Furniture costs are derived from
prices at the local market, and equipment costs from price catalogs of
foreign manufacturers. Teacher training costs are placed at US$43,000 for
Ph.D. and US$29,000 for M.Sc. students.
60.       Total financing required for the project is US$35.1 million,
including a US$255,665 front-end fee. The proposed Bank loan of US$17.3 mil-
lion would cover about 50 percent of project costs, including all foreign
costs and US$3.4 million in local costs. It would also cover the capitalized
front-end fee. The proposed Bank financing of local costs is justified by:
(i) the importance of the project in assuring the supply of the highly
trained manpower that will be required to carry out the Government's develop-
ment strategy for the agricultural sector; and (ii) the current fiscal and



- 17 -
balance-of-payments difficulties faced by Peru.  The balance of local costs
would be financed by the Government (US$15.8 million equivalent) and the NAU
(US$2 million equivalent). To facilitate project execution, up to US$250,000
of retroactive financing be made available for expenditures incurred after
Apri:L 1, 1982 for the design of civil works, teacher upgrading, expert
serviices, and project coordination.
Project Execution
t
61.       The carrying out of the project would be the responsibility of the
NAU, which has appointed as project coordinator a staff member whose qualifi-
cations are acceptable to the Bank.  The coordinator, who would report
directly to the NAU's Rector, has been freed from his academic duties in
order to work full time on project implementation. The NAU would continue to
employ a project coordinator whose qualifications, experience and terms and
condiLtions of employment were satisfactory to the Bank throughout the period
of project execution (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
62.       NAU's academic departments (each in its field) would provide
technical expertise for (i) preparing detailed furniture and equipment lists
and specifications; (ii) the review and analysis of the bids for procurement;
and (iii) supervision of delivery and installation of furniture and equip-
ment. The academic departments would also be responsible for selecting
candidates for the teacher upgrading program.
63.       NAU's Directorate of Accounting and Finance, operating under the
authority of the NAU's tenders committee, would be responsible for the
practical details of procurement of civil works, goods and equipment and for
project accounting. This Directorate has broad experience in the procurement
of goods and equipment and is satisfactorily staffed for purposes of handling
its proposed project responsibilities. A consulting firm, to be contracted
by NAU, would review and analyze the bids for construction, and would super-
vise the construction of new facilities, and the remodeling and repair of
existing ones.  All consultants and experts employed under the project would
possess qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and be hired
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). The project is expected to be executed over a period of
six years (July 1982 - June 1988). Although the construction work at the
main NAU campus is not complex, it must be phased to avoid interrupting the
normal operations of the university, and thus will require a longer than
normal time to complete.
64.       The NAU's budget from the Government would have to be increased to
cover the additional recurrent costs that would be generated by the project.
These are on the order of US$1.9 million p.a. at 1981 prices, or about 20
percent of NAU's 1981 operational budget. Four fifths of the costs of
operating the RDIs (about US$0.5 million p.a.) are not included in the above
figure as they are expected, conservatively, to be covered by the RDI's own
incotae.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Civil works contracts are expected to total about US$23 million
equivalent. Contracts for new buildings valued below US$1 million would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) under procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank and do not preclude foreign firms from
participating in the bidding.  Contracts estimated to exceed US$1 million
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB). The NAU would make the maximum use of packaging of civil works
contracts. On this basis, about US$15 million is expected to be procured
through ICB and US$8 million through LCB. Repairs and remodeling would be
done under force account by the NAU because classes would be operating and
equipment is contained in these buildings, and great care would thus be
required in construction work. Disbursements for repairs and remodeling
would be done against statements of expenditures submitted by NAU.
66.       Furniture and equipment in the amount of US$4.4 million would be
procured mainly through ICB. Equipment which cannot be grouped into packages
exceeding US$200,000 would be procured through LCB up to a total of
US$500,000. Equipment which cannot be grouped into packages exceeding
US$20,000 would be procured through local shopping up to a total of
US$200,000. Under these procedures, about 85 percent of the equipment would
be procured through ICB, ten percent through LCB, and five percent through
local shopping. In comparing local and foreign bids, local manufacturers
would be given a margin of preference equal to the prevailing duty rate or 15
percent of CIF costs of imported goods, whichever were lower. Manufacturers
from countries of the Cartagena Agreement (or any other regional trade group
satisfactory to the Bank, of which Peru is a member) other than Peru would be
given a margin of preference over other foreign manufacturers equal to the
difference in import duties charged by Peru, or 15 percent of CIF costs of
imported goods, whichever is lower.
67.       Disbursements for eligible expenditures under the Bank loan would
be made against: (i) 35 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported furniture and
equipment, and 80 percent of total expenditures for goods purchased locally;
(iii) 100 percent of total expenditures for training abroad and technical
assistance; (iv) 40 percent of expenditures for project coordination and
100 percent of expenditures for related travel abroad; and (v) 100 percent
of the Bank's front-end fee.
68.       Central Government agencies in Peru have experienced difficulty in
executing the civil works components of Bank financed projects in the past
because they sometimes have not had the funds needed to pay contractors
promptly while waiting to be reimbursed by the Bank. In order to permit more
rapid provision of funds, the Borrower would establish, on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, a dollar-denominated special account in the
Banco de la Nacion into which funds from the proposed Bank loan would be
advanced (Section 2.02(b) through (f) of the draft Loan Agreement). This
account would consist of an estimated three months of Bank disbursements for
civil works at any time (about US$400,000). The Government, for its part,
would, by June 30, 1983, establish a revolving fund--in the Banco de la
Nacion and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank--which would be



- 19 -
used for payments to the civil works contractors from counterpart funds.
This revolving fund would consist of not less than two months payment needs
and would be replenished by the Government with its counterpart funds and
withdrawals from the Bank-funded special account each time a payment is made
(Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank's initial deposit in
the special fund would not be made until the revolving fund was established
and the Government's initial deposit made (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
69.       The ultimate objective of the project would be to raise
productivity and incomes in the critical agriculture sector by providing
higb quality university trained professionals to improve public sector
programs, the management of individual farms, cooperatives, farm-related
enterprises, and the agricultural programs of Peruvian universities. This
would be accomplished by strengthening the NAU, which has the best Peruvian
university level agricultural programs, in part by increasing the proportion
of professors with graduate degrees from 40 to 48 percent. Emphasis would be
given to expanding the graduate department where enrollments would increase
from 200 to 500. The agricultural economics program would also be improved
and given a more practical approach to provide students with a solid
foundation for the application of their specialties. Research activities at
NAU would be supported through the RDIs to expand programs for the
multiplication and dissemination of improved products and to support
extension services in the areas where the RDIs operate.
70.       A possible risk for the project would be a strong earthquake caus-
ing heavy damage to project facilities, as happened in 1974. To minimize
this risk: (a) a structural engineer has reviewed the designs for buildings
in the central campus and his recommendations are being incorporated in the
plans; (b) supervision missions would include at appropriate times a struc-
tural engineer rather than an architect; and (c) supervision of civil works
construction would be done by highly qualified professionals experienced in
anti-seismic construction.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru, the Banco de
la Nacion (which, under Peruvian law, must be a party to all agreements
providing for external loans to the Central Government) and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement between the NAU and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are referred to in the text and
listed in Section III of Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 19, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-21 -                                                   ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page  1  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE' AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
ONP PER CAPITA (US$)                   290.0        470.0     930.0                    1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       417.3        662.7     716.1                    1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0        13461.0   17379.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3           57.4      67.4                      65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         27.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           48.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. XM.                          7.9         10.5      13.2                      35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       33.3         45.0      55.5                      92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.6        44.3       42.9                      39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         51.7      53.8                      56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.4          3.9       3.5                       4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.8       2.6                       2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                5.1          4.9       4.2                       3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.5         41.5      35.9                      31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0         14.8      10.9                       8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3          3.0       2.4                       2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0       102.0       77.0                     110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     98.3        97.2       97.5/c                   108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.0         60.1      59.2i/c                   66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0        25.1       24.07T                    34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       37.8         20.2       9.5                       5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.4           53.1      58.1                      64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            162.9        119.7      87.7                      64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               14.6         35.0      48.3                      65.6
URBAN                               30.2         58.0      60.0                      78.9
RURAL                                0.8          8.0      25.0                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         36.0      34.0                      59.3
URBAN                                 ..         52.0      51.0                      75.3
RURAL                                 ..         16.0         ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2011.7       1904.9    1532.4/c                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2205.0/d    1000.5      676.1/c                  1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              425.1        469.6     538.3/c                   477.4                      286.8
URBAN                              273.8/e      524.9     426.47T                   679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..      3055.2    5705.2/c                   1903.4
E                       ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         19.0       23.0/c                   27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                                4.8          4.97        ..
RURAL                                4.9          4.67        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                                2.0          1.7/f       ..
RURAL                                2.7          2.47        ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               26.0         32.0/f       ..
URBAN                               50.7         54.3/f      ..
RURAL                                4.2          2.77        ..l



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TA'LE 3A
PER-'M1TAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA91S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  =
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCtME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        103.0     112.0                    104.3                      102.4
MALE                  95.0       111.0      115.0/c                  106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                71.0        96.0      i08.d7c                  103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 15.0         30.0      50.0/c                   41.3                       60.2
MALE                  18.0        34.0       53.07-                   40.4                      66.4
FEKALE                13.0        26.0       46.07;                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 19.9           17.1      18.3/c                    33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.6         35.5      40.2                     29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                          12.3         17.3      29.2                     16.7                       22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         72.5/f    79.7                      79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTIOX
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.8         17.1      18.6/c                   42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        108.0        135.1     147.5                    270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2         29.3      50.2                    107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        123.3      51.4/c                   63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.4            ..         ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3186.8       3891.8    5149.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.2         20.8      23.2                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.5         48.0      40.0                     31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.6         18.4      18.5                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.3         28.9      29.6                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 49.6         45.8      45.5                      50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               13.2         12.0      13.7                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.7       1.6                       1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0l'
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.47ij       61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.:           1.97        .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0Zi         7.07?
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     235.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..     18o.07                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     293.0/c                  518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     200.d7                   371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      49.0/c
RURAL                                ' 
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                            ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICSTORS                                                           Page    3   of   5
Mot-s:  Altheagh the data are drawn ire. source  generally judged the -ot autheritative and reliable, it thoald aloe be noted that they  -sy not be inter-
et Lanlly caparable because of the lack of atandardleod defititlste and c-acept. coed by different carntrien it ccllectltg tht data.  The data are, non.-
thameset, usefal to describe ardets of sa-gitade, indicate trendn, and charactertee ceetnin mJajc differences betwee cuaatries.
The referettn groups are (1) the nm  country gracp of the subject country and (2) a country grcp with tcotnhat higher  average i-cate  than  the  acoatry genpy
of the subjact ceuntry (encept far  'High laer   Oil tgportert" grup ehare "Middle Inact  North Airiaa and Middle atat" is chasen becacaea If atroger
nacia-caltcral aEfititias).  In the refetrance garo   data tie averages are population veighted arithbetia nloas far each iMdL icatr cad sheun only ohec
mejerity af tie ch untries inc  genep has data for that indicatar.  linen the coeanage of cacnteies emng tie indicators depends at tie availability cf data
cad is not  unicce. canttan  sct he exercined in relatiag averages at ocn tndlcetatte  oanhe_.  Thte aneratgo  ace enly cuseu in Icomearin  city valet cf
one indicator at a time    a ong the cacasf L aad reference graups.
AREA (thausand sq.ki.)                                                                       Pneulatcon per Masrise1 Bed - carat, crbat, and rcral - eoeuiatien (total,
TeItal - fatal actrfe area c-prioing land arne and inland waters; 1979 data.                 arban, atd rural) dividad by their ranpactile ccnhMr cf honpital beds
A8riIltal - Eitimate of agricultoral arse used teme..ar.ly at poamanmetly                    available in eubldi dad private general med aenetalited haspital and an-
for armpe, pa.tures, kcaket md kitchen gardets or to lie falles; 1979 data.                habilitatian canteen.  Hospittls are e      dtai Pbmi icad  ehrpanently scatted
GNP ant CAPIIDA galS) - GdP eer ceelte esacimetes at cacreat mcket erices, cal-                dbialetaston ace eatinclu    itaded. l Ih titalt, hamenpr. include health
eHlaced by same ceraico  thod an Weld Ecnk Atlas (19)8-80 hauls); 19f0,                      and tedical centers eat eermanently staffed hy a physician (but by a
1)70, and 1980 data,                                                                         mledical a.tistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) whicbh  ffer in-patientacamn-
ENEcttY CONgeMPTION PER CAPITA - Annal c       pnscoetian of c_ntrcial energy (coal              ticn and p-ccid ac  lhpitcildu i-9detIudi  erlinaiellgencral hasettala,
asd lignite, pettale-e, naturel gan cod hydrn-, nuclear and geothert.l eiea-                 end erura  hnseitcls, iocal at raa  haupitala tad medical atd naternity
trietoy) in kilageans at acal equivalent per caaita; 19hO, 1970, and 1979                    centers.  Specialized hoepitals ear iteldad only wader total.
data.                                                                                      Adnaiastana per Haseital Bad - Total aceber Pt adei-nieno  te or diochargas
FOPIhATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                frtm hoseitals  divided hy the camber af beds.
Traitt enp2latien, Mid-Yeat (theusands) - Au af July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1980             HOUSINC
data.                                                                                    Average Size af Hnaonbald (pescans per huanebald) - natal, urbat, and rueal-
IraL  eelain  eaP n           tfoctal) -ttca  ureocctl  ccalc                                A hi.asehald anae. i  at afnctidIiduals abe nihr  living qatr
ditte t dopultinio tan  aPRti- orbac areas my affttt catahbility af data                   ad theird twale mneaI.  An boardt at ladgc nay tr sy cat bh inL uded in
ameug countries; 1960. 1970, and 1980 data.                                                the hausehold frc  stetistical eureoses.
Peaalacias erejectints                                                                     Average aster at ptaso  car race- tocal, urban, aed rutal - averaga nun-
Pnpulatinn in year 2000 - Current popelacian  projectians are based en 1980               bart ep etrsns per raeo in all crbae. and rcral occyp-ed convencional
intal populatian by age end sex and tbeir tprtality and fertility rates,                dwellings, raesctivelc.  3eollingsrxclde nan-pertnact scructures and
erajectian earaterees for  e:ratLity rates ceelpie of three levels lasiu-               nacdceped  earns.
ing life e-pecta-cy at biath increasing with cI.ncry's per capita  anna               Atceso ta 8lectricity (percent of dwellings) - total, utean, and rural -
levl, and resale life nnpaccwacy stabilizing at 77.5 years.  The para-                  Carvnttional dwtllings with electricity  in living quatarrs en peractage
ectoro cetrtiLlynataula  hava chree levela asau ing decline in                         nf aural, utbta, :nd rclat dwelllngasrspectively,
terclllry eccnrding ta macme level end easr taily planting peroatce.
Eacb cauncry in  eth  assigned ate of thesa  nice  -nebinations of _ertalicy        HDUCATION
and fercility trends far peajoation purcpose.                                         Adjunted Enrallmetr  eani-
Statinnary population-lI  a stairanary populaion there is wa gtaoth since                 Peimary schaol - tocal. male and femele-Gros caret. tsala nnd finale
the birch  arnt is aqual tc the death eats, and elsa the age structure re-                 eaenllnt at atl ages at the primtry level at eercantages cf renpeatir
aints canstant.  This is achieved only after fertility rates dealine to                    pritary sahoel-age pepulatios; aertly inaluden children  aged 6-11
the replecemear level at nnit etr reeraduacten  rate, when each geteration                 years but edjustad for different lengthc  of peimary educatian; far
of eamen raplaces irselt enactly.  The sateonary pecularien sine was                       counties with Iuniretal education entall"enc me7 enceed liO perceat
estimated an she basin   tse prejecced characteriscsli   cI the enentetc                   since -toe pupils are  helpv ar a-ovn thbe ofiaial schnol age.
I the year 2000, and the ernt of drcline of fertiloty rate tn replace-                  Saccdary schol - total, sale end female - C.spyned as abew; secordery
ro .t levl.                                                                                educactio  requiresat least font years cf apperovd primary instructien;
Year statinar.y pepulactin in reached - The year vbae  statintary pepeuelati                 provideo general, v-catinual, or ceacher traling instructions for pupils
siee will be reacbed.                                                                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; cnrresepndence  cur.ses are generally
Populatinn lee iry                                                                            nexluded.
yet cc. bn. - Mid-year populartio  pee square kiletsrtr (100 h.ctares.) of               V-ctional enrnilltmc  (pernenr cf necondary) - Vccacicnal inscitcui.o.
r-tal area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                   incIude technical, induosrial, or otber erearPEn which operate independ-
Per nq. ta. agricilturel land - Cemputad asabove for agriultural land                     sntly or as departments of seacndary institutionn.
nly; 1960, 1970 cud 1979 dsta.                                                         Pepil-teacher ratio - primtry, end secondary - Total studects enrelled in
ecalatien Ann Stracauee (enrcant) - Children (0-14 years), vorkiug-age (15-                  eriensry and seinndary levels divided by -n-bers of aeachers in the
54 yearn), and recited (65 years and ever) at perceacages ci mid-year  peec-               crresaponding levels.
latn; 1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                         Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literete adults (able ct read and write)
Popularion S9twh 7ROe  (paercen) - ttnal - Adncal grocth rates at total mid-                 :a percentage at  ntetl adult popalatinn aged 15 yearn nd oer.
year pepelasinn far 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-80.
Pepelatio  lenC th R-te (percent) - urban - Annual grocth rates of urban p.pc-           CONSUMPTION
letions far 1950460, 1960-70, and 1970-50.                                              Pansengee fern (pee chounand pecelaciat) - P:s:enger cars cempeise mercc
Crude Birth Sate (war thaus:nd) - Annual live birtbh per thou:and af mid-year                carnneating leos then eight persona; eatludes ambulances, hearses and
populatiot; 1960. 1970, and 1980 data.                                                     military vbiletx.
Crude Death Rate (per thou.and) - Anneal deatha per thousand  of mid-year                  gadin Receivers (par thbnnaud population) - All types of rece-iers ftr radio
opnul:tins; 1960. 19)0, end l9hIO daca.                                                   bhvcdcasa c to  enneir pyblic pe  tho.nai cd ofruclaclcn; nuclude: wa-
Crass terrdncien  ate- Aver-ge ae.bsr nf danghters a e-e will bear in                        licensed receirver  is c          ancries end in years when registriatio  of radio
see nermal reprodtctive period if she raperiena.e prsenet age-speaific ftr-               setu was in effeat; data for ceant years say not be c..parable sita
eility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970. and 1980.                  sane countiris a8boih.ed licen.ing.
Fa,inly Plening-Aceprs,  J,   Annu  (sh. d)           nal    br  ofaccecors                n   cevr  (per chonsad population) - T            receivers for broadacat t
aIf birth-control detine under suseices of naciceal nf_ily planning peageam.               general public per tbousned pcpulation; e           -c..des uslicanued T7 receivers
Femity Planying- Uers (percent of maried               Paecectag  ci mrried                  icncriet and in yearn aher ragisteatina  pI yT  sets  aes in effecn.
'wam ef child-bearing age (15-44 yearn) she une birth--cotrol  devices te                Newsaape Circulation  (per chousand population) - Sh-bs the average cir-
nIl s-aried  no-n  in name :eg  group.                                                     calacict nf "daily general int-e-s  newsp:per", defined as a periodical
epubliacatin  deveed primarily to recording general ans.  It is c-n:idered
FOOD AND NIfiITlION                                                                            Inh  "daily" LIt iePpearn at lar  et ie  an_nk.
IcIIe  of end Productlon per Capita (1969-71-100) - Inde- of per capita annual             Cinema Annnal Attendance per Capita per YTar - Basnd an the  nobin  of
prodnation af all fead cotnadities.  Prnductien excludes need and feed and                 tclkets sold during the year, including admsssicc to delve-it cinetas
is on calender year bais.   Cceasdit-ccver prilary gBods (e.g. sugarcane                   and  ebhila units.
inttead of nugar) which are edible and c-taisnnctrients (e.g. ciffee end
eea ae e.c.laded).  Aggregace prcduacien at each ..unrty is based en                  LABOR FOPCE
catietal arerage prodncer peAce weights; 1961-65. 1970, end 1980 data.                  Total Labor Force (thensands) - Ecanomically accive pe.nns.. iscluding
Pee capita supply of calar-es  (percent of reqniramenta) - Cespuced free                     acted forces and cerplayed but escluding h.u.e..ves, scudents, etc
eneegy equivalent at  nes fend suyplies  available in country per aapita                   coverign papulatinn at all ages.  DeDfinitians iP in csics catries ate
per day.  Available  unpp ies L nspeise d-estic production, inperts less                  no cotarable; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
onperis, aad changes in stel,  Nlet supplien maclude anital feed, seeds,                   Female (percant) - Feaale labor farce au percentage of canal labor torte.
luantities used in feed precessing, and leases in discributlon.  Require-                 Aricultfre (perceoc) - Lahor force in feroing. forestry. hunting and
_m were entimaced by FAO b.a.d ot physiological needo for cortal acti-                       fishing en percentage of total labr f-cea; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
city and health consideringegnironse..-l  oeperature,. body weights, age                   Induatry (percent) - Laboc forty in  ining, conocructi-t, manufactuling
rnd sea disribution of ypoplatlio.. and aliceing 10  percent for caste at                    and electicity, octet and gta us percentage of tota  l:abor frce;
heoueheld level; 1961-b). 1970 and 1977 data.                                               1960. 1970 and l980 data.
Pec capita supply of prtee in)gceea per day) - Protein content PI per capit:               earticipation Note (parent) - ttal, mIe. and fesale - Participation at
cer supply atfend per day.  Dec supply of food is defined as abova.  Re-                  eativity rates arae copud en t    tol, male, and f-nala labor forcean
*nireeten  foe all cauncties established by USDA provide fir -ni-uc                        pr_centag_n of total   ale and female population nf all aten respectivly;
all"a.ancs .of hI Eama o  toen  ypntein pen day and 20 SEams cf animal and                 1960, 1970, -ad 1980 data.  These alr  hated on ILO.s p-rticlipainn rates
pulse proteln, of vhiah 10 gcsa shoeld be anital  prnteic.  Tbesensand-                    rflecting ege-sss struccere of the pyonlatien, and long tim  tread.  A
.:rdn ars leone then tcace of 75 glase of totel pr           23ein cud 23 grass  oficeacitares can froscetional souraes.
nital proesin an an averaga for the aotld, pr_posed by FAD in thn Third                  Eon,sI DIependency Ratio - Ratin of pepnlotian undst 15 and 65 and over
lerd FoPd lurvey; 1961%6), 1970 and 1977 deta.                                            tr tsh  total labor force.
Per capica prein usuply frot animal and pulse - Proetie nuppIy oft fed de-
rivd from animals wad pulses in grato per day; 1961-65, 1970 cad 1977 data.           INCOME DISTRlIgTION
ChJ.ld (ages 1-A) Death  ate (pear thausand) - Annual deatho per theusand in               Percencene of erivats  canma (both in cesh and kind) - Rtceivd by riehest
age gecue 1-4 yea ts. c children in this age grnup, for meat developing cane-              5 percent. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percenc, end p--resr 40 precent
cries data derived teem life table-; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.                             cf houshehlds.
HRAL7'H                                                                                    POVERtTT yARTC ROtiPS
*                            Life  npeectancy at Hirth (yearn) - Average an bre of years of life remainung              The following esrimacee are very apprrnima.e .e...e. ofi p..erty levels.
ct birth; 1960, 1970 and I9di data,                                                        and sheald be interpieced with cnasiderable ceauion.
Iniant Mortality Rate (pee thousand) - Annual deaths of inftncs under nsa year             Estimated Absoluee Poverty Incm   Ltvel (PS) per ca-pia) - urban and rural -
ci age per thsaand live births; 1960, 1970 end 1980 data.                                  Absolute poverty incore level in that iacme leavl helow which a einimal
Access to Safe Water (percent of pacalacien) - total, urban, ad rural - L     ta             necriti.nally adeqae diet plea essential sen-fted requirements is nt
tea at pa eple (total, urban, and rurel) with Iea.onable  .e...s to sate afffodable.
sater opply (includes treated s-feaae sate-n or antreated bat nsacnntaminaed             Eitimated Relative Pnverty Iname Leavl (US) pear cpita) - ubnan and rual -
sater awah as that froe  protected bhenhhles, springs, and caniteepeells) as               onral relativ  paerty in-ome leel is one-third of aerage per -apita
peremetages at the`i  reapectime pepelatinna.  to    rbanhaareaa public                    personal income af he conntry.  Urban level is deriwd fram the rural
founrain or etandpnst loceted not mere than 298 meters fros a heuse nAY be                 lew-l with adjsnest far higher cast af living in srban areas.
enesidered as  being sithin r-acable at.e.s of that hence.  In ruri areas                intimated Population Helaw Abanlane Powrty Inteo   Level (perceet) - erban
rensonable amcesse wuld inply thar the hesseelfe at echers at ehe hencebeld                and rural - Peecent at  pepulatinn (nrban and atraif who are "aban.lat
do met have ts spend a dicpl.Pa rrionate part ef the day  in fetching the                  peer".
f-aiLy's sater needs.
A.c-ns cc ftneea "isrPsal .e.ena(t cieof placinn) - total, urban. and esral -
Ntacer at people (total. urban. and rarel) servd by encrete disposal as
percentages o f their respective pepalaciens.  yrera disposal my include
the salettioA  sao dinp.sel. with Po  witanat t-etost, fa  hv  emenste
aud waste-meser by -sare-berne  ysysems or the use of pit prieies and sisi-
Jsr instaltattani.
Pepataits pe.  Physician - Pepsatlati   divided by ebster of peactistig physi-                                                 Ec-iana ead lecis  Dara Diwiitn.
atnna qaulified free a medical shaol at watiersoiy tenl.                                                                ta_meelt Analycia and Pejiecti-.s pepart_nt
Poeia ti.s per fnerima P-e     -Pn - P.esiaesdivided by abser of prattisg                                                                  May 19i2
eal- and female gradmns sarses. assistrnu se-.as, pemetical ntemes end
cnrsteg mtisi-rime.



a



0-  0. OCOHO    '-10        HHHHHH   '.00  HOOCH              H  0.H-    oH    HHH   .0 100000000000   O0
o    o    000   000          H 010  00.  0001.000   O  0  00               OH       COO   H    HHHHHHHHHO
HHCCO   00   0.0,0   100    H  COHOOlCO 0  00.  HOOMO   OH  H  00.0                H    0000   -    0000000000   OH
0000   00   000.0    "'H    0  OO0Oo-.            H  00.000      H  0  <OH    HO          Soc   CO '00000000000   OH
0000   00   H   '0  HHH    HCCHO00HO'OH   CCHOOO  '00.  -  00                              000   H  0000.0000 000   HO
0' 0.000   HOC  0'"   0  00 00'H OH 00000 00' "'0H0    H0.HHHOHH0HHH                                                      -z
g O'0000 000                0HHHOHO.0000 11HŽ00H  -                                     H HO.OCOOOOHOH
0000   0    O0.0.0.OOHO               0.00   0  OH    HHH0.  OH   0               OH    <OH    0. 0  00             00    0
0 000   OOOOHH         0       0    0000         OH  0.0000   OH  H  0,00    0.0.   1OHHH            0.HHOOH    00           0
0. 0.OOHH0.00CO   0000   HO 00< 0 HO 0 00 OHOHOOO  H 00 000  0 0 OH
HHOOO  0  0HH   OH            0    HHH          00   o'O000   OH  0  HO'-    HO    0.0.             OH  0-0       0.00.    H
HHHO 0000. HHH 0 000 OH 00.0.0.0 0
0    0000 00    H    0    OHOOOOH    H.'.-  0.  0000 H    000  000.H
OOH    HO  OHOC   00           0      0.0        HH  00   H    OH        0          C    00.00  0.          0      000   0
0000   00  0010   -            0      HO         OH  00   0    H         00         H    0.0      H         OH    00.0.  H
O.'00   00.  HHOH   0.0        0      00           H             0       '-'0                                00    000   0
OHOO   OH   00       'HO       0.     HO         OH   0          HO        00            0.      H         ...0.    00   0
0  HO   H    00.0       0      H      0.         <0' H           0.0.      .0.                    '0         H      0.0.
t    O      
HO    0       00      0      0       H         OH  '-.         HO        -0       o
00.0.    HO' H0.0.H      jo    H    "0.      H  H          OH  H          . . -  H       HH0.0.        0'100.'OHH0.0.H0.
01010  '00. H H '00.  10.  . .                   H  -            H
H 0.0.   0.0.  H0.0.0.    [H                      0-                  H  0.0.00.00.  0.00.0            0.100.0.0.0.0.100.0'   H
H0.0.   0.0.  10H10H     10.   H                                      -  - . -  H  OH          .
10   0.   HO'      CO  HO       I 00.0'   0.H0H          010  0.H0.0.       0.H0.O'0.'0O''0'00.
H 0.0 -'10. HHH 0. 10. 0. 0.0.0.HH0.0. 10 0.0.0.0.0. 0. HO 0
0. OH0.       0                      H       H  H
0.                 H      -    H
0. 0.0.0.0.    H                                           0. 0.0.0.           O'010'0       00.'00'0.H'00.H0.   10
0  H0.H0.      0.  0.   HO         H  10       10.0.1.0                        O'HO0.        0.0.0.0.0.0.000.0.
0- 0.                                                                        H
0.10.0.0.  0.00                     "        H  0.
1..      HO                   0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.       H
0.0.000.0.0.0.0'          H                                           0.I0.'0 0  0.0 H     OHO         0. HH0.HHO 0. 0.   H
0    0.  0.0.      -  I H       I 0.H  H                       HOCH          00.0.'.0.'t0.'00.0.    0    H
0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.        0.   0.0.0.00.0.0.0. ['0'   0.0.0.0.0.  10                     - - . --OH  0
0. 0.0.0.0     '0                                          0. 010H   OH        H  0          0.000.H 00.0.0.00.00
-                      0                               'HO   H    -  . . -  0.0       0.100.0       0.0,00.100.0.00.0   10   H  H 0.
0. 0.0.0.0     0.                           0.0.0.00.  0.  0. 0.0.0.           0.0.0.0       0. H0.0.0.H0.000.OHH
0  HI .0. 0.
0.0.0.HO             0.0.0.0.0.0.010100.       0
0.   0                                              H
00.0.    00.  H0.0.H      H                                                  0.  0.0.                                             H
0.100.   0.0.  0.0.00.   '0                                                  0.  0.0                       HI       H  0.        0-
10                                                 .  H                       HHHH0.H0.0.H              H
0.0,0.   0.10  0.0.0.0.    10                                                0.          0.H0.H        H0. 0.0.0.00.00.0.    -    0.
000.                                    H . ' - -.10
00000.      ZOO    000.0.0.                         0. 0.0.0.0.       0.C00.HHHH00.0.    H
0.0.0.0.           HOOHO       OH                             0.00
10  0.0.0.    Vo                  HH0.                            0.000.
-  - - - -     10     010  -0      0.0.0.                          -  0. 00.
0.  0.0.0.0.    [0    0.      0    HO              o  H    0. 0.0.0.    HOO                     H        H  H
0.   0  HO       H      0.0.0.0.0.1                 OOH                   0.0.1010.0.0.0.  0.
(000.0.'.                         0.              100.0.000.0.00.    0.
H  oc   o-    oH                  I                 HO       HH0          0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0,-.
20O                                       0.100       00.0.0.       0.0.00.0.0.0.0.0.0.
000'                                      H  0.  OI
HOH  
0.0.0    00.  0.0.0.0.    H      00   00                           H  0.  0.00.
0.HO    00.  0.0.0.0.     10     00   00.
00  0.               0.0.H0.0.   0.
0.0.0.0.           0.'                                            0. 0.   0.0.00.        0.00.00.0.0.0.0.0      H
10  00.0. H    I      0                                *0                                                          H
0. 0.0.0       10.                                      0.
C     0.   0.0.0.0.                                                 H  0.0.0.  00        "0.0.       0.0.0.0.0.0100.0.10    101.
0.0.0.   0.H  0.100.0.    0.                                          -  .       0.      00.00.        I01000.0100000.    0.H
-     10                                                       0.     000.0         0.010100.0.000.0       H
H H                       0. 0.0.0. H  - - .                      .0.0
0.0.0   010  00.0.0.      0. -              10  10
O  0.0.0.  -  0.10  0.                              H  j                                        H
0. 0.0.0.100.  HOHO                                 0
0. 000.0.0  OH  0.                      0. 0.0.     H
00.000                    0. 0.0 0.100  I
0. 0.0.HH0.  H 0                        0. 0.0. O'[100
00   H                    0. 0.0. 0.[0.0
0.0.0.0                       0    0                    .
0. 100.0.0.    H                 0    0                    0. 00.0.
I'    0.0.00.  [10                    0                                                      I        I           10
-     10                                                          H                 HH0.O H0.H0.00    0.
H  0.0.0.0.    110                    0                                    0.
0                                    0.                0.0.000000.010       I
O                                   0.
0                                    0.                                    0.
Ho                                                                             H
0. HH0.  0.        H                    H  OH    0.   0                                        0.
0. 0.0.0.100.    H                      0. H'00. 110   H                                        0.
00                     0. 00.0.10  00.                                        0.
H         H0.H0.0.H         HH                     .  - - .  0. OH
0.   0.0.0.0.    10.                  00                     0. 0.0.0.   0.00.                                      0.0.
0.0.0.   0.0.  100.00.    '10                  0.0                                0001                 HI    H               0.
0                                                              00H                                  0.   OH
00.0.   0.0. 0.0.H                                                                000                  0.0.0.00.00.0.0      0.10'
0.100.   0.0. 0.0.0. '                                                           OHH                  0.0.0.00.0.00.00.      H
-00.0.10    H                                                                             0.100.00.0.0.0.00
100.000.100.000.1           00.
0.0.0     0. 0.0.0.0      0                                                                                                 0.0.
100.0     0.0.0.0.0.      0                                                                                                 0.     0
-                                                                                                        0      10
100.0.    0  0.0.0.0                                                               01
0. 0.0.0.  000j                                              0.
0. 0.0.0' 0.010!                                             0
0. 0. I 0.010.
0.0.100.00.0.0.0.0. 10010
010






-        a
tloelt       gz  suneNo  M C_gmugOH ~~~~~~~~~~~~s OgdOf iwgw<+s,_o_s roJ                         g     fFff       ff
X~~~~~~~~~2                                                         2           n.>bgifOgat-     1     23            
e~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   £            f r235gOngg>&smG              
ff              r_ Y                    >    w     o                  edS                        ~ ~ °          xnn4   
o > o u o b n o w v   g  o  a  o  0 e 5 t m g r 3 . t-K
35_Ft>n.j o g n w 4~~
" . - s Y o 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i






- 26 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
Number      Year           Borrower             Purpose          Bank    Undisbursed
-- US$ million
27 loans fully disbursed                                         409.2
949        1973    Republic of Peru         Education            24.0         1.5
1196        1976    Republic of Peru         Transport            76.5        17.0
1215        1976    Republic of Peru         Power                35.6         4.1
1281        1976    CENTROMIN                Mining               39.7         3.9
1283        1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.           21.6         8.0
1358        1977    COFIDE                   Industry             35.0         3.2
1403        1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          25.0        19.0
S-11        1978    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment         8.8         1.7
1771        1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation           56.0        46.0
1806        1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5          20.9
1812        1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.           15.0        13.1
1888        1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment         7.5         5.1
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU                Technical Asst.       5.0         4.6
1963        1981    CORPAC                   Aviation             58.0        56.9
1968        1981    COFIDE                   Industry             60.0        53.0
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU              Power                25.0        24.9
2064        1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry                26.0        26.0
2091        1982    Republic of Peru         Transport            93.0        93.0
2117        1982    PETROPERU                Industry              5.3         5.3
2139        1982    SEDAPAL                  Water Supply         40.6        40.6
2150        1982    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          40.6        40.6
2179        1982    ELETROLIMA               Power                81.2        81.2
2195        1982    PETROPERU                Petroleum            81.2        81.2
2204        1982    Republic of Peru         Technical Asst.      10.2        10.2
Total                                                    1,312.5
of which has been repaid                                 197.2
Total now outstanding                                    1,115.3
Amount sold                             18.3
of which has been repaid             18.3                  --
Total now held by Bank                                    1,115.3
Total undisbursed                                                       661.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Type of
Year                Obligor                        Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2         -      0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks              0.3      -       0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3       -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers            4.1      -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement              2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement              1.1     0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining              2.0     0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining              2.7     0.5      3.2
1981        Sogewiese                          Leasing             3.0     0.1      3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de            Power
IJuancavelica                   Transmission        4.5      -       4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                  Palm Oil           15.0       -     15.0
1982        Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.               Mining              3.0     0.5      3.5
Total gross commitments                              53.5      2.3    55.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             19.9     0.4    20.3
Total held by IFC                                    33.6      1.9    35.5
Total undisbursed incl.
participants? portion                               7.1       -      7.1



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project: unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution improved substantially and the project has now been
completed except for preparation activities for a second education project.  An
extens-Lon of the closing date until February 28, 1983 is now being considered for
such preparation activities only.
Loan 1L96-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979). Although the project is moving well, an
extension of the closing date will be necessary to permit its completion.
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced.  Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
rermedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and                 )
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at over US$13.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date will
have to be extended to permit completion of the project.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower--the National Development 3ank (COFIDE)--agreed to finance projects
identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which would also
guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this action and
improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the credit line
has increased, and it is now fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started.  The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date:  September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution is proceeding well.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The feasibility report for the phosphate fertilizer project has been
completed and final project preparation activities are now underway.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
A    Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of June 16, 1982;
Effective Date: August 17, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Initial subloan requests are now under review.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date: _                     Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Loan effectiveness has been delayed because of the difficulty
encountered by the Government in meeting the loan agreement condition of
installing qualified candidates for senior positions in the Highways Directorate.
This problem is now close to resolution.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
September 17, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Consultants are now being selected.
Loan 2139-PE:    Lima Water Supply Project; US$40.6 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date:  September 15, 1982; Closing Date   June 30,
1988.
Initial project execution activities are underway.
Loan 2150-PE:    Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$40.6 million
Loan of September 17, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
Some project consultants, to be retroactively financed, have been
contracted.
Loan 2179-PE:    Sixth Power Project; US$81.2 million Loan of September 17, 1982;
Effective Date:                       Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
Initial project execution activities are now underway.
Loan 2204-PE:    Public Sector Management Project; US$10.2 million Loan of
; Effective Date:              ; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan was approved by the Executive Directors on September 30, 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
PERU
HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
t          (a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project: Three years
(b) Project prepared by: Consultants financed by the IDB
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July 1981
(d) Identification of the project: July 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: March 1982
(f) Completion of negotiations: September 1982
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1983
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) NAU would limit growth in undergraduate enrollments between 1982
and 1988 to an average rate per annum not exceeding two percent,
taking as basis the enrollments during 1981 (para. 51);
(b) NAU would select candidates for participation in the teacher
upgrading program in accordance with selection criteria acceptable
to the Bank (para. 55);
(c) Reports and recommendations of the specialists on improvement of
the agriculture economics program would be furnished to the Bank
not later than 30 days after their receipt by NAU and the NAU would
exchange views with the Bank on these recommendations (para. 57);
(d) The NAU would employ a project coordinator whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to Bank (para. 61); and
(e) The Government would, by June 30, 1983, set up a revolving fund in
A                the Banco de la Nacion and make an initial deposit to cover
approximately two months of counterpart funds disbursements for
civil works. The Government would also set up a special fund in
the Banco de la Nacion, and at the time of the initial deposit in
the revolving fund, the Bank would make an initial deposit in the
special fund to finance approximately three months of civil works
construction (para 68).



2r
A.



IBRD 16499
TUMS, E  80                                                        76'                           IQUITOS                72'                                             JULY 1982
S                              ~~~~PERUE
4HIGHER AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PIURA
CHACHAPOYAS  MOYOBAMBA
E®CtIiCLAYO                              mt Jpy                          
CAJAMARCA                                                                                                                  I
B RA   ZI 
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
-8°                                ® TRUJIL          \LO                             PUCALLPA                                                                                         8
0   Cls       |       U%OT~~~inqo Mqriq  
-                ' ~~~HUARAZ.                                                                                        * 
\HUARAZ             IHUANUCO    M                                                  -
QCERRO DE PASCO
Hudchtoo                            A  0Son R-non                                                              .
AcJaujo       1SOti\                                                                            
-Qe   X   LIMAt                                XC_                                A<    MALDONA 
HUANCAVELICA
S. Vicen     teAYCUCHeC
r     Central NAU  Campus                           C                                 A           BACUCHO                                    \
Regionol DeCelopment fnsCt,ttes        P           I           CAi\ ) ~
Z/     NAU Regiorol Deyelopment Instrite (O.tside Pcolect)
E      Uni-er-try offering Agri-ltrol  nd/    fishiProgrom
Rivers\
Notional Cap.tql                                                                                iif                                                         0
,    Department Capitals
o      Othee Towns
Deport,nent So,ndories                                                 \_'                                                                              o
*r    Nte-notianol 8,t,dories                                                                                                               PUNO*
16'                                                                                                                                       <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  6
KILOMETERS                                                                                 AREQU!-
0          100        200          300
.p h-    p,.p.,ed by   W-ld   k,-HVCOQUEGUA              -
&                       TCb I)7 flo to baen prepared by the Wooja dOookh*tatiooroieruiyferrvtheorrvm r,rr roo
of rrre7aders of Crfe Wrpr to which t- atrocrhed The dOnOOtntinos oe d    ,nd he
hon  ci,' hror no  -P top do b7t -nplr, on the par of the World ok ak.nd t\
yfii,rte,, enrjod-ent n th0/elal O,t- sof ny torrirror any eydersarnor or-
acoep-an      b-of tchondeoriar.-                                                                                                        TACNA
80'o                                               7,60                      :                          7,2-                    CHILE        ;            68,



