Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8368
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(LOAN 1719-UNI)
FEBRUARY 14, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not i ' rwise be l  I             I  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit      =    Nigerian Naira  )(
US$1               -    N4.83            )(  as at Nov. 10, 1988
N1.00                   US$0.207
Subject to change at fortnightly held Foreign Exchange Market auction
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         African Development Bank
ADP         Agricultural Development Project
ARA         Applied Research Associates
ARMTI       Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
CDC         Commonwealth Development Corporation
CMD         Center for Management Development
FACU        Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDRD        Federal Department of Rural Development
FGN         Federal Government of Nigeria
FMG         Federal Military Government
FMWR & RD   Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural Development
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
LGA         Local Government Agency
MSADP       Multi State Agricultural Development Project
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
PCR         Project Completion Report
PRTC        Project-Related Training Component
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
TOT         Training of Trainers
WB          World Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL  S ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0ffac. oE OM.t4w.C14wrhi
OpUtaai £fIuttm 
February 14, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt Project Completion Report on Nigeria - Agricultural and Rural
ManaRement Trainina Institute (Ln. 1719-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Nigeria - Agricultural and Rural Management Training
Institute (Loan 1719-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document hs a msuicted distrbution and may be used by vocilests only in the pona_



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(LOAN 1719-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
Preface       .............  ..*.           ............ ***** ...............           i
Basic Data Sheet ...................................        .0 ...............          ii
Evaluation Summary .....            ..      ..... . ........ ..... . . . .              iv
Overview  ......... 0............... ..6.............................                 xti
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BY BORROWER ............... .........                          1
Summaryoject  Backg         . ... #** ..............  ............                3
chapter I               ................   ..............  .. .......... ..       8
Introduct  Forulaion. .. ............ .   ............. ..                     8
Chapter II ...ct .Prparatin.and..prais.................                          12
Project Backgrount           .. ..... . . ........ ............. .            12
Nigeria        Contract... . ........... .  ......I.....                  12
Agricultural Sector.*. ............  ........... ....                      13
P       roject Formulation ..........................    15
Prc,ect Preparation and Appraisal .................................. 16
(; .apter III Development8..................                    . 
Proh ect  Implementation ............ .............                           18
Management Contracts ............................... ***** ......         18
Board of Governors ...... ......................................          21
Institute  Organizationstr*c tio.......                  . ... .          22
St affing ............... ..... ........                 .... ....        23
Consultants Bln..         .....  ......              ..      .... .       24
N igerian Staff .r... ........ .                  .. . ......             24
Staff Development ........ .............. ......... .O** ......           25
Physical Implementation ..*#....................... **.............           27
Campus Location and Construction ........ 40* .......................     27
Temporary Site ......          .     ................. 000#........... ..  27
Institute Buildings .............o...o...........................         28
Learning Resources/SS&TS ..00.0....0......... .0.                        ................. 34
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents ma r not otherwise bt   ' *    ; WI



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
Chapter                      IV.......                                    ........................  37
Project Achievements ............................... .                  37
Training Needs Studies*                   .......                    37
Management Training ............................ ..                  39
Consultancies ........................................... 52
Collaborative Ventures. ... ......................                   53
Promotion*............................................. o.           56
Special Studies and Technical Services* ..........9                  57
Learning Resources Division .......................                  58
Research, Statistics & Technical ..................                   62
Information Division...i.  .............
Publications, Seminars & Conferences Division .....                  64
Maintenance Division .............         ............... .         66
Chapter V .................................................. 68
Project Costs and Financing .........................                  ^ 68
C^hapter VI .....................................                          72
Performance.**.,.**.**..*............ ........................          72
Project Execution and Management ............... .....               72
Board of Governors........... ....*.............                     73
Supplies and Contracts ... .......6 ......#............              73
Tphe  Banko ........     nsLearnt......................              74
Chapter VII ................................................. 75
Special IssUes and Lessons Learnt ......                     .........................  75
Fees*** ........................ #.... ....................         75
Second Campus ....................................                  76
Siting of ARMTI Campus ...........................                  76
Civil Works Supervision ..........................                  77
Release of Funds ........ ...........                               77
Chapter VIII .......... of ..................                ........     78
Conclusion ..........................................                   78
ANNEX
Comments from the Borrower ............................                   80



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(LOAN 1719-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is : Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural and
Rural Management Training Institute Project (ARMTI) for which Loan 1719-UNI
in the amount of US$9.0 million was approved on July 5, 1979. The loan was
closed, three years behind schedule, in December 1987. Final disbursement
was made in September 1988. Approximately US$40,000 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Borrower. An extensive Evaluation
Summary was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Western
Africa Department, Africa Region.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft Evaluation Summary was sent to the Borrower for comments.
Comments received are attached as an Annex.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE (ARMTI)
LOAN 1719-UNI)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PR.JrT DATA (amount. tom A*rI'o P'1)
________________
Apperisal          Actual or          Actual *
Estimate           Estimtoed          X of
Project Cost (Maire million)          11.8                  47.66           404.011
LAn Amount (US I million)             9.0                    8.95           99.51
Date of oard Approve                                     6-5-79
Onto of Effectiv vna                                     3-30-1
Closing Date                          12-31-64           9-0-68
Economic Rate of Return X *
NMibcr of Direct Beneficiaries                           S481 se
* According to Pr--ident'- Report.  On.f its are non-quantifinble.
so According to PCR preparsd by AflT. total numer of participants
from I6-1987 was 4778. pluo 706 from 1//  to 9/46
CL"TX  D                                                            _           _     __               __                 ____
FM6        Fy61       FY6         FM9        FY64        FM6        FU
30 Q        41    H 4     2300k  4 0 2300 4TH Q300  41140 0   41140  q 410 a064 14T 4 30 4
-------            ----------------------------
Fa.ridIEtinats (lE4 Hi IIioc)  0.5  1.5  20.   4.0  4.9  5.0  6.5  7.2  7.9  86.  9.0 3.          2    . O?es
A..SlI (UN Diilli i )                            0.6  0.9  1.2  1.2  1.9  2.3  2.8  8.6  S.6   .2  5.   6.7  7.6  e.5
Agt OfI..S.ftiW60                            7    7    10   13   21   26   SI   40   42   s6o 6
Approlsal Estimat1 USX million  -   16.8
Actual US* million                 -   28.35
Actual as X ot Estimate            -   167.561
oats of Final Wlersament           -   September 1950
SCIEDILE OF DISSIS3W3 BY WM  (VA U MNILLON)   (Not.: Info. frmo A6I    pa)
…-- --------- ---     ----------                 - ---… -----…
Ff61   FY82   FY83   FY64   FY8s   FY66  FY67   FY16
-- - - -      - - - - -   - - - - - - ---……           -      -- - -
AMNOUf                                   0.58   0.69   1.01   1. 1   1.60   0.66   2.01   1.11
CUMULATIVE                               OS    1.24   2.25   8.56   5.16  584   7.65   8.96
BALANCE                                  6.45   7.76   6.75   5.44   8.64   3.16   1.15   0.04



- liii 
MISSION DATA
-___________
Oate     Number of  Man-days    Specializations      Performance   Trend   Types of
Mission           (mo/yr)  Persons    in Field    Represented */    Rating  b/          c/    Problem  d/
Preparation *    8-76
Appraisal        3-77      5           90          b, f. k* l, I
Supervision 1    12-80    1            12          b                   2              2        M
Supervision 2    2-81      1           17          b                   2              1        0
Supervision 3     6-81     1           21          b                   2              1        --
Supervision 4     11-81    1           26           , J                2              2        M. T
Supervision S     2-82     3           57          a. j. k             1              1        --
Supervision 6    7-82    3             63          a j k               2              1        0
Supervision 7    3-84      1          20           j                   2              1        F. T
Supervision 8     10-84   2            10           a j                2              1        F
Supervi;ion 9    7-85      1           e/          j                   1              2        T
Superdision 10 f/ 2-88     1           22
Supervision 1' f/ 10-86    1          21           J
Supervision 12 f/ 6-87     1           */          j
* Preparation was done by Commonwealth Development Corporation July/August 1976.
*@ a- agriculturist; bu economist; c- livestock specialist; d- extension specialist;
fa engineser; gO loan officer; hu operations assistant; in fisheries specialist;
Jo financial analyst; k- management training specialist; la training specialist
b/: 1 * problem-free or minor problems; 2 m moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
c/: 1 - improving; 2 - stationary
d/: F - financial; Ma management; T a technical; 0  other; P M political.
*/: No data available.
f/: New Form 590 in use that shows rating for overall status
STAFF INPUT
(Stnff weeks)
FY               78      79      80     81        82     88      84      8S       e8      87       e8    Total
Appraisal         2.4    5.4      -      -
Negotiation       -      5.2      -      -                -                         .2     -       _       5.0
Supervision       -      -        IS     24                                         .1     -       _       S 8
Stherviin         -      -        1.5    2.4     7.2     6.4      9.8     7.8     5.8      5.7     28     4.
Oth-e              .2     .2       .2     .1     1.0     -        S                                2.8    47 9
Total             2.8   10.8      1.7    2.6     8.3     6.4      9.8     7.9     5.6      5.7     2.6    68.1
------------------------------------------------ - --------------------------- - ----------------- -  - -------~~~~~~~~~~~.



- iv -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(LOAN 1719-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The need to improve managerial, administrative and technical
skills of Nigerian officers involved in Bank-funded projects had been a
topic of discussions between the Bank and the Nigerian Government since the
early 1970s. In 1976, Government commissioned the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) to prepare proposals for agricultural management training
in Nigeria, based on CDC's own experience in establishing and operating the
Mananga Agricultural Management Centre in Swaziland. Their report was
issued in September 1976, on the basis of which the project was appraised
by the Bank in February/March 1977, with Board approval iu June 1979.
Obiectives
2.        The primary objective of the Project was to upgrade management
skills throughout the agricultural sector by ecstablishing facilities for
the training of managers and supervisors employed in a wide range of
agricultural institutions.
CoQonents
3.        The project was to be implemented over five years and included
the following components:
(a) Construction of training facilities and infrastructure,
necessary teaching and domestic furnishing and equipment, and
vehicles;
(b) Provision of 24 person-years of technical assistance to fill six
senior positions at the Institute;
(c) Fellowships for training outside Nigeria for up to 24 teaching
staff; and
(d) Provision of 24 man-months of support consultants to assist with
continuing course development, to evaluate the results of the
program and to recommend on the need for future development of
the facilities.
4.        The approach recommended in the SAR to be adopted for training
was supposed to have the following characteristics:
(a) Training was to be "highly specific", followed by careful
identification of training needs for specific jobs. The
implication of this approach was for case studies and other
practical exercises to play a prominent part in designing course



materials and methodologies. It was expected that teaching
would need a considerable amount of preparation;                                .:
(b) The training method would involve A four-step process: first,
the teaching of management principles followed by the practice
of new skills during training; rewards for the trainee; and
finally, reinforcement by the supervisors. This implied the
need for the supervisors to be trained in how to reinforce their
subordinates' training;
(c) In conducting courses, the staff of ARMTI would become aware of
organizational constraints of the trainees' ability to manage
effectively. They would therefore be in a position to advise
organizations on ways to improve their staff performance by
making changes in their own structures and procedures. ARMTI
would act as consultants to the various organizations serviced
by their training;
td) Top and middle managers would be trained in courses conducted at
ARMTI; second-line supervisors would be trained either at the
Institute or at a suitable Centre; first-line supervisors.
because of the large numbers involved, would be trained in their
work situations by trainers, selected by each organization and
for whom ARMTI would have a direct training role.
Implemantation
5.        ARMTI's training program exceeded appraisal expectations and its
current strength is reflected in the widely-held view that it provides
relevant training to middle-level managers and supervisors. Project
implementation started on schedule (1979) with the hiring of the management
firm (for five years) and the organization of the advisory committee
(1981). A Board of Directors was created by Decree in 1987. Both
contributed to the successful and smooth implementation of the training
program, particularly in the early years. The training program starte4 in
1982 and moved to the permanent campus in 1986. The SAR anticipated for
ARMTI a simple administrative structure - the office of the Director, two
departments and their respective Units, and a staff strength of about 26
persons. However, during the 1984-1987 period, ARMTI has significantly
expanded its administrative structure t3 13 departments, 11 divisions,
several units and a staff strength of 294 persons, 28 percent of whom are
senior staff. In addition to being overstaffed, this rapid increase-uiot
only created an imbalance between the number of senior teaching staff and
support staff, but has severe cost implications and also raises questions
on ARMTI's future sustainability. The Government and the Bank should
critically analyze such rapid and substantial growth and make
recommendations regarding staff hiring policies, prior to the
implementation of MSADP II. The release of fuads by Government was erratic
throughout project implementation, contributing to the delay in civil works
construction and cost overruns. Procurement and civil works programs
encountered numerous problems ranging from not following Bank's procedures,
delays in approving the award of the contract by the Tender Board, non-
performance of contractors, lack of Government funds and overdesign of



- vi -
buildings. The buildings were designed during the oil boom days and judged
by the Bank as excessively dimensioned. As a result, the Bank did not
participate in the financing of -he administration building, senior staff
houses and academic buildings. However, the Bank later agr9ed to finance
participants' blocks, additional staff houses, water and electrical
contracts, which were re-tendered. The Bank also agreed to increase
disbursement from 45 percent to 85 percent for civil works. There was also
a realloLation of loan funds for equipment, vehicles and furniture ($0.6 to
$1.1 million).  Both procurement of goods and the civil works program were
completed almost three years behind schedule. Overall project costs
exceeded SAR estimates by 404 percent (N11.8 million versus N47.6 million).
This was mainly due to modifications in building designs, but also to
effects of devaluation and high inflation rates throughout the 8 years of
project implementation. IBRD disbursed $8.962 million; a balance of
$37,986 was cancelled. The project was originally conceived and designed
based on more modest installations and a smaller Institute (capacity of
enrollment of trainees), and it was foreseen at appraisal that, in the
light of evaluation, a decision would be taken on the need for an expanded
program and the possibility of establishing a second campus. In view of
the existing facilities as the new campus. there is no need at present for
construction of a second campus. Instead, ARMTI should concentrate its
efforts on consolidating and improving the quality of its training programs
While increasing the number of clients to be served and incorporating new
courses to meet changing needs (i.e., women in development, LGAs, private
sector).
Results
6.        ARMTI was expected, through its 'mainstream' and 'specialist'
courses, to cater to an annual enrollment of 560 (SAR, vv, p. ii).   On an
annual basis, and only to cover the new staff entering the sector, ARMTI
was exp.ted to serve the management training needs of 70 top managers; 340
middle managers and second-line supervisors; a minimum of 560 first-line
supervisors were to be the ultimate beneficiaries of the Otrainl.ng of
trainers" mainstream course. Data available indicate that during the 1982-
1987 period, ARMTI has trained an annual average of 140 top managers, 310
middle-level managers, and 245 lower-level manager,. 1;  The overall
average of 695 participants per year has exceeded the SAR targets by 24
percent. There is no evidence that the training of trainers (TOT) program
has contributed to reaching the SAR annual target of 563 first-line
supervisors. However, over the 1984-87 period about 11 manpower and
training officers and 89 senior training officers attended courses. The
PCR estimates that an annual average of about 996 first-line supervisors
have been trained by these officers, thus greatly exceeding the SAR
estimates of 563 staff per year.
1/ Difference in number of trainees as compared to PCR .prepared by the
borrower due to classification adopted for management training, i.e. report
writing, data collection and processing, procurement, rural development and
drivers' courses were not considered management courses for the purpose of
this paper.



- vii -
7.        The SAR did not set targets for the provision of the various
agricultural and rural development organizations. Nevertheless, there was
a presumption that ARMTI would provide equitable access across types of
crganizations as well as geographical locations.  Data for the 1982-1986
period shows that nearly 54 percent of ARMTI trainees came from ADPs; 38
percent from Federal Ministries and Departments, State Ministries and
parastatals; ab- t 8 peroent of all trainees came from private
organiz.tions, financial institutions and research and training
organizations. The vast majority of trainees came from "enclave" or
"older' ADPs (Kwara, Kano, Bauchi, Kaduna, S&.koto).
8.        The SAR placed great importance on the identification of
training needs. Two methods have been used by ARMTI for needs assessment:
(a) The Project-Related Training Component (PRTC) method gave the
ADPs a handle on specifying the nature of skill gaps and
identifying the areas in which position holders may generally
benefit from training. Dissemination of the PRTC methodology
was actively fostered by the Bank and its later application was
led by FACU, with ARMTI involvement (MSADP I). Although the
validity of the method is not an issue, various comments from
ADP staff suggest it is cumbersome and confusing for the varied
purposes it is supposed to achieve. Moreover, its exclusive
reliance con the perceptions of supervisors, whose own managerial
proficiencies are questionable, weakens it as a definite process
for analyzing skills gaps and defining demand for training.
Thus the PRTC is an inadequate instrument for defining the scope
of the demand for management training for ADPs;
(b) The accepted method of needs analysis at ARMTI is based on
expert panel assessments of the general areas of competence
necessary for specific job pp-'-*rmance. In this respect it
fulfills the SAR criteria fot "...iob-specific, performance-
based..." training.  However, th.e purpose of this method is not
so much to identify actual gaps in the range of skills necessary
for job performance but to ensure that the curricula developed
as a result of the gaps identified respond to the needs
identified, hence its name: Developing A Curriculum (DACUM).
9.        The two methods used for assessing training needs are ill-
adapted to the requirements of a needs assessment exercise. Even if the
two were merged, the PRTC method would only refer to the organizing aspects
while the DACUM method would be most useful in translating job-specific
training needs into a job-specific curriculum. Therefore, the method of
identification of training needs would need to be improved in the future.
10.       APMTI, since its inception, invested a significant portion of
technical assistance and staff time in developing, testing and delivering
courses in three mainstream courses: General Management, Project
Management, and Financial Management. By focussing on the basic skills
inc,uded in "mainstream courses", there has been a tendency to overlook
spectfic skills needed in specialized courses. This tendency has
reinforced the academic and theoretical bent of management training at the



- viii -
expense of a practical, job-specific and performance-based approach
preconized by the SAR.
11.       An assessment of the quality of teaching is closely related to
the issue of staff utilizations ir order to perform at their most effective
level, the ARMTI training staff noied to have sufficient time allocated to
those other activities which precede and follow the actual training, and
which have a direct bearing on maximizing its potential impact.  They
should not be so overburdened by their training contact requirements that
the remainder of their workload as trainers is spent at a considerably
lower level of physical and intellectual efficiency. This would include
such catepories of activities as pre-course visits, module preparation and
consultancies. Data available from 1986 on trainer utilization, indicates
that the Training Department, with 14 staff members, operated with serious
shortages and uneven allocations of time devoted to training. The
following comments refer to actual time spent in contact with trainees at
ARMTI's headquarters, and courses-outside headquarters, the follow-up and
travel time related to these courses, and with the "diploma" courses. It
also assumes that contact time over 35Z of total time available runs the
serious risks of detracting from the quality of training by unduly
straining the human resources available. From contact with staff and -
clients, it can be safely assumed that ARMTI teaching staff worked at least
10OX of their available time. There were, however, some imbalances in
teaching staff time allocation. For example, the .224 person/year (PY)
devoted to ARMTI's farm might have '-sen more usefully applied to relieve
the .282 PY of excess training load expended by two other members of the
division.
12.       Although ARMTI has undertaken consultancies, this capacity has
not been systematically evolved in identifying management needs as a
preliminary step to course preparation and delivery. Regarding the follow-
up of trainees, in 1.986 (the only year for which data is available), ARMTI
training staff spent 5.1 percent of their total available time in follow-up
activities; 3.2 percent in related activities in pre-course visits. The
function of follow-up, in an integrated system of course evaluation tied to
job performance, has not been achieved.
13.       There appears to have been an equitable allocation of funds for
staff development. However, the study tours were very much in the
traditional mode of academic theoretical learning, rather than project-
based and experiential. Exposure to the experiences of other countries in
Africa, Latin America, Asia, in overcoming the problems of smallholder
agriculture or in visiting similar study institutes, may be more useful to
the Nigerian context than the theoretical immersion in the state-of-the-art
management methods in the U.K. or U.S.A. Moreover, ARMTI's trainers lack
in-depth, first-hand experience of the Nigerian institutions they are
supposed to serve. This, along with the exposure to similar conditions in
diverse contexts, are necessary learning experiences to trainers trying to
develop indigenous solutions to Nigeria's problems in the rural sector.



- ix -
Sustainability
14.       ARHTI's current strength is reflected in the widely-held view
that it provides relevant training to middle-level managers and supervisors
and has established itself as a management training institution. Of
course, the absence of other similar institutions which unambiguously
compete for the same market has made easier the task of becoming a leader
in the field. As a public institution, ARHTI is not authorized to charge
fees for public sector participants. Nevertheless, ARMTI still loses
potential trainees to such inttitutions as ASCOM and CMD although both
charge more than ARMTI for course materials and lodging.  ARMTI's strength
to date has been on training middle-level managers and supervisors;
however, the training of top-level managers and first-level supervisors
presents distinct problems which must be met according to specifically
designed marketing strategies, a challenge that ARMTI's staff need to be
prepared for. The issue of cost recovery has to be addressed immediately.
Even though it cannot expect in the short run to cover its operating costs
from course fees, ARMTI should, however, recover full cost of lodging and
course materials. ARMTI should immediately introduce a method of
accounting for the cost of each discrete training activity, both as a tool
of financial management and, more importantly, as a necessary step towards
introducing cost recovery measures. This would involve a time recording
system for training and materials production by staff, as well as an
equipment and materials utilization recording system, attributing their use
to specific activities. Both systems would distinguish different phases of
course preparation and delivery, so that actual cost of training could be
arrived at for each activity. It would also facilitate ARMTI's decision-
making process on the allocation of scarce human and financial resources
and ways of introducing measures for cost reduction. In the long run,
however, the issue of ARMTI being able to charge fees should be addressed.
Since all the ADPs and most other agencies have discrete allocations for
training purposes, they should pay the full training cost.
Findings and Lessons Learned
15.       The lessons learned includet
(a) In the medium-term, the principal objective of ARMTI should be
to consolidate its achievements and upgrade its teaching
capabilities for improving management performance in the
agricultural sector. This objective has the following
implications:
(1)     Growth and Outreach.  ARMTI's future lies in being
able to improve the quality of its program while
greatly increasing the number of clients to be served
and adding new priority courses according to the
demand of expanded or new sector programs. The
development of a Distance Learning capability will
allow ARMTI to test the methods which may serve the
needs of first- and second-line supervisors in a more
cost-effective marer than through the provision of
courses (in-house or away) for the same audiences.



- x 
ARMTI could also more effectively use the network of
trained trainers, relying on them for needed support
to self-study packages.
(ii)     Production of Materials.  Existing materials produced
in print media will have to be considerably upgraded
in content, presentation and quality, to facilitate
their use by trainers, and should constitute packages
for specific courses and for the needs of specific
groups of participants attending the same course at
different times. Trainers should have the option of
adapting the content of modules according to the
interests and needs of the clientele to be served.
(iii)     Technical Internal Coordination.  Creating new courses
or materials and ensuring quality control of the
training and production processes will require
considerable coordination and cooperation between the
Training Department responsible for designing the
training and material content and the Technical
Services Department responsible for the production -
aspects of the process. The role and functions of
these Departments would need to be reviewed and
clearly defined.
(b) Managers in the agricultural sector require both knowledge and
practice ii basic management skills. Therefore, emphasis in
courses should not be overly theoretical but focus much more on
case studies based on actual work situations and in the Nigerian
context. ARMTI's mandate should continue to provide job-
specific, performance-based training focussed on specific needs
of the trainee and the sector. It should avoid the image of an
institution providing general management skills training,
competing in a market it was never intended to claim.
(c) The inaccurate identification of needs in the sector may result
in courses which are not responsive to actual needs of the
participants, though this may reflect the subjective of some.
Closer links with FACU and ADPs management (main clients of
ARMTI) on the development of overall management development
plans, which are periodically updated, should serve as an
adjusting mechanism for ensuring that training programs are
achieving their objectives.
(d) As part of the consolidation program, ARMTI should establish and
implement a systematic process of evaluating the external impact
and effectiveness of its training programs. The evaluation
process should focus on questions related to: (i) the adequacy
between the demand for training and the courses made available
in response to the needs; (ii) assessment on how training
translates into improvement of performance for those agencies
with trained managers; (iii) what constitutes a critical mass of



- xi -
managers with upgraded management skills; (iv) the relative
cost-effectiveness of the different training approaches.
(e)  ARHTI should establish a cost accounting system and a cost
recovery mechanism which would contribute to ensure
sustainability of ARHTI's program.



- xii -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(Loan 1719-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Overview
The PCR was prepared by ARMTI staff with the assistance of a
consultant. The PCR gives a descriptive assessment of project
implementation and highlights the following aspects:
Overall Implementation. ARMTI has been extremely successful in achieving
training targets planned in the SAR; however, numerous problems occurred
during the implementation of the physical infrastructure, resulting in
delays in completing the campus and procurement of goods, and in cost
overruns.
Training for Top Managers. A recent study showed that there are re-l
training needs at the very senior management levels, but it is also
recognized that relatively few members at this level actually take time off
for training and that the more senior the manager, the more he is oriented
towards short-term training. ARMTI has been extremely successful in
middle- and junior-level management training. The future challenge for
ARMTI will be in attracting senior-level managers and in designing course
content and materials catered to this clientele. The use of top lecturers
on management aspects from Nigeria and elsewhere should be considered to
complement ARMTI's expertise.
Broadening of ARMTI's Client Base. The report points out that managers
interviewed, raised the issue that in their perception ARMTI training was
specifically oriented towards the ADPs, and as such not relevant to their
needs. With the new programmatic approach taken by the state-wide ADPs, it
is most likely that in the short term, they will remain ARHTI's main
clients; however, ARMTI would need to make a concerted effort to attract
and cater its services to other private and public sector organizations.
This has implications in the design of course content and materials and in
the delivery of services. In addition, ARMTI would need to adopt a more
aggressive marketing approach in "selling" its services to potential
clients, i.e. LGAs, credit institutions, and private sector. Related to
the above are the consultancy services provided by ARMTI to a wide range of
institutions. So far, consultancy services appear to have been
concentrated on manageument aspects, identification of training needs and
feasibility studies, mainly fcr industries. Although ARMTI is well
equipped to provide consultancy on management issues, it loes not have a
comparative advantage to prepare feasibility studies, nor is it in its
mandate to compete with other institutions better equipped to provide
assistance in this field.
Establishment of a "Regional Presence'. The report argues for the need for
ARMTI to maintain offices in the various regions, thereby providing easy
access and interaction between ARMTI and its client group. This will
significanti, increase ARMTI's operational costs and add staff to the
existing large number of staff. Close contact with the client group could
be established in different ways, i.e. periodic visits to the clients by



- xiii -
ARMTI's staff; in-house or long-distance training; organization of meetings
with clients in strategic locations. The need for the establishment of
regional offices, the costs involved and their benefits should be
critically analyzed prior to implementing this activity. Related to the
above is the existing on-campus training capacity. Currently, ARMTI has a
physical capacity of 3600 trainee weeks per annum. In 1987, about 66
percent of this capacity was utilized for training purposes. Perhaps ARMTI
should first make an attempt to increase the utilization capacity of its
costly structure prior to expanding its physical presence to the regions.
Manpower Development. The report recommends the continuation of a vigorous
program for staff development and greater exposure and integration with
potential client groups and local universities. This should create a
better understanding on the part of the staff of the needs and actual
working situation of the trainees trying to develop solutions to Nigeria's
agricultural problems. A number of activities could be considered: (i)
limited time period secondments to development agencies, whose performance
ARMTI is charged with improving through management training; (ii)
internship in other similar training institutions in Africa and elsewhere
(Tanzania, Swaziland, India, Brazil); (iii) participation-in project work
(appraisal, supervision, project preparation); (iv) participation in
conferences and presentation of paper on ARMTI's experiences. It is
imperative that ARMTI prepares a staff development plan for the next five
years. The diversity of experience included in the plan (formal training,
visits to other centers, etc,) will depend on the links that ARMTI will be
able to maintain with the international commur.:ty and its access to
information on management training. It is most likely that financing of
these activities could be tapped from bilateral or multilateral development
agencies.



,a 
.-1 
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN NO. 1719 UN
PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT
NOVEMBER 1900



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATION
1.   ACA           Assistant Chief Accountant
2.    ACEO         Assistant Chief Executive Officer
3.    ACM          Assistant Catering Manageress
4.    ACMDO        Assistant Chief Management Development Officer
5.   ACME          Assistant Chief Maintenance Engineer
6.    ACIA         Assistant Chief Internal Auditor
7.   ACSO          Assistant Chief Stores Officer
8.    AD           Assistant Director
9.    ARA          Applied Research Associates
10.    AS           Administrative Secretary
11.    CA           Chief Accountant
12.    CAO          Chief Administrative Officer
13.    CM           Catering Manageress
14.    CMDO         Chief Management Development Officer
15.    CME          Chief Maintenance Engineer
16.    DIR          Director
17.    DS           Deputy Secretary
18.    FC           Financial Controller
19.    FDRD         Federal Department of Rural Development
20.    FMG          Federal Military Government
21.    FMWR & RD    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural Development
22.    MDO          Management Development Officer
23.    MT           Management Training
24.    PA           Principal Accountant
25.    PAS          Principal Administrative Secretary
26.    PCO          Principal Catering Officer
27.    PEO          Principal Executive OfficeL
28.    PIA          Principal Internal Auditor
29.    PMDO         Principal Management Development Officer
30.    PME          Principal Maintenance Engineer
31.    PNS          Principal Nursing Sister
32.    PPO          Principal Purchasing Officer
33.    PPSRO        Principal Public & Staff Relations Officer
34.    PS           Personal Secretary
35.    PSO          Principal Stores Officer
36.    PSP          Principal Superintendent of Press
37.    SA           Senior Accountant
38.    SIA          Senior Internal Auditor
39.    SLO          Senior Library Officer
40.    SMDO         Senior Management Development Officer
41.    SME          Senior Maintenance Engineer
42.    SNS          Senior Nursing Sister
43.    SPSRO        Senior Public & Staff Relations Officer
44.    SS           Senior Statistician
45.    SS & TS      Special Studies & Technical Services
46.    US           Under Secretary
47.    WE           World Bank



- 3 -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(LOAN 1719-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT 1/
SUMMARY
1.   Successive Governmenits in Nigeria in recent decades realised
that the Nigerian economy cannot recover unless the performance
of the agricultural sector is returned to its pre oil boom era
when the country was virtually self sufficient in respect of
basic food items, raw materials for its local industries and
earned substantial foreign currency from exported agricultural
products to meet the cost of essential imports of commodities and
services.
2.   Consequently the Federal Government embarked on a number, of
expensive    projects   designed   to   substantially    increase
agricultural  production.   operation   Peed  the  Nation,  Green
Revolution, River Basin Development Projects are examples of such
projects. Furthermore, the World Bank, willing to lend a helping
hand to restore agricultural production to normal, has invested
large sums of money to assist in the Agricultural Development
Projects.
3.   The Federal Government,  realising that management skills in
the agricultural and rural sector are grossly inadequate to cope
with the management needs of the various government and private
sector development projects requested for assistance from the
World Bank to set up an institute whose main function would be to
/1 This is a complete transcript of the PCR provided by the Agricultural
and Rural Management Training Institute exclusive of the Annexes.
These Annexes are on file and available from OED.



- 4 -
train   agricultural   project  managers  to   ensure   effective
management of all projects. The World Bank agreed to make a loan
of nine million US dollars (US$9.0 million) available to the
Federal  Government for the first phase of the development of the
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI).
4.   In  compliance with the terms of the loan agreement  between
the FGN and the World Bank (Loan 1719 UNI) dated July 16, 1979
the Federal Department of Rural Development completed agreement
with a Canadian firm of Consultants, ARA, to supply long term and
short term Consultants needed to participate with Nigerian
officers  to  ensure  a fast development  of  the  Institute.   A
vigorous staff development programme was pursued throughout the
project implementation period.
5.   After  an  initial Training Needs Study  essential  for  the
preparation of the training programme, training started on a
rented temporary site in the vicinity of Ilorin township in
February 1982.   The development of the permanent site some 20 km
from Ilorin was actively pursued and by October 1986 the most
essential buildings - the administrative block, the management
training block, learning resources centre, senior staff quarters,
clinic   etc.   were  re.ady  and  the  training  activities  were
transferred to the new campus.
6.   The   Training  department  under  the  Assistant   Director
(Management Training) is in charge of the implementation of the
training courses.



- 5 -
7.   Since inception of training, the Institute has trained 4,773
as at December 1987, an annual average of 795 trainees which
represents a 42% increase over projected annual estimate of 558
in  the appraisal report.   Of the 3,600 trainee weeks per  annum
available at the Institute, capacity utilisation in 1987 was only
66% as some 45.5% of the courses were held out of campus.
8.   The  main  focus o- the training was the ADPf but these  had
only 54.2% of the attendance in 1982 - 1987. Federal Ministries,
departments and State Ministries of Agriculture had 25%. Private
farming enterpriser had 8% and the remaining 12.8% was shared by
River  Basin  Development  Authorities,   Research  and  Training
Institutions and Financial Institutions.
9.   A well equipped and properly organised department of Special
Studies and Technical Services (SS&TS) headed by an Assistant
Director provides support for the training programmes through the
Learning Resources Div?..sion with an audio visual unit, a library,
printing,  reproduction and graphics units.   The department runs
seminars, conferences some of them international and or national
and runs the annual lectures. All essential publications used by
trainees  are  produced  in this  department.   In  addition  the
department has functions for research, statistics and technical
information. In the initial stages all consultancy services were
carried out in the department.
10. ARMTI runs a maintenance division which has the function of
overseeing the campus development, erection of some of the



-6-
buildings by direct labour, water supply, electricity, telephone.
Maintenance   and  repairs  cf  vehicles  and  tractors  are  the
responsibilities of the maintenance division.
11.  AR?TI  is  actively  pursuing a market  drive  in  order  to
inform the various institutions in the public and private sectors
of   the  relevance  of  ARMTI  courses  and  services  to  their
respective enterprises.   The Public Relations Unit has the  main
responsibility for this but the other members participate in this
drive.   The  Director has recently toured West African countries
to let the region become aware of available facilities for
training their staff either at ARMTI campus or in their own
countries with staff and training materials provided by ARMTI.
12.  The  total project cost is 147.66 million which is  304%  of
the appraisal cost estimate of H11.8 million.  This is partly due
to modifications in the design of the buildings but partly due to
the effects of the devaluation of the naira and the high rate of
inflation throughout the 8 year period.
13. In US dollar terms, total cost is US$28.35 million 57.5%
above  the appraisal estimate of US$18.0.   The loan disbursement
of the US$9.0 million was spread out through a period of 8 years
terminating in September 1988 with an unspent balance of about
USS0.04 million.
14.  The   Federal  Government's  contribution  to  the   project
amounted to N29.035 million.



-7-
15. Although tne benefita accruing from the training courses and
the  seminars  ?tc.  ire not quantifiable,   it is  obvious  from
response to questionnai res issued durirng the 1987/88 training
needs  survyv  Uh;at  .he trainlng provided  at  AMTI  is  making
tremendous   :pnpact  on  the  efficiency  cf management  in  the
4griculture and rural sector. 2The ADPP, the largest and earliest
patrons  of  cna  Lra ;".Lg courses Cor;e.,ted  favourably  on  the
training.   The exposure of the trainers to a fairly large number
of courses at home and abroad has played an important role in
upgrading their ski]ls, in management training.



- 8 -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
(LOAN 1719-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
1.1 in order to revive Nigeria's economy, which has been in bad
shape for some years, the Federal Military Government (FMG)
is aware that the starting point should best be directed to
the development of its agriculture and rural  sector.   This
would ensure a fast return to a state of near self
sufficiency in the production of essential food items, the
production of adequate quantities of raw materials for the
expanding agro-industries in the country and a substantially
increased production of exportable agricultural products to
-_n  the foreign currency to pay for essential  imports  of
commodities and services, and at the same time increase
government revenue.
1.2  In an attempt to achieve these ideals,  the Federal Military
Government   in recent years has embarked on a large  number
of  projects in the agricultural and  rural  sector.   These
include the encouragement of private sector participation in
agr.cultural enterprises.   Some of these projects are fully
funded by the Federal Military Government while a large
number of others are funded with substantial foreign aid.



- 9 -
From 1971 to 1979, the World Bank approved sixteen projects
in  the  agricultural sector with  a  total loan  amount  of
US$373.2 million.   Other projects then being prepared have
1,een implemented and some are still being implemented.
1.3  This  huge programme of investment in the  agricultural  and
rural   sector,   together   with  the  intensification   of
agricultural  practices,  and expansion and  development  of
support  services,  call  for substantial  strengthening  of
management  capacity  at all levels within the  sector.   At
present, the existing agricultural training institutions are
not staffed or equipped to train practicing managers for the
agricultural industry in management skills, and the only
organizations involved in.management training are either
solely oriented towards the needs of commerce and industry,
or towards the management and business components of degree
studies.   The  Federal  Government of Nigeria (PGN) felt  a
very urgent need to develop a capability within Nigeria to
provide training for staff in managerial and supervisory
positions in agriculture and rural administration in a broad
range of management skills.
1.4  Consequently,  the Federal Government wi.th the assistance of
a World Bank loan (Loan No. 1719 UNI) in the sum of US$9.0
million established the Agricultural and Rural Management
Training Institute (ARMTI) specifically to impart managemwnt
skills to managers and superviaors in the agricultural and
rural sector of the Nigerian economy.



- 10 _
1.5 In 1984, the Federal Military Government issued Decree No.
37 the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Decree   - which   established ARMTI  and  described  its
constitution,  objectives  and methods of  operation.   The
Decree was deemed to have come into force in February 1,
1980.
1.6 Training started on a temporary site in Ilorin in February
l982 while erection of facilities commenced on the permanent
campus some 20 km from Ilorin town in January 1984.
Transfer to the new campus took place in October 1986.
1.7 The project implementation phase was expected to cover a 5
year period  between  1981 and December  1985.   The  loan
disbursement continued until September 1988 with a total
disbursed loan of US $8,961,000 leaving an unspent balance
of about US$39,000.
1.8 This Project Completion Report (PCR) requested by the World
Bank was prepared by a team.    Relevant data were  provided
by ARMTI staff from the various sections actively involved
in the implementation of the project.
1.9 The PCR was based on information obtained from the Appraisal
Report .'.Report No. 1697 UNI of 23rd May, 1979), the loan
agreement dated 16th July 1979, Internal Bank Memoranda,
Aide Memoire of numerous Supervision Missions, Review of
…______________________________________________________   ________
1) Chief S.A. Adeniyi - Consultant Agriculturalist
Mr. A. Bolaji - ARMTI Staff



- 11 -
Progress of ARK'.I by British Council, a Pre Aprraisal Report
for a second World Bank loan for ARMTI, ARA Report &
Proposals, Second lAPITI Needs Study Report, and responses to
questionnaire during the Field Survey of the 2nd ARMTI
Training Needs Study,
1.10 The report is presented in a summary section and Eight
Chapters. Chapter I introduces the report and chapter II
gives the general background against which the project was
formulated.     Chapter   III   deals   with   the   project
implementation,    and    Cbapter   IV   presents    project
achievements. Chapter V deals with project costs and
financing.    Chapter   VI   gives   overview   of   project
performance. Chapter VII deals with special issues and
lessons learnt while Chapter VIII concludes the report.



- 12 -
CHAPTER II
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Nigeria
2.1  The  Federal Republic of Nigeria now comprises 21 states (19
states at the time of project appraisal) and covers a land
area  of 924i0C0 km2    For lack of acceptable census  since
1963 the population has been a projection from the 1963
census data, and projected figures vary in accordance with
the varying assumed growth rates. The projections from two
well known sources - Nigerian Federal Office of Statistics
and the World Bank reports - indicated population exceeding
100 million people by 1986/87.   Assumed annual growth  rate
varies  between  2.7% and 3.3%.   These uncertainties  about
Nigerian population and growth rate represent a severe
constraint to economic planning, especially as they affect
almost all other parameters.
2.2  The  1984 GDP at 1984 factor costs is estimated at P575  per
caput which is quite low but conceals substantially lower
production  in  the rural areas.   The Nigerian  economy  is
dominated  by  the oil sector which accounted for  97.7%  of
export earnings in 1980.   There was a slight drop to  94.6%
in   1983.    Subsequent  introduction  of  the   Structural
Adjustment Programme which substantially widened the export
base would have led to a further drop in the percentage
contribution of petroleum sector to the export earnings.



- 13 -
Agricultural Sector
2.3  Up  till the early 1970s,  agriculture including  Livestock,
Fisheries, and Forestry was the main foreign exchange earner
and   the   main  employer  of   labour.    It   contributed
substantially to government revenue and above all provided
the major food items to virtually self sufficiency level for
Wm
the country. Minerals and crude oil contributed very little
to the foreign exchange earnings then.
2.4  With  the  oil  boom  in  the mid and  late  1970s  and  the
concomitant colossal increases in government spending in the
areas of accelerated urban development, most able bodied
youth previously engaged in agricultural production for food
and for export moved into urban areas for quick money and
'better  life'.   Agriculture suffered a severe neglect  not
only because of shortage of labour but also because of low
government    inputs    into    agricultural    development.
Consequently   agricultural  production  fell   drastically.
Export  crops were neglected to the extent that the  country
became a net importer of comodities like palm produce,
groundnut produce, commodities for which the country was
among the leading exporters in the 1960s.
2.5  Food  production  was harder hit.   The demand for  food  in
Nigeria was increasing by some 3 to 3.5% per annum while
food production was increasing by a mere 1 - 1.5% per annum.
The  country  had to fill this gap.   The Government had  to
resort to massive importation of food items especially



- 14 -
cereal grains including those which could be successfully
grown at home. To rake matters worse, the Nigerian currency
(Naira) was over valued at the time, thus imported food
items were considerably cheaper than locally grown ones,
consequently  farmers  were  discouraged and they  cut  down
production to a little more than what would be adequate for
the family.       Food importation which averaged only about
W43,000 per annum in the period 1962-69 rose rapidly to
R1820 million in 1981. The oil glut and low oil prices
resulted in large payment deficits which became a source of
serious concern inside as well aa outside Nigeria. . The
result of the neglect of agriculture when oil incomes could
have been used with advantage to develop agriculture is
largely responsible for the present economic depression in
Nigeria.
2.6 When eventually the FMG realised the need to revamp the
economy, it introduced a number of measures designed to step
up production.  These steps include:
- the banning of imported grains - rice, maize and wheat;
- the introduction of SFJ/IFEM designed to make the naira
find its own level in the international market and
therefore   discourage  importation   while   encouraging
production of agricultural products for export;
-  introduction    of   measures   designed   to    increase
agricultural  production  throughout  the  country.   The
operation of Agricultural Development Projects in all the
states of the federation, with the assistance of World



- 15 -
*Bank funds is one of the measures directed to the
grassroot farmers to encourage adoption of profitable
innovations in their agricultural production.
Project Formulation
2.7 The massive investment in the agriculture and rural sector
by the FMG,  the WB and private individuals created a demand
for manpower skillea in management and supervision of
various aspects of agricultural production. The FMG decided
to  find  suitable  assistance  towards  the  provision   of
training facilities to bridge the gap. The World Bank which
had invested US$373.2 million in the agricultural and rural
sector in the period 1971-79 was equally interested in
securing the services of trained managers to ensure a
successful   implementation  of  these  investment  projects
especially the Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs)..
2.8 Existing information on personnel indicated that a total of
20,000 skilled managers and supervisors would be needed in
the ten years startinS from 1979 in order tc effectively
manage   agricultural  production  projects  in  public  and
private sectors in Nigeria. It was obvious that this number
could  not  be  produced  unless  an  appropriate   training
institution was provided within the country to satisfy this
need  especially  as  all  existing  agricultural   training
centres at Universities and Institutes had concentrated on
imparting only technical skills.



- 16 -
Project Preparation and Aepraisal
2.9  Following  discussions between the FMG and the World Bank on
the   need  for  agricultural   management   training,   the
Commonwealth Development Corporation was asked to prepare a
proposal for agricultural management training in Nigeria
based on its experience with establishing and operating the
Mananga  Agricultural.  Management Centre  in  Swaziland.   A
report was issued in September 1976 which became the
preparaT.on  .epcrt Cor the World Bank Appraisal Mission  in
1979.
2.10 The AppraiEai Repo-rt published in May 1979 by the World Bank
Mission described the need for agricultural management
training in Nigeria, how a suitable project might be
established   to  conduct  this  training,   the   financial
Organisation  and  management aspects of  the  project,  and
lastly  the recommendations and agreements reached with  the
FMG.   On  the  basis  of the conditions  described  in  the
Appraisal Report a first loan of US$9.0 million was provided
for the FMG by the World Bank to establish the Agricultural
and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI).
2.11 The function of the Institute could be summarised as:
- identification of agricultural and management training
needs
- development of training programmes to meet these needs
- carrying out the training programme
- establishment of a residential campus



- 17 -
-  establishment of an audio-visual production unit and
- undertaking other activities calculated to help achieve
the purpose of the Institute.
An ARM4TI Board of Directors was to be in charge of policy
directives.
F



- 18 -
CHAPTER III
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Management Contracts
3.1  The appraisal report provided for a management
contract with a consulting firm to be responsible for:
- setting up and establishing the Institute including the
selection of staff, liaison with architects, and the
preparation of documents for the procurement of goods and
services required by the Institute;
- identification of specific management training needs in a
sample of typical agricultural organizations to be served
by the Institute, and the preparation of detailed curricula
for training modules to be used to meet these needs;
-  organization of local and overseas training, of Nigerian
staff who are selected to fill teaching and support
positions at the Institute;
- teaching courses in management techniques as laid out in
the curriculum;
- the establishment of evaluation procedures to make the
systematic evaluation of training effectiveness a permanent
feature of the Institute's activities; and



- 19 -
-  an   overall  evaluation  of  the  achievements  of   the
Institute after two years of operation that could be used
in conjunction with a review by the Bank and Federal
Government in deciding on expansion of facilities and/or
the establishment of a new campus.
3.2  The   FDRD  entered  into  a  five  year  contract  for  the
development and management of ARMTI with ARA Consultants of
Canada.   The  contract  provided  for the  provision  of  6
Resident Consultants for a total of 20 man-years:
Director                        5 years
Administrative Secretary        3 years
Learning Resources Advisor      3 years
Accounting and Financial
Training Advisor            3 years
General Management
Training Advisor            3 years
Project Management Advisor      3 years
TOTAL          20 years
3.3   The contract also provided for 25 man-months of short term
consultancy to conduct such activities as the training needs
analysis  and  to provide specialist  skills  as  required.   The
responsibilities  under the management contract were expected  to
be completed by July, 1985.
3.4  Over the course of the implementation period, modifications
were made which include:



- 20 -
- the extension of the Learning Resources Advisor for a
period of 6 months;
- the extension of the Administrative Secretary for
Approximately one year;
- reduction of the number of short term consultancy man-
months;
- the transfer of several working months from one sector
to cther positions.
3.5  cver   the  term  of  the  contract  tile  consultants   have
experienced a number of difficulties. Tnese include:
- turnover of a number of positions due to illness or
family circumstances which required that consultants be
replaced.   (The  replacement costs were borne  by  ARA
Consultants);
- difficulty in recruiting appropriate expatriate and
Nigerian stiff for the post of Financial Controller and
supporting staff delayed the establishment of proper
financial controls and accounting systems for almost
one year;
- difficulty in establishing a proper balance between
training and administrative support staff at ARMTI.
The administrative requirements of the Institute have
led to the engagement of an administrative staff
complement   far  in  excess  of  what  was  originally
anticipated by either the World Bank or the Federal
Government of Nigeria.   At the same time difficulty in



21 -
identifying and attracting training staff has left the
Manacment Training Division and the Learning Resources
and  special Programs  Division  understaffed.    This
situa-cicn has since improved considerably.
Boarci of Governors
3.6 An Adviscry Committee was established in 1981 to advise the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Development (FMAWR&RD) on the management of ARMTI until
appropriate legislation could be passed to give ARM4TI a
parastatal status with its Board of Governors. The 9 member
Advisory  Committee   was drawn from the  Universities,  and
other Institutions of higher learning and the Ministry of
Agriculture,  Water  Resources and Rural  Development.   The
Director of ARMTI was a member.
3.7 This Advisory Committee had the job of seeing the Institute
through its early years i.e. from inception in 1981 until
1987.   Their  job  was not made easy by the fact  that  the
Directorsnip of the young Institute changed hands a number
of times.
Dr. T.R.M, McLeod   -  5/11/80 - 28/9/81
Dr. G.H. Brown       -  28/9/81 - 15/7/83
Dr. F. Schindeler   -  1/1/84  - 28/5/85
Mr. J.O. Alabi       -  29/5/85 - date
1.   Prof.  M.O.  Ijere (Chairman), Dr. Adetunji, Mr. 0. Awoyemi,
Prof. S.K.T. Williams, Dr. M.J. Balogun, Chief O.P.J.
Oyaide, Prof. J.0. Ogunlade,       Dr. M.R. Rasa and Mr. J.0.
Alabi (Director).



- 22 -
In spite of these changes the development of the Institute
ran very smoothly throughout the period.
3.7 On 22 May, 1987, the first Board of Governors set up in
accordance  with  the  Federal  Government  Decree  No.   37
establishing ARMTI was made up of:
1. Mr. 'Dotun oyewole (Chairman)
2. Mr. J.O. Olajide
3. Major M.I. Ideho (Rtd)
4. Engr. I.M. Ningi
S. Dr. A. Mustapha
6. Chief O.F.J. Oyaide
7. Mr. J.O. Alabi - Director, ARMTI
3.8 The Head of State during the official opening of the new
campus on March 23, 1988 openly expressed satisfaction with
the Advisory Committee, the Board of Governors and the
Director   and  management  staff  of  ARMTI  and  the   ARA
Consultants for jobs very well done.
Institute Orqanisation
3.9 The organisation drawn up by the appraisal report provided
for a Board of Governors but anticipated 2 heads of
Departments   - Teaching   Department   and   Administrative
Department which would be reporting to the Director of the
Institute.   There was of course,  provision for  Evaluation
and Advisory Groups.



- 23 -
3.10 In January 1.985. there were 3 Departments and 2 Divisions
reporting directly to the Director. These were:
- The Management Trair.ing Department;
- The Special Studies and Technical Services Department (an
enlarqement of -the scope and responsibilities of the
Learning Resources);
-  The Administrat1ve Department;
-  The  fuman  Resources  Division,   Public  Relations  and
Iaternal    Audit;
- The Works and Maintenance Services Division.
3.11 Recently the organisation has been further  amended.  There
are now 3 Departments, 11 Divisions and 6 Units within the
Institute.   The heads of the 3 Departments, the head of the
Accounts Division and those of Internal Audit and Public
Relations report directly to the Director of ARKTT.   In all
these changes, the emphasis was on the main Institute's
training  functions.   All other Departments, Divisions and
Units could only view themselves as providing services for
the success of the training function of the Institute.
Staffing
3.12 The ultimate objective of the FMG was to have an all
Nigerian   staff  at  the  Institute.    initially   however
consultants came in under the contract with ARA to assist in
the  establishment  and  in  recruitment  and  training   of
Nigerian staff. Thus, in the first 6 years of the existence
of the Institute there were 2 broad categories of staff,



- 24 -
Consultants irnd Nigerian staff.
Consultants
3.13 Up  till 1984,  there' were 6 ARA Consultants - the Director#
Three Senior Trainirg Specialists, a Senior PSedia Specialist
and an Administrative Secretary.   In 1q85,  the nubr  was
reduced to 4, and for various just .fiable reasons om
Consultant (senior Training Specialist - General Managemest)
remained  in  post  1nlil-r-April,  1988.   Total  man  yers3
consumed by ARA Consultants only slightly exceeded the
appraisal  report provision of 20 man  years.   in  additiOB
there were 16 ARA Consultants who worked for ARMTI for short
periods of time.
N gerian Staff: Senior staff (Grade Level 10 and above)
3.14 The  recruitment of senior staff started in 1981 and by  th
end  of  the year there were 4 staff members in  post.   Sb
numaber grew to 10 at the end of 1982 and remained at this
level until December 1984.   At present (October 1968) there
are 82 senior staff on the payroll of the Institute. Ihey
are assigned to duties as shown below:
Director's office including accounts, internal audit a
PRO                            -            13
Administration                 -            24
Management Training            -            27
SS & TS                        -            18
TOTAL                       =            82



- 25 _
Other Staff (Levels 1 - 9)
3.15 The recruitment of staff into the junior cadre coamenced at
about the same time as for senior staff and the number has
grown steadily over time.  At present there are  altogether.
212 staff levels 1 to 9. The present staff strength (senior
&  junior) in the different categories is 294.  Appendix  1
shows the lisit of senior staff from grade level 10 and above
including their years of service and official positions on
the employment of ARMTI.
Staff Development
3.16 in order to build up a core of well trained and. motivated
staff there is a written policy on staff development which
gives varying degrees of support for staff to undergo
courses  of  training  locally  or  abroad.   For training
directly related to job performanceg full financial support
is given i.e.  payment of salary, tuition fees, travel coais
and  estacode.  Training that is relevant to ehcing  job
performance but is -ut required by the InstLtute only
attracts  salary for the period of training.   For  training
unrelated to the requirements of the job, leave without pay
May be granted.
3.17 In  addition to rules concerning appropriate behaviour when
undergoing training there is a bonding arrangement for staff
On  long courses.   The bond requires that the staff member
serves 2 years for every year of support during training or



- 26 -
refund the training expenses.
3.18 Staff development is also provided through counterpart
training, on the job instruction, special courses offered
within   ARMTI  and  attendance  at  some   other   Nigerian
Institutions.
3.19 In the period from 1981 to September 1988 ARMTI staff at all
levels !have benefitted from attendance at training courses
abroad and at home. The courses were of different durations
and   in   different  countries.    As  these  courses  were
specificaily to fill identified gaps in the knowledge/skill
of the staff members most of them were for comparatively
short  periods (4 - 12 weeks).   A few lasted as long  as  6
months and 2 second degree courses lasted I academic year
each. There were altogether 53 staff members who benefitted
from overseas courses at the average rate of 2 trips per
staff  member.   9 of the 53 staff members or 17%  of  these
staff members have left the Institute, 3 of those who left
did 4 trips abroad each. Some 70% of the overseas trips was
to UR, 20% to USA and 10% to other countries.
During the same period there were 71 attendances at  various
courses  held  within the country.   Participation in  these
courses were from the junior staff but a number of senior
staff  attended  some of the courses.   Forty six of the  71
attendances were on courses at ARMTI, 14 at the Ibadan
Polytechnic and 11 at some other Institutions in the
country.



- 27 -
PHYSICAL IMPLE14ENATION
C&Mous Location and Construction
3.21 Ilorin was chosen as the location for the ARMTI because of
the comparative ease of communication with other parts of
the country by road, rail and air. Ilorin is accessible to
research   centres   in   Ibadan,   and   higher   education
institutions  in  many parts of the  country.   It  is  also
readily accessible to the ongoing and projected Agricult'iral
Development Projects (ADPs) from which the majority of
trainees at the Institute would be drawn at least at the
initial  stages.   The  ADPB  would offer  trainees  readily
available opportunities to observe a range of management
situations and practices.
?emgorary Site
3.22 In 1981, the FDRD identified a group of residential houses
being constructed in Ilorin on the road to the permanent
site of the University of Ilorin. It was decided to develop
and equip these buildings and use them as a temporary site
of the Institute. An Estate Agent was appointed to assist
ARA Consultants to speed up the re-structuring of the group
of houses.   By late 1981,  six houses have been taken  over
for ARMTI use and between 1982 and 1984 the number of houses
had increased to 9 which have been rented and adapted for
use  by  the Institute.   A lecture hall and  a  store were
constructed  on  the  site by ARMTI.   By  1985  the  entire
complex would  appear  to a visitor as  premises  initially
prepared for the Institute.



- 28 -
Institute Buildings
3.23 The appraisal report specifiedt
- a total hostel space for 64 trainees in 4 single room
blocks:
- provision  would  be  made  for  space  for  small  group
discussion adjacent to the offices;
-  the  10,000  volume  library  proposed  should  have   20
readers. Office and storage space would be included;
- Dining room would have cafeteria facilities,  kitchen and
food preparation  areas and sufficient facilities for  a
number of guests;
- a common room which would provide a venue for informal
contact and mixing among course participants;
- a small administrative unit in a design that would allow
for any future expansion which could become necessarys
- staff housing on campus would be erected for teaching
staff, senior administrative staff and those key junior
personnel who need to be available at short notice and
those who work unusual hours.
3.24 Accommodation was to be provided for 34 officers:
Director and 2 Administrative staff                     3
Three Senior Training & One Senior Media Specialists   4
Training Specialists# Media Specialist &
Media Technician                                       11
Works Superintendent & Domestic Supervisor              2
Senior Driver, Security Officer, Cooks, Drivers etc.  14
_A



- 29 -
3.25 Sh appraisal report added that while the overall appearance
of the buildings and their setting and layout could help to
create the right attitude to training, it emphasised that
the prestige of the Institute would develop from its
performance and the quality of its staff but not from
sophistication of the buildings.
3.26 The permanent campus site located on the Ilorin-Lokoja road
some 20 km from Ilorin occupies a 160 ha of savannah land
with   common   boundary  with  the  National   Centre   for
Agricultural Mechanization.
3.27 Prior to the signing of the management contract with ARA,
the Federal Government of Nigeria engaged consultants to
design the proposed new campus. The consultants were:
Ardek - Nigeria, - Architects
- Elliott Engineering Group; Structural, Electrical/
Mechanical Civil Engineers and
Femi Popoola and Partners,, Quantity Surveyors.
3.28 In November 1980, the Nigerian consultants had developed
plans  for an extensive campus for which the  cost  estimate
wao about 318.0 million. While the appraisal estimate was
31.6 million).    With the assistance of ARA Consultants the
plan were scaled down and detailed designs worked out
during  1981.   At  its meeting of 16th February,  1982  the
AUITI Advisory Committee reviewed the design at an estimated
cost of 312.2 million.   Because of shortage of  funds,  the
Vederal  Government  requested that the  proposed  f inancial
outlay  be  reduced.    Consequently  in March  1983,   new



- 30 -
recommendations were submitted which called for the award of
contracts for about half of the works earlier proposed
(estimated at N6.7 million). Ten contracts were awarded and
the  official signing took place on 24th November 1983.   By
January 1984, nine of the contractors had started work.
Previously, the Ilorin Agricultural Development Project had
performed some preliminary land clearing and road building
works.
3.30 Three of the ten contracts awarded were for  infrastrUcture,
road, fences  and boreholes.   Two were for staff  quarters
including the Director's house, five ;enior staff houses and
four  pairs of semi detached intermAiate houses.   One was
for an 18 room participants hostel and the remaining four
were for the working core of the campust
- the academic building containing teaching spaces and
trainers' officesa
- the learning resource building, containing a library,
audio-visual studio, printing shop and related spaces;
- the commons building containing kitchen, laundry, dining
rooms and games roomp and
- the administration building and clinic.
3.31 By the end of 1984 several of the contractors who started
early  that  year had nearly completed  their  jobs.   These
include the fences, boreholes, staff houses, the hostel, the
learning resources, administration and clinic buildings.



- 31 -
The commons and the academic buiidings and roads had slowed
down because of lack of funds.
3.32 Three additional works awarded in 1985 i.e. a second hostel,
electrical services and water supply system progressed
satisfactorily  and by October 1986 (a year behind  original
expectation) ARWTI activities transferred from the temporary
accommodation to the permanent campus even though the
commons was not ready for use immediately due largely to
delays from the contractor handling the project.
3.33 As  at  October  1986,  -he  following  buildings  had  been
completed and were being used at the permanent ARMTI campus:
1. Administration building with 31 offices and 30 seater
conference room, staff lounge, store and toilets;
2.  Management Training building with 26 offices,  3  thirty
seater classrcoms, 1 lecture auditorium, 6 syndicate
rooms, 6  seminar rooms,  1 staff lounge,  3 stores  and
toilets;
3. Special Studies & Technical Services building with 12
offices, 1 recording studio, 1 Printing shop, 7 stores,
1 dark room, 1 library, 1 reading room, 1 conference
room, audio-visual room, control room and toilets;
4.  Clinic  with 1 doctor's room,  2. examination  rooms,  1
pharmacy, 1 nurse's station, 1 ward, 1 waiting room and
toilets;



- 32 -
5. One hostel for 18 trainees i.e. 18 rooms equipped with
toilet facilities;
6. The Director's House;
7. 5 Type A Quarters for Senior staff:
8. 8 Type C houses - 3 bedroom bungalows joined in pairs.
The other buildings, whose contracts were awarded at the
same time -a the above could not be completed on time for
various reasons most often financial but sometimes due to
failures of contractors.
3.34 As at September 1988 the following additional buildings and
services have been completed:
Commons
Conference Hall
Hostels 2 & 3
Maintenance complex
Stores
Production Centre for SS&TS
Staff school
Connecting electricity supply to NEPA Grid
Roads
Jobs currently in progress include:
(a) External mechanical works in connection with water
supply, water treatment and service;
(b) External electrical including telephone connections and
a PABX.



- 33 -
!~~.
4t
C 1Sttg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 34 -
3.35 By  original  Federal Government and WJorld  Bank  agreement,
World Bank loan was not intended to be used for the erection
of buildings especially as these do not conform to World
Bank  specification of size of buildings.   The downturn  in
the country's economy necessitated a request for World Bank
assistance  in completing already started  buildings.   This
request was eventually accepted by the World Bank.
3.36 The undermentioned buildings which form part of the campus
design are still to be erected:
Type B Staff quarters
TypeC "
Type D
Labour line
Hostels
Senior Trainee Chalets
Recreational facilitics
Learnina Resources/SS&TS
3.37 At the time of project appraisal, provision was made for an
Audio Visual  Unit  as  an  essential  support  to   modern
management teaching method.   The Unit was to be headed by a
Senior Media Specialist (initially one of the 6 provided for
under  the  contract with  ARA Consultants)  whto  would  be
directly responsible to the Director but would work closely
with the teaching staff in the preparation of audio visual
materials   required  for  specific  training  modules.   A
Nigerian senior staff was to be trained to take over the
duties of the unit from the ARA Specialist.   He would  work
with 2 technicians.



- 35 _
AGRICULTURAL & RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
TABLE 2: CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT
Structures
Administrative Block and Clinic
Management Training Block                           l,.:.C8
88 & TS                                               .
Stores                                      -          95.67
Type A Houses and Director's House          -         9C,2.31
Fencing                                     -         247.00
Type C Houses                               -         72^.56
Electrical Works                            -         ,,3.31
Mechanical Works                            -         t91.'4
Roads                                       -       ' ':  94
Participant Block 1                         -         4,v.vu
Participant Blocs 2                         -         4*.43
Participant Block 3                         -         3?  '4
Conference Hall                             -         333.l1d
Production Centre                           -         bJ.33
Primary School                              -         291.95
Work in Progress                            -       1,793.07
TOTAL                                   12,786.8.



- 36 -
3.38 The Audio Visual Unit has grown tremendously beyond the
appraisal concept into a full department cf Special Studies
and Technical Services (SS&TS) in which the Audio Visual
Unit is a part of several functions being performed by the
department.   It  is  headed  by an Assistant  Director  who
reports directly to the Director. There are 3 divisions and
1 unit,
- Learning Resources Division
-  Technical.. Information,   Research   &   Statistics
Division:.
- Conference and Publications Division
-  The Library.-Unit.
3.39 Organisation of seminars, symposia and ARMTI Annual Lectures
are organised in this Department which is also concerned
with research, statistics and course evaluations.
3.40 The ARA Senior Media Specialist was in post in July 1981 and
a month later the Media Specialist, the first Nigertan
senior staff to be recruited by ARMTI was employed.
3.41 The SS&TS had two initial problems which hindered an early
take  off.   These were availability of suitable staff and a
comparatively long waiting time for equipment to arrive.
These problems have been solved.
3.42 The list of equipment now in use is attached as appendix I1
to this report.



- 37 -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN 1719 UN1
CHAPTER IV
PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
4.0 This section provides an account of project achievements
since  its inception in January 19. to, December  1987, and
w%enever possible up to September 1988 when the disbursement
of World Bank funds ended.
Traininq Needs Studies
4.1  Under the terms of the loan agreement,  ARA Consultants were
required by the FMG to assist in ARMTI Training Needs Survey
designed to assess the training needs of the probable
clients   in  the  agriculture  and   rural   sector.    ARA
Consultants in collaboration with professors from Nigerian
Universities  completeu  the f.r   ' 6raining -..eds study  and
published the report in September 1981.
4.2 The courses offered by ARMTI, from inception were based
primarily on the findings of the Needs Study, amended from
time  to   time on the basis of frequent course  evaluation,
and the expressed needs of consumers.
4.3 By 1987, six years after the first training needs study, it
was felt a review of the training needs was necessary
especially  as  tremendous changes had taken place   in  the
socio-economic climate of the country since the first study



took  place.    Consequent  on. the  changes,  the  FMG  has
introduced new policies and programmes in:^ndcd to cope with
the  economic problem of the country.   These  policies  and
programmes would no doubt have far reaching effects on the
agriculture and rural sector of the Nigerian economy.
4.4  A  second  Training  Needs  Study team was  set  up  by  the
Director  of ARKTI in July 1987 with a view to reviewing the
existing ARMTI programmes to assess their adequacy or
otherwise in the light of changes in the sector being served
by ARMTI and to recommend necessary modifications in the
training programmes.
4.5  Apart  from the input from the last of the 6 ARA  Consultant
who was still in post at the time of the report, and two
short term ARA Consultants the entire survey and report were
completed   using   Nigerian  professors   of  Agricultural
Economics, Experienceu .riculturalists now operating in the
private sector, Directors and staff of Federal Parastatals
and a number of senior ARMTI staff.
4.6 The report was published in a summary volume and two other
volumes.   The summary volume gave the findings of the  team
and its relevant recommenda-ions.
Volume I: Macro Issues in Nigeria'a Agricultural Sector for
ARMTI's management training priorities.
VolumeIIs Report of Training Needs Survey.



- 39 -
The report which was highly praised by the chairman of ARMTI
Board of Governors and by the Director of ARM!T was also
favourably commentcd on by the World Bank.
The conclusions and recommendations arrived at in the
study are presented as appendix IV to this report.
Training programme for 1988 reflects the adoption of some of
these recommendations.
MANAGEMENT TRAINING
4.7  AR4TI was  established to strengthen managerial ability  of
Nigerian  managers  involved  in the  agriculture   &  rural
sector of the economy.   To achieve this laudable  objective
it was requested to run courses for three levels of managers
namely top managers (GL 14 and above), middle managers (GL
10-13) and junior managers (GL 07-09). Courses were also to
be run specifically for trainers who are mainly junior
managers   and   who  are  supposed  to  train  first   line
supervisors  within  their  organisations.   The multiplier
effect of their training is supposed to increase the numbers
effectively reached by ARM4TI.
4.8 The achievement of the Institute with respect to training
will cover the period from 1982-1987.   The first course  of
the  Institute  was run is February 1982.   It was known  as
Management  Planning & Control.  Since then the  number of
courses has increased.
At present the Institute offers 36 regular courses on
agricultural management, divided into 4 divisions:



-40-
• General Management
* Agricultural Project Management
* Financial Management
* Data Processing and Diploma Programme.
Within each of the four divisions, courses have been
developed 4n line with the findings of training needs study.
Each provides courses for top, middle and junior levels of
management with the bulk of courses offered at the middle
and junior levels, which is consistent with the findings of
the needs study. (See table 3).
4.9  The  areas  of  management  skills  in which  training   is
generally required were established at appraisal under the
broad headings of Planning, Finance & Budgeting, Goal
Setting,  Monitoring,   Administration,   Decision  Making,
Influencing   and   Negotiating.    It   also   noted   that
requirements for these various skills are generally similar
at different management levels within any organisation. The
requirements are however much broader in scope the higher
the level of management and complexity of organisation.
In designing ARMTI's courses these requirements were taken
into consideration as shown in table 3.
Some of these courses were developed on moduler basis by the
consultants employed by the FMG in the early years of the
Project.



- 41 -
4.10 The training approach is the same as that recommended in the
appraisal  report.    The  training  is  job  specific   and
practical,  combining lectures with case studies, workshops,
training  exercises etc.   The teaching method also includes
dividing the trainees into small groups to allow for
participation and individual discovery and experience, as
well as feedback to the trainer.
4.11 Since inception of the Institute a total of 4,773 trainees
have been admitted and trained in the various courses
outlined in table 3 as at December 1987.   An additional 708
have  been  trained up to September 1988.   The table  shows
that there has been a gradual increase in annual enrollment
from  1982  (441 trainees) to 1987  (1,409  trainees).   The
figure  of  4,773 gives an average annual enrollment of  795
trainees by the Institute.   This performance surpasses  the
projected   annual   enrollment  figure  of   558   trainees
stipulated in the appraisal report by 42%.
4.12 With respect to the multiplier effect that ARMTI's training
programme is expected to have through the Training for
Trainers (T1T) course one could assert that the Institute
has  done creditably well in this area.   Table 3  indicates
that a total of 151 manpower and training officers of the
ADPs  or an annual average of 38 officers attended  the  TFT
course  from 1984-1987.   This category c' officers,  mainly
second line supervisors were expected to train the first
line supervisors in their respective organisations. If each
of the second line supervisors reached an average of ten



- 42 -
first line supervisors in the course of every one of the
years subsequent to their training at ARMTI a total of 4,250
or  an annual average of-1,510 first line supervisors  would
have  been  reached during  1984-1987  period.   Again,  the
annual average figure of 1,510 first line supervisors
exceeds by wide margin the annual target of 563 in the
appraisal report (Annex 1 1,09).  Conservatively,  if  only
two-thirds   of  the  second  line  supervisors  had  actual-
training responsibilities then a total of 2,805 or an annual
average of 996 first line supervisors would have been
reached.   There is therefore,  no doubt that the multiplier
effect of the training programme of the Institute has been
achieved and felt.
4.13 The training.capacity of the new campus which the Institute
moved into in October, 1986 is estimated at 3,600 trainee-
weeks annually.   But in 1987,  the actual training capacity
utilised was 2,401 or 66% of total capacity for on-campus
training. Thus there could be many more trainees that could
be admitted and trained on campus, and the capacity for away
and in-house courses are tremendous and could only be
limited by staff availability and funding.
4.14 in  terms of participation by states,  Kwara State  had  thq
highest number of trainees (817) and this may be attributed
to its proximity to the Institute.  It is followed by Kaduna
(421),  Bauchi  (374),  Rano (369) and Sokoto  (360).   This
position may also be attributed to the fact that the first



- 43 -
set of ADPs (Gombe, Funtua and Gusau) originated from these
States.   Another factor is that these ADPs have since  gone
statewide.   The high number of participants from Oyo, Ogun,
Ondo and Bendel States may also be attributed to proximity
of  these states to the Institute.   The least participation
came  from  States  whose ADPs are relatively  new  such  as
Anambra, Imo, Katsina, Rivers, Cross River and Benue.



AELEt -    mSR OF ThR?iCiPAUYs P8R COR   PER YTRR
- L !Yiiii!1K &IBVEL31-11 _1211
S                   a ~~~~KUMRWU &I=iya FM                               a      a       
/9O.      C COURSE CODE                   COMBS TITLE               1982 s 983 s 1984 t98S   19986 t 198- 1 TOAL
a GL 0?-09 (SUPBRVISORS)     s                                      a t       s      s          a s
1.  t       ARM 101                Extension Supervision          a 91  *  70  s 69  a 48  z 77  s t1  s 436
2.  a        MM 102               s Gen. Mgt. for Junior managers:  43  a  ,9  s 62  a 68  a 72  s 7'  a 374
3.  s       ARM 103                Training for Trainers                 I s    s 52  t 42  s 34  s  3  a 151
4.  a       AM 104                sBasic Aot. & Finanoc           s      s      s      a 42  s 43      .1      96
5.  I                             I Princ. of Data Coll. & Mgt.   t      I      : 19  s   *          s a       19           5"
I                                                            S      I             S                                     0- 35
6.  s                             s Refresher Course tIADP)       s      s             a      a      a 99  S  99            1
7.  a                             a Basic Training for ARMTI      a      a      s      a      s      s      a
a                            s  Drivers                      t Is  s       S      S                        i s 18
12&  10-13 (MIDDLE MANAGNENT)t                               s      a      a      s      a      s      t
8.  I       ARM 200               s nt. Gen. Mgt for MiaL Ma.,ager;*     a  8  s 21  a 22  a 48  a          *  99
*              *                                                    a s           a s  s  t            S
9.  a       ARM 210               a -,tore*; Management           s 37  a  .5  a 33  s 31  a 120    I 1S0    416
10.  a       ARM 211               I Project Planning I 8ppraisal  S 41  a 24  a 15  a 12  a 19  a .34  a 145
:                            3                               3       3     £      3      8      *      3
11.  s       ARM 212               sAgric. Marketing               a  5  a 10  s 16  a 13  a 11  s 20           7 7S
S                            *                               *      S      *      *      3      t      S
12.         1aRM 213               sFarm Management                      Is 14    23    30    32   1S    114
1                              t          e                         $        2     t      t       2      1
13.  a       1883214               s Mgt. of xtension 8ervicos    a       a 20  a 25  a 17  a 19  s 23  a 104
*                            S                               a      a      a      a      I      S      S



p t  *-. 
S/NO. t    COURSE CODE              I      COURSE TITLE            : 1902 s 1983 s 1984 s 1985 s 1986 s 1987 a TOTAL
14.  *       ARM 216               : Pinance for Fin. Officers    * 10  * 67  s 66  : 47  a 23   S 53  a 266
15.  I       ARM 217                i Internal Auditing           s      a 15  : 19  s 19  t 25  a 40    118
16.  s       ARM 218               s Acct. & Finance for Non-Pin.  s     s      s      s      2             ;
I                            I   Managers                    :29    17:  48    58    62 :  82    296
17.  t       ARM 219               t Report and Memo Writing      a 44  t 17  2 32        7 74  a 19  1205     391
t                            *                               t      S      2      S      :      t
18.  a       ARM 220              sProject Iuplem. & Control      t  6  :       S 13  s 18  * 22  t 12          71
19.  *       ARN 221               : Training Needs Analysis      t 23  : 42  s 37  t 21  s 21  t 21    165
20.  *       ARM 222              t Agric. Credit Managemett      t      2      t      t 27  s 21  *  6         54
21.  s       ARM 223              tProject Monitoring & Eval.    2       t      S      a 48  s 49  t 87  t 184
22.           " AR 224             a Mgt. of Interpersonal Relation:     *      *      *      a 33  a  8  s  41
23.  i       ARM 22S.             a Estab. & Mgt. of Cooperatives :      *      2      a      a 10  t  9  a  19
2                            I                               I      a      3                    Is1a 
24.  2       AR 226               : Introd. to Elect. Data Proc.  I      I      S                50  t 49  s  99
t                            s                               I      t      I      t      I      t      2
25.  a       ARK 227              t Diploma in Agric. Management  t      t      t      t      2 15  t 19  t  34
26.  t                            : International Procurement     a      *      t      a      a 11  s       s  11
27.  S                             tRural Development             t          8         2      2 t       27  *  27



t                            I                               t            .  t           a      a      a
S/NO. s    COURSE CODE                     COURSE TITLE             * 1982 s 1983 s 1984 t 1985  196   1967 t MOTAL
a GL.14 & ABOVE (TOP MANAOGMEbT)                             a      a      a       s     t             t
a                            t                               a      a      a       a     a             £ 
28.  :       ARM 301               : Management Planning & Control a 30  t 21  a 91  a 67  t 26  a 48  a 283
t                                                             t                           I                     s
29.  s       ARM 302                Finance for Senior Managers   a         a 8  s  8  i 13  * 25  : 32         e 86
30.  :       ARM 304               : 7dv. Fin. Management                        t 28  t 13  : 13    12  s  66
31.  s       ARM 305               s Man Management                s 64  s 43  t 23  a 32  a 23  s 30  a 215
:                            s                               a      a      a      a      a      1      £
32.  s       ARM 306               s Appr. Workshop for Snr. Planners     I      I      I      a  5  s  S  £  10
33.  s       ARM 307               a Agricultural Investment       I      I      *      s          a 8  t    I   0
34.  i       ARM 308               i Quant. Techns. & Mgt. of Acat.2      t      a      a      a      s  1  s   1
35.  :       ARM 401               a Workshop for Top Managers     s      a      1      3      3 4S  s 48  s  93
36.  a                             : Chief Training Officers       s      *      s      a      a      a 89  t  83
t~~~~~~~~ ~~~ a t                            * S          8   
T O T A L:-                    3441  s 480  :700  :762  z 981  *1409  t 4773
Source - ARMTI's Registry



- 47 -
TABLE 4: NUMBER OF TRAINEES BY LOCATION OF COURSE
1982 - 19i7
COURSE LOCATION :1982 s 1983 : 1984 : 1985 s 1986 : 1987 s TOTAL
__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _   .  .:   :   s___   :  __ _ _ _ _ :  : _ _ _ _ _ _
On Campus       : 261 : 291  s 413 : 465 : 502 : 666  : 2598
Away            : 68:   46:  132:   90:  118:  113:  567
In-House        : 112 : 143 : 155 : 207 : 361 : 630 : 1608
TOTAL      ; 441:  480:  700:  762:  981 :1409   4773
Source - ARMTI's Registry



TABLE Ai PARTJCIPANTS BY ORGANIZATJONS 1982 - 1987
ORGANIZATION                        :     1982    s   1983   s 1984          1985      s 1986        1987    :  TOTAJ.
: No .  O  : No.       5 No . o    :  No.         No.        No.    8a: No.    a
Tederal Ministries 8 Departments   :  65   14.7 s  35   7.3: 120  17.1    80  10.5 s 48   4.9: 160  11.4s 508  10.6
s             s           s           :           :           s           s
State Ministries & Departments      :  63   14.3 a 32   6.7:  67   9.6    73   9.6 : 85   8.7: 367  26  : 687  14.4
s a                       :           :           :                 :                     I 
Agricultural Development Projects  : 212   48.1 : 307  64  : 345  49.3 : 429  56.3    574  ;.S.5S 720  51  22587  54.2    >
2             :           a     t        :                    .           a              0
River Basin Development Authorities:   24    5.5 s 29   6  s 54   7.7 s 50   6.6 s 57   b.8:  31   2  : 245   5.1
Financial Institutions              s    5    1.1 a   1   0;2s  12   1.7 s 59   7.7 t 20   2.0s  25   2.2: 122   2.6
Research and Training Institutionas     38    8.6    5 56  11.7:  70  10   s 12   1.6 t  32   3.3:  34   2.4: 242   5.1
Private                             a  34    7.7 s  20  4.2 s 32   4.6 s 59   7.7 t 165  16.8.  72   5  : 382   8.0
TOTAL                        s 441    100 a 480  100   700   100 s 762   100 t 981   100:1409   100l 4773   100
SOuse* - ARMY!'9 Registry



TRAINEES BY CLIENT ORGANIZATION (1982 - 1987)
40-~~-
.   .
80  -~~~~~~   -3
it~ f g                                        1
*,  -f                                                                          .fo1-  l OE- INf l
99t   .  z3B3         19          1985          6;i



- 50 -
TABLE 6:  L982 _ 1987 ENROLLMENT BY MANAGEMENT POSITION
MANAGCEMENT POSITION: 1982  : 1983 : 1984 : 1985 s 1986 : 1987 : TOTAIL
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ S  S    :__ _ : _ _   :  : *
:   :     :      S       S   :      :
Top Managers         :  94   : 72  : 150  : 125  s 145  : 265  :  851
:(100)  :(-23) : (59) : (33) : (54) : (182):
Middle Managers      : 195   : 279  : 348  ; 437  : 610  : 860  : 2729
:(100)  : (43) : (25) :(124) :(213) :(341) :
Junior Managers      : 152   : 129  : 202  : 200  : 226  : 284  : 1193
:(100)  :(-15) : (33) : (32) : (49) : (87) :
TOTAL          : 441   : 480    700  : 762  : 981  :1409  : 4773
Source - ARBTI'se Registry



- 51 -
4.15 Although the appraisal report-identified the LGA as a ready
market for ARMTI since the FMG is assigning responsibilities
for   managing   rural   development   projects   to   them,
participation  of LGAs in ARMTI courses did not start  until
1987  when  courses  relevant  to  thei-r  staff  were  first
introduced.   Additional  marketing efforts would have to be
undertaken to make LGAs recognise that ARMTI courses are not
only relevant to their needs but ARMTI staff and  facilities
are at their disposal so that apart from attendance at
scheduled courses, LGAs would be aole to request for in-
house courses that would be most appropriate for their
staff.
4.16 The appraisal report suggested on-the-job follow-up of
trainees by ARMTI training staff as a way of maximising
effectiveness of training. It recommended that each trainee
be followed up on the Job to ensure that trainees practise
El
the new  techniques  acquired.   Alternatively,  groups  of
trainees are to be assembled at convenient points to discuss
individuals' successes and difficulties in applying their
training Advice and further instructions are to be given by
the trainers.
4.17 In 1986,  the only year for which data are available,  ARMTI
training staff spent 5.1% c; their total available time in
follow-up.   This amount of time is very low considering the
fact that the appraisal report stipulated that considerable
amount of training staff time will be needed in follow-up of
trainees.   Moreover, modern management training places much



- 52 -
emphasis oa practising of skills than on acquisition of
knowledge.   Reasons  adduced  for poor performance in  this
area are inadequate finance to lodge or feed teaching staff,
and inadequate vehicles to transport them.
Consultancies
4.18 In additicn to the regular training activities, ARMTI offers
a  consultancyv  services  to  its  clients.   This  unit  is
designed to assist client oganisations with such tasks as
training  i.eeds   analysis,   organisational   development,
feasibility studies and management audits.   Consultants are
drawn from members of the ARMTI faculty as well as outsiders
and  also  fr2m  the  consulting  unit  itself,   which  was
initially based in SS&TS department but later moved to
Management  Training  department  in  the  mid  1987.    The
intention is that the information and experiences gained
during consultancy will be fed back into the training
programme.
4.19 Todate, the Institute has rendered the following services:
(a) Conducted PRTC workshop for:
Benue ADP
Kaduna ADP
Oyo North ADP
Niger Valley Agro Industries Ltd., Bendel State
Bendel ADP.



- 53 _
(b)  Feasibility Studies:
-  Ifedapo Food Industries Limited, Omuo-Ekiti
- Owolere Food Processing industries, Ido-Ekiti
-  Ekiti  Worth  Food  Storage  &  Preservation  Industries,
Ikole-Ekiti
- Kwara State Farmers Council.
4.20 There are about five other consultancy assisgnments still in
the  pipe-line.    The  market  for  consultancy  is  rather
limited. Only the ADPs request for training needs analysis.
People who need feasibility report to support application
for bank loans would prefer to request ARMTI to prepare such
reports for them at no cost.  Most customers have withdrawn
soon after they have received proposals showing how much
they would  be  required to pay.   It is  hoped  that  this
situation would change.                                                *-
Collaborative Ventures
4,21 It   is   part  of  the  policy  of  ARMTI  to  enter   into
collaborative efforts with institutions of similar or over
lapping interests for mutual benefits.   Below are the names
of institutions with which ARMTI has had collaborative
ventures:
1. - Project Planninq Centre, University of Bradford,
England
There is a memorandum of agreement and exchanging
faculty   members  and  materialst   development  of
trainers and collaboration on development of new
course.



- 54 -
2.      Centre for Management Development, Lagos
There is an intention to jointly offer a course
entitled 'Process Consultation in the Agricultural
Sector' each year.
3.  -  African Development Bank (ADB), Abidian Ivory Coast
Two trainees were on loan as Consultants for a
period of approximately five months each, over a
total period of eight months. They were involved in
designing and leading courses in Project Management,
Training of Trainers, General Management etc.
4.  -   Federal Aqricultural Coordinatina Unit (FACU)
lbadan
There   is   collaboration  on   courses   such   as
Monitoring and Evaluation.
5.  -  Agricultural Project Monitorinq & Evaluating
Unit (APMEPU) Kaduna
Collaboration with Monitoring and Evaluation and
Basic Statistics and joint courses in these areas:
(a) Workshop for Federal Department of Agric.
Cooperatives
(c)  Workshop on Rural Development for DFRRI, Ibadan
(d) Risonpalm - Recruitment section of training officers
- Organised training for trainers' course.
(e) Nigerian Breweries Ltd. - Course for Tractor
Operators and mechanics.
6.  - Asian Institute of Manaoement, PhilipPines
Collaboration   on  an  International  workshop  for
people   involved in the management of  Agricultural
Management   Training   Institutes   in   develv?,ing
countries.



- 55 _
7. - Federal Department of Rural Development
(Home Economics)
ARMTI  is collaborating with Home Economics Unit  of
FDRD on the orgtnisation of seminars.
8.  -  UniversitX of Ilorin. Ilorin
A   nine  month  diploma  course   in   agricultural
management is jointly run on ARMTI campus for
participants drawn from all the ADPs, River Basins,
Ministries of Agriculture and other agro-industrial
allied organisations.
9.  -  Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
Joint workshop and seminars are organised.   So  far
there had been 2 workshops -
-  "Agricultural  Marketing"   tailored  to * suit   the
grassroot agricultural marketing persons or groups
(October 1987).
-  "Cost    LLective    Manageieslt.   of    Agriculture
Mechanization and Infrastructure" (October, 1988).
10.  - ARA Consultants, Toronto Canada
The ARA is a regular source for supply of short term
consultants   in    various   fields   of   expertise
considered desirable at any time.
11. - Federal DeRartment of Agricultural Cooperatives,
Lagos
Joint conferences on ARMTI campus.



56 -
12.  -  Central Planning Dejartment. Lasos
ARMTI   arranged   a  course  and  a workshop   for
monitoring and evaluation of projects for federal
field officers of all departments of Agricultural
Ministry.
13.  - The Central Bank of Niaeria
A course on Agricultural Credit Management for staff
of Central Bank and Commercial Banks.
14.  -  Commonwealth Secretariat., UK
The Commonwealth Secretariat sponsored a tour of
West Africa to enable ARMTI Director market ARMTI
and   the   outreach   training   programme.      The
secretariat   is   also  sponsoring  a   course   on
Agricultural  Project  Management to          be  run
for participants from other African countries in
1989.
4.22 In addition to the above ARMTI enjoys the support of
agencies like the world Bank, the British Council and the
Canadian International Development Agency.
PROMOTION
4.23 The Public Relations Unit exists to keep clients and the
public at large informed of ARMTI's activities and to
promote  good  relations.   To achieve these objectives  the
unit uses the national press, TV, the production and
distribution of promotional materials, the organisation of



- 57-
opening ceremonies for important events and the arrangement
of courtesy calls and visits by the Director. News releases
and press conferences are used to communicate through the
press  or  simply by  placing  advertisements.   A  progress
report is written for the Director every six months who then
discusses it on television to get national coverage.
4.24 The   Public   Relations  Unit  assists  in  producing  afd
distributing ARMTI NEWS, planners, greeting cards, stickers,
the   annual training  programme  and   other   promotional
material.
4.25 More needs to be done on the promotion of ARMTI in order to
reach the local governments, private sector agricultural
enterprises, banks and other credit institutions lending
money  to  the  agricultural sector.   Lack of  funds  is  a
limiting factor to this aspect of promotional activities.
4.26 Recently the Director of the Institute toured the English
speaking West African countries to get those concerned aware
of the existence of ARPTI, the only institution of its kind
in the West African Region, and to discuss areas in which
ARBTI facilities and trainers can help in uplifting the
management skills of their managers in the agriculture and
rural sector.
SPECIAL STUDIES AND TBCHNICAL SERVICES
4.27 The department is headed by an Assistant Director who
reports directly to the Director.
This Department is primarily made up of 3 Divisions namelys



- 58 -
(1) Learning Resources - which in turn consists of tbe
following units:
Mi) Audio Visual
(ii) Library
(iii)  Printing
(iv)  Re-production
(v)  Graphics
(2) Research, Statistics & Technical Information and
(3) Publications, Seminars & Conferences.
(4) Consultancy - Until mid 1987.
LEARNING RESOURCES DIVISION
The achievements of this division is listed according to units.
Audio-Visual Unit:
4.28 This unit has:
ti)  produced or has in stock variety of training programes
on video:
!rnP                                   No.
-  Locally produced films              1S
-  Foreign: 16mm films                 12
Training videos            14
(ii)  Has  recorded  over  30  ARMTI  ceremonies,  seminars,
workshops, Graduation Ceremonies and special eventst
(iii)  Writt^  ---- for  A* t -     triining programmes  and
other productions;                                                ;
(iv) Produced supporting programmes for all ARMTI seminars
and workshops;
(v) Supply of training material, to the training pointsa



- 59 -
(vi) Produced tape/slide programmes especially for public
relations purposes;
(vii) Served as Resource Personnel in Training activitiest
(viii) Provide micro-teaching video play back facilities;
(ix) Installed all studio and video equipments
(x) Maintenance   services   on   all   the   Audio-visual
equipments including the Nicro-computers and photo-
Copy machines;
(xii) Installed  all  the  Micro-computers   and  peripheral
equipments.
Library Unit:
4.29 This unit which started operation in October 1982 had been
offering the following servicess
- Readers services8
- Reference services;
- Current awareness and library promotion;
- Cataloguing;
- Classification;
- Stock selectiont
- Selective dissemination of information;
- Library co-operation.
The stvck in the Library as at December 1987, consisted of:
Books                    - 1,773
"on-books (in volumes)   -   932
(Reports, Journals etc.)
-   '76



- 60 -
Printing Unit:
4.30 The  ROTO Offset printing michine wac _r.stalled in 1984  and
the  MO  Offset printing machine was installed  in  January,
1987.   Before this time, most printing activities were done
off campus although under the supervision of the unit.   The
unit has been responsible for printing:
(i) all course brochures, and -osters used by the Institute;
(ii)  ARMTI  Year  Planners,  training  programmes,  invitation
cards and programmes for ARMTI ctremonies;
(iii)  complimentary  cards  for staff,  ARMTI  greeting  cards,
identity cards for staff, course participants and name
tags for ARMTI ceremonies;
(iv)  annual lecture booklets,  covers for courses and courses'
books-of-reading, and ARNTI News magazine;
(v) stickers and ARMTI bus tickets;
(vi)  ARMTI   flat-files   and  #oI.ders   for   various   ARKTI
ceremonies;
(vii) letter-heads for ARNTI internal memo pads, action notes
and ARMTI course attendance certificates;
(viii) all stores requisition books and stores issue booklets;
(ix)  ARMTI Annual Reports;
(x) BInding of all materials produced by the production and
printing unit.



- 61 -
Production Unit:
4.31 The Production Unit has been offering the following Re-
prographic services:
(i)  duplicating   and  photo-copying of course   materials;
(ii)  seminar papers and other materials;
(iii) workshop materials;
(iv)  annual lecture papers;
(v)  Administrative Documents;
(vi)  speeches and presentations at all AR14TI ceremoniest
Altogether  17,166  course  booklets,   36,750   seminar/workshop
booklets and 6,250 annual lecture booklets have been produced.
Graphics Unit:
4.32 This unit has been responsible for the following activities:
(i) Designing of covers for training programmes (42), ARM4TI
Lecture series (2), ARMTI News and seminar series (4);
(ii)  Designing of ARMTI Course Attendance Certificate, call-
cards (2), letter-heads (2), envelopes, stationery for
the   Advisory  Committee/Board  of   Governors,   Year
Planners (3) and Newspaper Advertisements (20);
(iii) Designing of ARMTI Greeting Cards (2), Brochures (20),
posters (15) and folders for workshops and seminars;
(iv)  Production  and Lamination of staff identity cards (300
yearly), taking and processing of p'blic relation
photo-graphs, preparation of name plates for members of
staff and dignitaries of ARMTI ceremonies (200) and
preparation of banners for ARMTI ceremonies (100);



_ 62 -
(v)  Production of transparencies for use on Over-head  (500
yearly)   Projectors   during  training  sessions   and
illustrations for video productions:
(vi) Setting up and manning of ARNTI displays and liaison
with external printers whenever required (2);
(vii) Preparation of paste-ups for all materials to be
printed;
(viii) Covering of ARMTI ceremonies by photograph.
RESEARCH, STATISTICS & TECHNICAL INFORMATION DIVISION
4.33 The achievements of this division are as follows:
fi) Preparation of background information of all participants
to ARMTI courses through the administration of pre-course
Evaluation  Forms,  one hundred and thirty  reports  were
written between 1984 and 1987;
(ii)  Preparation  of  Course  Evaluation Reports for  all  the
courses organized by ARMTI through the administration of
end-of-course Evaluation Forms, one hundred and fifty
five reports were written between 1984 and 1987;
(iii)  In  charge  of all background researches  for  all ARMTI
seminars  and  workshops.   The following researches  had
been conducted, data assembled analysed and written up:
(a) The Role of Non-Agricultural Private Sector in
Nigerian Agriculture, 1983;



- 63 -
(b) Pinancing Agricultural DeVelopmt In othor States,
1903 i
(4C) Nature and Variety of %eord %eeping in Nigerian
Agriculture, 19641
(4)  Agricultural ProdeotiVity - a C"e study of  Sokoto
Rie&    River   Basin    Development       Authority
(Unpublished), 1965.
(iv) Carried  out In-boue stndis/researches as  required  by
ARMTZ management;
LIV) Providled statistical support in the ARm Training I
(vi) Developed  and  dlivered  a six-v"k  statistics   ourse
titled  l*rinciples of Data Colletion      anag t for
F?eld Supervisr  Staff ;
(vii) PDveloped    a   coure   titled    Agricultural  Credit
ana ament" for Agricultural Credit Officers in Financial
lnstitutionsg
iti) Development  of  a  Data-bate of participants  to  Ahm
cour"s s
(is)  Offered  statistical/Computer  consultay  services   to
other deprtM=nts in the ARMTI;
(r)  Prpared  a  Statistical Overview of Asm   courses  from
1962-966
(xi)   erved      raoo    personel  in   AEXTI  training
activities.



- 64 -
PUBLICATIONS, SENINARS & CONFERENCES DIVISION
4.34 Seminars:
To date, eleven seminars have been successfully organized
by this division. They are:
(i) Managing Agricultural Development in Nigeria - July 22-24
1981 - 6 papers;
(ii) Cost Reduction and Cost Control Methods - November 15-16,
1982 - 7 papers;
(iii)  Financing Agricultural Development in Nigeria - April 18-
20, 1983 - 21 papers, 81 participants;
(iv) Rural Nigeria: Development and Quality of Life - June 6-8
1983 (jointly sponsored with the Home Economics unit,
Federal Department of Rural Development) - 30 papers, 95
participants;
(v)  The Private Sector and Nigerian Agricultural  Development
- October 23-25, 1903 - 19 ppercs, 110 participants;
(vi) Record-Keeping and Agro-Statistics Data Banks in Nigeria
- April 23-25, 1984 - 19 papers, 121 participants;
(vii) The Role of TWaditional Rulers and Local Governments in
Nigerian Agriculture, - October 29-31, 1984 - 19 papers,
110 participants;
(viii)  Policies  for the Development of Agricultural  and  Rural
Co-operatives in Nigeria - April 29-May 1, 1985, (Jointly
sponsored   with   Federal Department  of   Agricultural
Cooperatives) - 15 papers, 70 participants;



- 65 -
(ix)  Agricultural  Productivity  in Nigeria  - October  28-30,
1985 (Jointly sponsored with Centre for Agricultural
Productivity, Federal Ministry of Science & Technology) -
15 papers, 100 participants;
(x)  Agricultural Insurance - July 20-22,1987 - 19 papers, 143
participants;
(xi)  Human  Resources Developuesit in the Agricultural & Rural
Sectors - April 28-30, 1987 - 25 papers, 80.
Workshops:
4.35 The workshops organized are:
(i)   International  workshop  on Managing Management  Training
Institutes - 1984;
(ii)   National Agric. Productivity workshop - 1985;
(iii)   ARMTI/NACB  workshop  on Agricultural Loan  Management  -
Kaduna - 130 farmers, 30 bankers - September 11-15, 1986;
(iv)   ARMTI/NACB workshop on Agricultural Marketing - 1987;
Publications:
4.36 To date, this division has been in charge of producing the
following publications:
(a) ARMTI News:
(i) 7 Volumes of ARMTI News have been produced to date.
(b) Annual Lectures Series:
(1) First - Management in Agricultural and Rural Development
(A   Practitioner's  View)  - by   Gen.   Olusegun
Obasanjo (Rtd.) - 1983;



- 66 -
(ii) Second - Strategies in Research on Improved Farming Systems
to facilitate Adaptation - by Prof. Bede Okigbo -
1984;
(iii) Third - Making Agriculture an Attractive Profession - by
Maj. Gen. George A. Innib - 1985;
(iv) Fourth - The Role and Development of the N4gerian Farmer -
by  Alh. Aminu Tijani, Ap2L. , 1986;
(v) Fifth  - International    Organizations       and    Nigerian
Agr.cultural Development: The Case of World Bank
- by Dr. Ishrat Husain - 1987.
(vi) Sixth  - Extension   Services   within  the   strategy   of
Agricultural Development in Nigeria in the 1990s
by Prof. S.K.T. Williams.
(c) Seminar Series:
Nine of the eleven seminars conducted were published.
The list of equipment now in use is attached as appendix to this
report.
MAINTENANCE DIVISION
4.37 The Maintenance Division's main task has been in the area of
Campus  Development.   It  participates  fully  in  all  the
processes   involved   in  award  of  contracts   but   most
importantly in the supervision and evaluation of contract
jobs.
4.38 Apart from supervising contractors, the division undertook
some  building projects with direct labour.   These  include



- 67 -
the erection of the maintenance complex, nain stores,
temporary primary school for staff children which were
completed  a'_ comparatively cheap costs.  The division also
completed  wit> iirect labour part of the commons  when  the
contractor   who   won  the  contract  abandoned   the   job
uncompleted.   The  movement from the temporary site to  the
new campus was handled exclusively by the maintenance
division.
4.39 The landscaping of the new campus remains the responsibility
of the maintenance and the premises is already wearing an
impressive look.   The car park in the main courtyard of the
administration building has been completed.
4.40 The maintenance division is responsible for the water supply
through pumping water from boreholes into tankers which
deliver water to some more than 20 overhead water tanks in
the residential areas as well as the commons and other
buildings.
4.41 The division is also responsible for electricity supply.
This was initially from one 300 KVI and another 600 KVA
generators.   In  the last couple of months the  campus was
connected with the NEPA national grid while the ARMTI
generators serve as standby for the irregular supplies from
UBPA.
4.42 The ARMTI fleet of 35 vehicles and 2 tractors are regularly
maintained by the division which also carries out all
repairs subject to availability of spares.



- 68 -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN 1719 UN1
CHAPTER V
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
5.1  The  total  cost of the project is N47.66 million  which  is
404%  of the estimated cost at appraisal.   This overrun  is
due to several causes.   First,  the design of buildings and
other civil works constructed is substantially larger than
the  appraisal design.   Secondly,  high inflation rate  has
dri7en prices cf imported and local materials substantially
above the prices at appraisal and finally the devaluation of
the naira from W1.0 = US$1.54 at appraisal to the present
rate of W1.0 - US$0.207 means substantial increase in the
naira value of all imported commodities used in the project.
5.2 In US dollar terms, the total project cost is US$28.35
million which is 157.5% of the appraisal estimate of $18.0
million.
5.3 Of the N47.66 million, the Federal Government's contribution
amounts to 129.035 million or 61% of the total cost while
the World Bank contributed $8.96 million or 31% of the
US$28.35 million.   The remaining 8% comes from revenue from
course registrations and renting of facilities.



- 69 -
5.4 The disbursements by the World Bank and the Government of
Nigeria were spread out over the 8 years project period. The
World Bank disbursements terminated at the end of September,
1988.
The summary of actual cost and the schedule of the World
Bank loan are shown in the tables 7 and 8 below.   The break down
of costs is attached in the appendices.



AGRICULTURAL & RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
TABLE 1 SUMMARY OF ACTUAL COST (I 000
Yr.  1   Yr.  2    Yr.  3   Yr.  4   Yr. 5    Yr. 6        Yr. 7   Yr. 8   Total
Buildings          -        -         5.8        -    3,506.2  1,116.0    294.7  7,864.1  12,786.8
Vehicles,
Furniture &
Equipment        510.1    611.4    294.9    201.6       196.5  1,176.7  5,373.1    726.3   9,090.6
Salaries          90.6    488.6    943.4    987.5   1,034.9  1,186.5  1,569,1  1,336.5   7,637.1
Training             -     13.9    296.5    219.9       265.1    749.1    912.1       22.6   2,479.2       o
Consultants      636.7    362.8    422.1   -554.7       280.9    476.0    579.7  2,635.5   5,948.4
Recurrent Costs 433.8    940.3    867.0    902.2   1,026.4  1,201.2  1,473.0  2,877.4   9,721.3
1,671.2  2,417.0  2,829.7  2,865.9   6,310.0  5,905.5 10,201.7 15,462.4  47,663.4
US$           2,473.6  3,577.6  3,789.0  3,518.2   6,670.3  2,275.4  2,405.6  3,646.0  28,355.7
SOURCE:  ARMTI'S ACCOUNTS RECORDS.



- 71 -
AGRICULTURAL & RUA MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
TABLE 8: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMEN  OF BANK LOAN
-   -     ~~(in V.-S. $Mlin            
-------------------------- --------------------------      - 
Fiscal Year      Amount         Couatulative       Balance
1981           0.55             0.55              8.45
1982           0.69             1.24              7.76
1983          1.01              2.25              6.75
1984           1.31             3.56              5.44
1985           1.60             5.16              3.84
1986           0.68             5.84              3.16
1987           2.01             7.85              1.15
1988           1.11             8.96              0.04
SOURCE:  ARL 8 :S ACCOUNTS RECORDS



- 72 -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN 1719 UNI
CHAPTER VI
PERFORMANCE
Project Execution and Management
6.1  The   appraisal  report  provided  for  a  contract  with  a
competent firm, of Consultants to serve as the executing
agency  in the initial stages.   ARA of Toronto,  Canada was
selected fcr this assignment.   Initially, ARA sent suitable
consultants to fill the key positions and recruited and
trained on the job all the Nigerians that took over from
them. Through the effective participation of the ARA
Consultants the project was successfully begun and smoothly
implemented. Apart from the regular long term consultants a
number of short term consultants visited the project to
impart specific skills and accomplished specific tasks.   In
addition, Murray Glow made a number of short calls to the
project.   Everything  considerel  the ARA Consultants  made
worthwhile   contribution  to  the  implementation  of   the
project.
6.2  overall,  project implementation was satisfactory.   After a
slow start, the erection of the new campus was ready for
occupation and the training and allied functions have become
increasingly more effective.



- 73 -
Board of Governors
6.3  Prior to 1987  the Federal mLlitary Government nominated a 9
men  advisorv  caumittei . , mostly from Universities  and
other  instittticns o: higher learning and the Ministry  of
Agriculture  to  advise the administration of ARbITZ  on  the
implementaticon cf the proj.ct.   The advisory committee made
substant4al contributicns to t.he smooth running of the
project  from  its incentin 'intil a Roard of Governors  was
installed.
6.4  In  accordance  with  the oecree which  set  up  ARMTI,  the
Institute is to be operated under the direction of a Board
of  Governors.   A  board  of  Governors  nominated  by  the
President has replaced the advisory committee since 1987.
The board has been very effective and pays attention to
details in the interest of the administration of the
Institute.
Supplies and CoDtracts
6.5  All  contracts for ciVil worKs for the project were  awarded
under local competitive bid iing procedures. All t :Atractors
employed on civil works cortracts except one performed their
jobs  satisfactorily.   The  uncompleted contract had to  be
reawarded to another contractor.
6.6  All  contracts  for vehicles,  farm machinery  and  training
equipment   were  awarded  1.nder  international  competitive
bidding procedures. After an initial delay caused mostly by
Nigerian conditions, all equipment have arrived and have
IB Sul    - lv ' * '     ad  , , *       I



- 74 -
6.7 Procurement of items of food stuff for the Institute's
Catering is done through a combination of contract supplies
and direct procurement.
The Bank
6.8 Between January 1982 and June 1987, fifteen bank supervision
missions  were recorded.   Size of mission varied  from  one
person  mission to 3 member missions.   Mission members made
useful  verbal  comments  which  were  summarised  in   Aide
memoires.
6.9 On the whole the Bank's attitude had been most considerate
and helpful especially in respect to the approval for a more
protracted disbursement of the loan, without which the
project could not have achieved its objectives when it did,



- 75 -
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMBNT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN 1719 UN1
CHAPTER VII
SPECIAL ISSUES AND LESSONS LFARNT
Fees
7.1 The PFG's policy guidelines do not favour the payment of
fees  by participants attending courses at ARMTI.   On  the
other hand the Bank considers it desirable that full fees be
charged.   At  present ARATI charges only for materials used
by and fir the trainees.   While the cost of training  could
be regarded as one of the major contributions the Federal
Government could make to the upgrading of agricultural
productivity  in  the  country,   the  dwindling   financial
allocations being made to the Institute would necessitate
charges up to 50% of training cost.   It is note worthy that
beneficiaries are not in the category of subsistence farmers
who cannot be expected to bear any costs. That is precisely
why extension services are rendered free.
7.2 Government services in Ministries and parastatals are often
provided with budgets for staff training. ARMTI should have
the authority to demand and receive payments for their
services to these institutions.



-76-
Second Campus 
7.3 There is provision in the appraisal report for the erection
of a second campus when the training needs in the sector
exceeds  the capacity of the present facilities.   ARMTI  is
presently contemplating a programme which would expand its
effectiveness  to  other  parts of the country  in what  is
termed  'Regional  Presence".   Apart from the away and  in-
house courses some six centres would be selected where
facilities could be available (without building new ones)
for running courses on the same pattern as on campus
courses.   This would  expand  trainiLJ  capacity  and  the
efficiency  of  staff utilisation several folds.   It  would
however be a culpable waste of scarce manpower and material
resources  to  duplicate  the functions of ARMTI under the
umbrella of a new institution - the proposed national
Institute for Rural Development whose functions would appear
to  duplicat  functions  being  performed  by  one   Federal
Institution  or other.   It is supposed to have the function
for the design and implementation for training and staff
development which are similar to ARMTI's present functions.
Siting of ARMTI Campus
7.4  Those who  participated  in deciding the  location  of  the
campus of ARMTTI must have emphasised the Agriculture rather
than the training function of the Institute and have
therefore decided siting the Institute in mn area suitable
for  agricultural farming enterprise.   The Institute should



- 77-
have been much closer to Ilorin town and would have
benefitted   from  urban  water  supply,   electricity   and
telephone  services.   Water supply costs through  expensive
boreholes   and   water   tankers,   expensive   electricity
generators at high costs of running and the high cost of
transmitting messages without a telephone in the campus are
some of those high cost items which could have been avoided
or at least substantially reduced.
Civil Works Supervision
7.5  Now. ARMTI has on campus staff who can effectively supervise
contractors who win award for construction of civil works.
It would  have  facilitated  more  effective  civil   works
supervision had architects, quantity surveyors etc been
recruited   on  contract  or  supplied  on  secondment  from
appropriate Ministries from the onset of the construction of
Institute civil works.
Release of Funds
7.6  Irregular  release  of  funds  had  caused  delays  in   the
implementation of the development of ARITI project so far.
Progress   would  have  been  more  satisfactory  and  costs
substantially lower had the Federal Government made a bulk
release of funds to a Deposit Account for the development.



- 78 _
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN 1719 UN1
CHAPTER VIXI
CONCLUSION
8.1 At the request of the Federal Government of Nigeria, the
World Bank made available a loan of nine million dollars for
the first phase of the development of a residential campus,
and training facilities for an Institute which would offer
the   much   needed  training  in  the  management  of   the
agriculture and rural sector of the Nigerian  economy.   The
Agricultural    and  Rural Management  Training   Institute
created by a decree No. 37 of 1984 which became effective in
1980 was designed to meet training needs in the agriculture
and rural sector.
8.2 In keeping with the loan agreement and with the consent of
the  WB,  a Canadian firm of Consultants;  ARA accepted  the
offer to supply long term and short term consultancies to
set up the Institute and manage it at its initial stages
during which Nigerian staff would be recruited to continue
the training work.
8.3 A new residential campus was erected and has been in use
since October 1986 but for full development accommodation is
inadequate to house especially the middle and the more
junior staff of the Institute.



- 79 -
8.4  Training   commenced  in  1982  and  annual  enrolment   has
continued to increase fLom 441 in 1982 to 1,409 in 1987.
54% of trainees had come from ADPs but patronage has come
from both public and private sectors and wider spread, of
patronage would be achieved provided funds are available to
launch a dynamic marketing programme for ARMTI courses.
8.5  One  big attraction to the Insti6ute is the quality  of  the
trainers which is partly due to their selection but much
more due to the staff development programme which exposed
them to a variety of sources for acquiring knowledge and
skill. This should be a continuing feature of the policy of
staff development in ARMTI.
8.6 The total project cost is 147.66 million or US$28.35
million, substantially higher than was proposed. Facilities
erected we-e  substantially larger than proposed  but  high
rate of inflation and substantial devaluation of the Naira
are contributive factors to the difference between appraisal
cost and actual cost.
8.7 All the essential aspects of the Institute are in place.
The buildings and their facilities, the board of governors,
the Director and his management committee and a large number
of dedicated staff at all levels.
This first phase can thus be described as largely successful
and it is anticipated that the 2nd phase would be equally
successful.



- 80 -
r0MMENTq FR6M T14E BORROWER      AMMlFX
Page I of 3
AGRICULTURAL & RURAL MANAGEMENT
TRAINING INSTITUTE
TELEPHONE: 031-221183,221184                             P.M.5. 1343 ILORIN.
TELEGRAMS: ARMTI. ILORIN                                 KWARA STATE NIGLRIA.
IELEX: 33215ARMTING.                                     WrESt AFRICA.
REF.  NO  :___ _ __ __ _ __ _
RFF NOARMTI/DIR/5/VIII/808                 14th  December, 1989
Graham Donaldson
Ciief
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division
Operations Evealuation Department
The World Bank
1818H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Sir
RE: NIGERTA: ARMTI (LOAN 1719-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I refer to the evaluation summary by the Bank staff on the
Project Completion Report on the above project.
It was not possible during implementation to keep strictly to the
proposal in the SAP as regards the administrative structure of
the Institute.
But  there  has  never  been a tir.e when  the  institute  had  13
departments.    Originally,   the   institute   started  with   2
departments.   It  was considered wise and expedient to give  the
preparation of training aids and materials an equal emphasis as
the training itself hence the upgrading of what was originally
production  and  audio  visual  section  to  a  department.   The
department was named Special Studies and Technical Services.
It w4s also charged with the responsibility for organising
seminars and gathering data on agriculture and other agro-based
activities in the sector ARMTI is meant to serve. Thus ARMTI has
two  technical and one administrative departments.   There are in
additions, divisions and units.
With regards to staff strength, the apparent large number was due
to  the  number  of  junior support staff  needed  to   keep  the
institute going.   Because of thzeate to security and in order to
protect life and property, we have to keep a large number of
guards. Because of the fleet of vehicles we have to keep to enable
us run in-house courses outside the campus, we have to hire over
30  drivers.   The number of secretarial staff and  our  catering
staff  is also quite large.   A large number of labour force was
necessary to keep the compound clean, to maintain vehicles and to
carry  out  other  essential services.   The wages of  all  these
junior  staff  really  do  not  amount to what  one  can  say  is
unbearable  in  our circumstance.   All these support  staff  are
Ofirce of the Director



ANNFX
81 -                         Page 2 of 3
contributing  to  the training function.   Comparing  the  senior
staff in the Faculty with those in Administration, one finds that
thbre are 34 senior staff on GL 10 and above in the faculty as
against 22 in administration. Administration Department consists
of maintenance, finance, internal audit, public relations, human
resour,es, stores, catering all of which are needed for training
functions to be properly performed.
In the Nigerian context, ARMTI's strength is very good when
compared to other Government organizations of the same size and
age. Given the Nigerian circumstance and the level of ARMTI's
operations, the Institute does not seem to be overstaffed.
However,  the Bank's concern has been noted.   Steps have already
been taken that staff who resign or whose appointments are
terminated will not be replaced unless if critically necessary.
It is not envisaged that there would be appreciable increase in
staff strength during MS ADP II.
We agree with the Bank's comment that the quality of teaching is
closely related to the issue of staff utilization.   The issue of
shortage of teaching staff is not applicable now because all
divisions of the training department have been strengthened and
the number of trainers we now have is considered adequate for the
volume of work we have to do.
Any imbalance in teaching staff allocation will be looked into
but the reference made to.224 person / year (pY) in respect of
ARMTI farm will appear to be out of date. When the idea of ARMTI
farm was muted as a way of providing practical demonstration on
management of small farm, only one youth corper was engaged to
supervise it under the guidance of one of the trainers.   I will
not think the time the trainer devoted to the project amounted to
much.   The  opposition  to the idea of ARMTI farm was so  strong
that the idea was dropped immediately and one would not think it
could have contributed appreciably to any imbalance.
The  issue of sustainability is being addressed.   We  are making
efforts to recover full cost of lodging and course materials. We
are exploring many other avenues of generating funds in order to
cover operating costs.    But our success will depend on how well
it goes with our clients. If the present poor state of release of
funds to our clients and the state of the Nigerian economy
continues, the revenue we will be able to generate will be
greatly reduced.
We  note  the  comments  on findings  and  lessons  learnt.   Our
programme in the 1990s is aimed at addressing all the suggestions
which help in increasing the number of clients reached and in
improving our productivity along the lines suggested in the
evaluation summary.



82 -AnNFX
Page I of 3
We thank the Bank for the comments and we are happy to note that
we  are held in high esteem in the discharge of our mandate.   We
will do our best to maintain the high standard already set.
Yours sincerely
J.O. Alabi
Director
cc: World Bank, Lagos



