Document of
The World Bank
4mr mx C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           .   X L   w       
Report No. P-2389-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
May 23, 1979
This document has a restricted disibution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1 - Naira 0.65
Ni - US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton         =  0.98 long ton
1 long ton           =  1.017 metric ton
(= 2,240 lbs.)
1 hectare            =  2.47 acres
1 acre               =  0.405 hectare
1 kilometre (km)     =  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ARMTI         -  Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
CDC           -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
FMARD         -  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG           -  Federal Military Government
LGC           -  Local Government Council
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                 US$9 million, equivalent
Terms:                  Payable over 20 years including 5 years of grace at
an interest rate of 7.9 percent per annum.
Project Description:   The project would establish a self-contained Agri-
cultural and Rural Management Training Institute
which would train managers and supervisors in the
agricultural and rural sector to handle more effec-
tively their management functions. Annual enrollment
is expected to total about 560.
Project components would include civil works related
to campus development, together with the provision
of furnishings, equipment and vehicles. Management
of the Institute would be contracted to an inter-
national firm or consortium of firms experienced in
management training. This firm would provide 24
man-years of technical assistance to fill six senior
staff positions at the Institute. In addition, it
would be responsible for establishing and operating
the Institute, recruiting senior staff, training
Nigerian teaching staff and establishing an evalua-
tion system. Another project component would consist
of fellowships for training up to 24 teaching staff
outside Nigeria. In addition, 25 man-months of
support consultant services would be contracted to
assist with course development work, evaluate program
results and advise on future development of the
facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
Total         Foreign         Local
----------(US$ million)----------
Civil Works and Construction               6.0            2.4             3.6
International Staff & Consultants          2.2            2.2              -
Local Staff                                1.2            0.1             1.1
Fellowships                                1.1            0.7             0.4
Furniture, Equipment & Vehicles            0.8            0.4             0.4
Operating Costs                            1.3            0.3             1.0
Total Base Costs                          12.7            6.3             6.4
Contingencies:  Physical                   0.6            0.3            0.3
Price                    4.9            2.4             2.5
Total Project Costs                       18.2            9.0             9.2
Financing Plan:
Total         Foreign         Local
--------(US$ million)----------
FMG                                        8.4             -             8.4
IBRD                                       9.0            9.0
Fees                                       0.8             -             0.8
Total Project Costs                       18.2            9.0            9.2
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY           1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Annual           0.5   4.0   1.2   1.2   0.9   0.8   0.4
Cumulative       0.5   4.5   5.7   6.9   7.8   8.6   9.0
Rate of Return:    Benefits are non-quantifiable.
Appraisal Report:  1697-UNI dated May 14, 1979.
1/   Columns may not sum because of rounding.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF T'HE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$9 million
to help finance the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Management
Training Institute. The loan would have a term of 20 years including
5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Nigeria, Recent Economic Developments and
Short-Term Prospects" (Report 1690a-UNI, dated D)ecember 23, 1977) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. The following paragraphs summarize
the major conclusions of that report and update them on the basis of more
recent findings by an economic mission which visited Lagos in October/November,
1978. The report of this mission is expected to be distributed to the
Executive Directors in late May, 1979. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        After 12 years of military regime, Nigeria is now embarking on
the final stages of its program for a return to civilian rule. The present
military government is adhering closely to the plan, announced in July 1975,
for restoring constitutional government in 1979. In 1976/77 a new constitu-
tion was drafted and elections for local government councils were held. The
draft constitution was subsequently adopted by a Constituent Assembly com-
prising mostly elected but partly nominated members. An amended version was
accepted by the Supreme Military Council and formally promulgated in November
of last year. The 12-year-old ban on political parties and activities was
lifted in October 1978, resulting in the upspring of over 20 parties shortly
thereafter. Only 5 of these parties met the ru:Les laid down by the Federal
Military Government and will compete in the elections of federal and state
legislatures and of an executive president during the course of this year,
leading to a complete transfer of political power to a civilian administration
by October 1, 1979.
Economic Background
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 79 million (1977).  GNP per
capita is around US$420, which partly reflects the gain from increased oil
prices, and is higher than other indicators of the standard of living would
suggest. In terms of such criteria as life expectancy, child mortality and
number of people per physician, it ranks amongst the poorest countries in the



- 2 -
world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade, but not
until the sharp increase in the oil price in late 1973 did it acquire such a
dominating influence, surpassing the agricultural sector in all measures of
relative importance except employment; it now accounts for 80 percent of
government revenue and over 90 percent of export earnings. The oil boom gave
a major boost to economic activity and supplied the means for a huge develop-
ment effort. An ambitious Third National Development Plan (1975-80) provided
for a US$70 billion investment program. As a result of the rapid rise in
government expenditure, the non-oil sector grew at an average of 11 percent
per year and overall GDP at 6 percent over the four years since 1973. However,
the main sources of growth were construction and the tertiary sectors, whereas
investment and production in the directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture, has been lagging.
5.        The level of petroleum revenue, up from US$2.3 billion in 1973/74
to US$9.2 billion in 1977/78, has had a profound influence on the fiscal
situation. In the four-year period following 1973/74, recurrent expenditure
by the Federal Government increased from US$1.1 billion to US$4.2 billion,
and capital spending from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion. Public sector
investment showed a remarkable expansion not only in such traditional areas as
transport, communications, and power, but also in education and large-scale
manufacturing.
6.        The impact of the oil boom on the balance of payments has been
equally strong. Exports rose by 150 percent in 1974 and by mid-1975 foreign
exchange reserves amounted to US$6.2 billion. This permitted a rapid expan-
sion of imports which, by 1978, were at a level four times that reached in
1974.
Re-emergence of Financial Constraints
7.        Projections made early in 1975 did not indicate a reversal of the
country's resource position until 1980, yet the first signs of a turnaround
appeared already late in 1975, and the financial constraint tightened towards
the end of 1977. The re-emergence of a resource gap has been more rapid and
drastic than expected. The cause is a combination of two major factors: on
the one hand, lower than expected oil exports due to a surplus of light crude
on the world market and, on the other hand, the inability of the Government to
adjust expenditure to available resources.
8.        So rapidly did Government expenditure rise that already in 1975/76
the federal budget showed an overall deficit of US$2.6 billion; the situation
deteriorated further with the deficit reaching US$3.3 billion in 1977/78.
State Governments' budgets were also in deficit. Initially, the Federal
Government was able to draw upon its previously accumulated balances, but now
that they have been depleted, domestic borrowing, largely through the banking
system, has financed the additional requirements. More recently, external
borrowing has assumed greater importance as a source of finance.



- 3 -
9.        With public sector investment accounting for 70 percent of total
investment, and total Government expenditure around 43 percent of GDP, the
strain on the administrative resources of the Government has been enormous.
The severe shortage of skilled manpower, in addition to physical bottlenecks,
seriously limited the extent to which Nigeria's oil wealth could be effectively
utilized within a short period.
10.       Having reached 2.25 million barrels per day (mbpd) in 1974, oil
production has fluctuated since then at significantly lower levels. In the
first quarter of 1978 production fell sharply to 1.5 mbpd mainly because
Nigeria maintained a relatively high price in the face of intense competition
from the newer sources of oil, e.g. the North Sea and Alaska. Following an
adjustment of the Nigerian price, production recovered strongly throughout the
remainder of 1978, and is currently at the high level of 2.4 mbpd.
11.       As a result of the stagnation in oil production and the heavy import
demand, the balance of payments recorded an overall deficit from 1976 onwards.
This reflects a basic change in the balance of trade. Whereas oil exports
in 1978 were roughly the same as in 1974, imports more than quadrupled and,
consequently, the current account showed a deficit of US$4.3 billion in 1978.
Foreign exchange reserves fell gradually to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1977,
then dropped rapidly to US$1.9 billion by the end of 1978, the equivalent of
only 7 weeks imports.
12.       There can be little doubt that the rapid expansion of Government
expenditure has contributed to a high level of inflation in recent years.
The increase in the cost-of-living averaged 26 percent per year between 1975
and 1977, but may have dropped below 20 percent in 1978. Severe port conges-
tion and internal distributional bottlenecks have prevented liberal import
policies from being more effective in dampening inflation. The domestic
rate of inflation has been considerably higher than that of Nigeria's main
trading partners, and consequently the competitive position of domestic
producers of traded goods is thought to have been seriously weakened.
Recent Measures and Short-Term Outlook
13.       The Government has recognized the deteriorating financial position
and, over the last two years, has introduced a series of measures aimed at
curbing inflation and strengthening the balance of payments. Wages in the
public and private sector were frozen. Monetary policy measures included
ceilings on bank credit and a rise in interest rates in two stages by up to
two percentage points. Investment in agriculture and oil exploration was
encouraged through fiscal incentives. While the official oil export price was
lowered by 5 percent early in 1978, the price of domestic fuel was raised by
about 60 percent. The principal measures, however, were the introduction of
an austere budget in 1978 together with extensive import restrictions. The
revised Federal Government budget estimates for 1978/79 provided for a cut of
5 percent in recurrent expenditures, and of 32 percent in capital expenditures
compared with the previous year's actual outlays. Although the budget esti-
mates for 1979/80 show a modest rise in nominal expenditure, there is probably
no increase in real terms. In addition to the imposition of substantially
higher import duties, a wide range of consumer goods as well as intermediate



- 4 -                                                I
goods were either banned or licensed in 1978. These restrictions were further
tightened in the 1979/80 budget. The Government also successfully raised two
large Euro-currency loans amounting to a total of US$1.75 billion.
14.       While the Government is continuing to experience serious financial
limitations, and last year's measures have not yet become fully effective,
the financial situation appears to be stabilizing. The budget deficit in
1978/79 was greatly reduced to about US$1.7 billion and, in view of the large
external loans, borrowing from the domestic banking system was limited. Along
with the substantial run down of foreign exchange reserves that has already
occurred, this resulted in a sharp drop in monetary expansion, and helped to
dampen inflation. The 1979/80 budget should essentially maintain this situa-
tion.  The balance of payments outlook, however, is less sanguine.  On the
positive side, oil exports in 1979 will be considerably higher following the
recovery in oil production and the recently announced OPEC price increase.
The present uncertainty in the world oil markets could also work to Nigeria's
advantage. In addition, the import restrictions which caused anticipatory
purchases in 1978 should have an impact in 1979. On the other hand, no
significant change is expected in non-oil exports, and there is virtually no
scope for further use of foreign exchange reserves. Moreover, external
borrowing on the scale of 1978 is unlikely to be maintained.
15.       The tighter financial position is also affecting the implementation
of the Third Plan (1975-1980). Its size has been gradually reduced, initially
due to a lack of administrative and executive capacity, which restricted
the rate of implementation, but more recently also as a result of resource
constraints.
Longer-Term Prospects and Policies
16.       The Government is in the midst of preparing the Fourth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85). Although the guidelines have not yet been made public, the
authorities have indicated that the next few years would be viewed as a
period of consolidation, as public sector investments are stabilized at the
current level, and the economy is restructured by stimulating the growth of
commodity producing sectors. Gross domestic investment would account for
around 25 percent of GDP in 1985. Provided investments are well conceived
and effective, this rate should permit a satisfactory growth of the economy,
albeit more modest compared to recent performance, with considerable potential
for employment creation. However, the principal constraint on future growth
will be the balance of payments, and the actual performance of the economy
will depend on how successfully imports are replaced by domestic production
and non-oil exports stimulated. One critical factor will be to ensure the
competitiveness of domestic production relative to foreign goods. This will
require measures affecting the incentive structure, including the establishment
of a favorable cost and price structure, as well as a change in investment
priorities towards more directly productive projects.
17.       The demand on the institutional and manpower resources of the public
sector in recent years has clearly been excessive. This accounts, in part,
for the relatively weak economic management and inefficiency in resource use.
However, the expected more modest investment effort should ease the strain



- 5 -
on the Government's administrative and manageria1 capacity. Furthermore, the
transition to civilian rule in October, 1979, is generally expected to lead to
a greater role for the private sector, thus easing what has been one of the
fundamental constraints to obtaining a higher return on the large investment
effort. Given Nigeria's solid resource base, it is thought that, in spite of
limitations in absorptive capacity, a medium-term growth of around 4 percent
would be within reach.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
18.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing. The public guaranteed external debt outstanding (including undis-
bursed) amounted to $1.3 billion at the end of 1977 and, mainly because of
the two syndicated Euro-currency loans, it amounted to $3.2 billion at end of
1978. The service on this debt would rise to an average of $550 million a
year in the early 1980s, representing about 3 percent of the expected export
earnings. The World Bank's share in the external debt now is about 25 percent.
The Government has indicated its reluctance to incur any more syndicated
loans, though it would continue to contract project financing largely on
commercial terms. Given the relatively low level of the existing external
debt and the Government's cautious approach to foreign borrowing, the debt
service ratio over the next ten years is unlikely to rise above 15 percent.
Provided the Government is able to effectively implement policies that will
correct the current imbalance between aggregate demand and supply and lead to
improved resource use, Nigeria can be considered creditworthy for considerable
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1979 amounted
to US$942.9 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1979 was US$612.2 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$330.7 million. Transport and power together
account for about 43 percent of total commitments; agriculture for about 31
percent (most of which was committed in the last four fiscal years); and
education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining
26 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY77 were about
US$59 million, and US$51 million in FY78, but are expected to increase in the
coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria. There
have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria for US$35.5 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC had made three loans to borrowers totalling US$3.6 million
and four equity investments totalling US$2.4 million. Of these amounts,
US$3.4 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



20.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in
consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third Plan,
which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and with its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity
of the economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
including the rural poor.
21.       In view of Nigeria's increasing need for external finance and the
interest it has expressed in greater Bank involvement, a greatly expanded
Bank lending program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to
lending in Nigeria, a central objective is to encourage the shift (already
discernable in the Federal Government's investment programming) away from
the massive and diffused infrastructure investment which characterized the
two or three years following the oil boom towards a more discriminating
support for growth in the commodity producing sectors. A second objective
of Bank lending is to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This
objective has been actively pursued in recent agricultural projects which
benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of
this kind will continue to figure prominently in the future lending program.
A third objective of Bank lending is to support Government's efforts to
diversify the economy and reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum as
a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. Consequently, we hope to
develop some industrial projects of an explicitly export-oriented nature,
though our efforts are still at a rather preliminary stage. Agricultural
lending in particular will include strengthening the potential for export
crops such as cocoa.
22.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a positive contribution in power, highway maintenance, and water supply.
Project identification work is under way in all of these sectors. Strategic
support for the commodity producing sectors will also be given by lending
for education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical
and teacher training be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
Government's efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
be addressed through a number of urban development projects focussed on the
needs of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these
lines would be in keeping with the need to generate employment and would
support also the Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues
to ameliorate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.



-7 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector. Approximately 60
percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for their
principal source of employment and income. Since, in the future, other
sectors will have only a limited absorptive capacity for additional labor,
the agricultural sector will continue to play a key role for some time to
come both as an employer and as a provider of foodstuffs for the rapidly
growing urban population. The importance of the agricultural sector is
manifest also by other indicators. Value added by agriculture accounts for
almost one-quarter of GDP and fully one-third if petroleum production is
excluded. Furthermore, over 60 percent of non-oil exports consist of agri-
cultural products.
24.       In terms of growth, the agricultural sector has been essentially
stagnant in recent years. Production has fluctuated significantly from
year to year, but there was no real growth of value added during the period,
1970-77. These years witnessed a marked decline in the export of traditional
agricultural products other than cocoa while imports of food rose from US$80
million to nearly US$1,200 million. At the same time food prices rose pre-
cipitously as demand (a function of population and income growth) outstripped
domestic supply.
25.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders whose levels of technology and productive efficiency are low. The
typical productive unit is a family farm of between 2-3 hectares. Develop-
ment of the sector is taking place against a background of a rapid development
in non-agricultural activities and rising standards of education, both of
which contrast sharply with the poor returns to labor associated with tradi-
tional agriculture. This has encouraged the drift of young people away from
rural areas and has resulted in a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor.
Ultimately, a prosperous agriculture industry, capable of reducing this drift
can be achieved only through the application of advanced farming techniques
and better management of farm support services.
26.       Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the agri-
culture sector and to utilize a substantial proportion of revenues from oil,
a depleting asset, to expand and diversify the rest of the economy in which
agriculture is the dominant sector. In the revised Third Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan, a total of US$4.8 billion has been earmarked for the sector to
support a targeted growth rate of 5 percent. The actual level of expendi-
ture may be lower, however, as a result of fiscal constraints and estimated
growth is about 1 percent per annum. The Plan includes development of several
major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of modern farming techniques
to smallholders, improved input distribution and marketing services and sup-
port for various integrated development projects. Rural development programs
along these lines are to be promoted with complementary investments in second-
ary and feeder roads, rural electrification, health and other social services.



- 8 -
27.       The Government's main objective in the short-term is to improve
the domestic price stability of basic food crops and to ensure adequate food
supplies for the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background
of assuring domestic food supplies, Government's long-term objectives are to
create a prosperous and efficient agricultural industry that will restrain
the population drift to urban centers and revive the role of Nigeria as an
exporter of agricultural produce. Success in this endeavor will be contingent,
however, upon overcoming a number of development constraints in the sector.
Development Constraints
28.       One of the most critical constraint facing Nigerian agriculture
today is the lack of experienced manpower at the managerial, administrative
and technical levels to plan and implement development programs. The need for
more experienced managerial and supervisory staff is all the more pressing as
a result of the increase in Government-sponsored projects and the revival
of estate agriculture. Furthermore, the establishment of several new states
has placed heavy demands upon the supply of managerial and administrative
personnel. In order to implement development projects in agriculture, the
Government has recruited expatriate management increasingly in recent years.
A longer term solution to the management problem, however, hinges upon
training greater numbers of Nigerian management staff.
29.       Deficiencies in the institutional framework of rural development
are other constraints with which the sector must contend. Following the
recent introduction of far reaching reforms in the system of local govern-
ment, responsibility for rural development now rests in the hands of newly
formed Local Government Councils (LGCs). These Councils have been endowed
with a broad range of responsibilities including the provision of social
and physical infrastructure, the organization of farmer extension services,
health services, etc. It would appear that, in the long-run, the LGCs may
be appropriate institutions to take-over many of the responsibilities which
are now exercised by the management units of Bank-financed agricultural and
rural development projects. However, the LGCs are still in a formative
stage and, being as yet poorly staffed, they need considerable support by
way of technical assistance and management training.
30.       Another constraint to agricultural development is the lack of
effective support services. The transport of produce is hampered by lack
of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel long distances to obtain fer-
tilizers and other basic farm inputs which, in many cases, are in irregular
supply. Consequently, even with prevailing levels of subsidies on farm
inputs, production has not increased significantly and has actually declined
in some areas.  Extension services are generally deficient and the new tech-
nologies that are available are not reaching farmers in remote rural areas.
A greater effort is required, particularly by Nigerian agricultural research
institutions, to improve the analysis of technical, economic and financial
aspects of farming innovations and adapt them to the different socio-ecological
conditions of Nigeria. Improved management will contribute significantly to
this goal.



- 9 -
31.       The excessive centralization of many service functions in the hands
of public agencies is yet another source of difficulty for agriculture. It
would appear that, given the size of Nigeria's massive development program,
Government will need to divest itself progressively of responsibilities for
marketing both farm inputs and farm produce since this function can be handled
more effici-ntly by private enterprise. This would require the creation of an
economic framework appropriate to profitable intervention of private entrepre-
neurs in the agriculture service sector and a consequent redefinition of the
role of Federal and State agricultural ministries in that context.
32.       The Federal Government is generally aware of these constraints and
of the need for further improvements in planning and executive capabilities
at both the State and Federal levels. In addition, the dearth of technical
and managerial personnel at all levels suggets a need for greater rational-
ization of the responsibilities of public agencies and for much closer coor-
dination in the activities of such agencies, if the effectivess of available
manpower is to be maximized.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
33.       Since 1971 the Bank has approved loans for sixteen agricultural
projects in Nigeria. Of these one relates to livestock, one to forestry,
seven others relate to the development of specific crops (oil palm, cocoa
and rice) while the remaining seven relate to the general agricultural devel-
opment of target areas. Among this latter group the three northern projects
(Loans 1092-UNI, 1099-UNI and 1164-UNI) are now well established and their
success has demonstrated the advantages of planned agricultural development
implemented under a reformed administrative structure which allows overall
State control while affording management full day-to-day operational autonomy.
Government and the Bank have been able to review together the progress of
these projects, and are generally satisfied with the approach adopted. Both
Federal and State Governments are anxious to replicate this project structure
in other States of the Federation. There is also interest in increasing the
role of the commercial agricultural sector in line with the approach pursued
by these projects. In this respect, the projects are acting as catalysts of
change on a much wider basis than was initially envisaged.
34.       It is envisaged that the integrated agricultural and rural develop-
ment project will continue to play a prominent role in Bank lending to agri-
culture. Other projects of an institution-building and technical-assistance
nature will become increasingly important, however. In this context atten-
tion will be focussed, in particular, upon strengthening nationwide the
agricultural research function, improving the performance of agricultural
credit institutions, assisting the establishment of a more efficient marketing
system and providing technical assistance in matters of agricultural planning
both at the Federal level and at the State level.
35.       The success of this endeavor will depend, inter alia, upon the
extent to which the agricultural sector can draw upon the services of experi-
enced manpower at the managerial, administrative and technical levels to plan
and implement development programs. The short-term solution to this problem



- 10 -
adopted in many Banksupported projects is international recruitment and the
establishment of special project management units. Nevertheless, a long-term
solution must necessarily involve the training of Nigerian management staff.
To this end, training components are included in all of the Bank-financed
projects. The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
created under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1092-UNI) is
currently being expanded with the help of additional assistance from the Bank
provided under the Ayangba Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1455-UNI)
to provide an expanded support service, including planning for ongoing and
future projects. The present project would address the longer-term need for
management training even more directly.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The need for improved management training facilities in agriculture
has been a topic of discussion between the Bank and the Nigerian Government
for many years. In 1976 Government commissioned the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) to make proposals for agricultural management training in
Nigeria based on the CDC's own experience in establishing and operating the
Mananga Agricultural Management Center in Swaziland. Their report was issued
in September 1976 and became a preparation document on the basis of which
the project was appraised by the Bank in February/March 1977. The Appraisal
Report (No. 1697-UNI dated May 16, 1979) is being circulated separately to
the Exective Directors. Negotiations on the proposed loan were held with
the Nigerian authorities in November, 1978. Supplementary data on the
project is to be found in Annex III.
37.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to upgrade manage-
ment skills throughout the agricultural sector by establishing facilities for
the training of managers and supervisors currently employed in a wide range
of agricultural institutions. Success in this endeavor would contribute
directly to resolving one of the most pressing constraints to agricultural
development. At present, the existing agricultural training institutions are
neither staffed nor equipped to train practicing managers. The only organi-
zations currently involved in management training are geared either towards
the needs of commerce and industry or towards management and business studies
at a degree level. The establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Management
Training Institute would provide a means of training managers and supervisors
specifically from the agricultural and rural sector to handle more effectively
the management functions of their present positions. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, Government
would legally establish the Institute with a constitution satisfactory to the
Bank (see Section 3.01(b) of Loan Agreement).
38.       The training approach to be adopted by ARMTI in pursuing this goal
is based upon the proven experience of management training programs in many
parts of the world. Careful attention would be given to the accurate iden-
tification of training needs by developing a close working relationship with



- 11 -
employers. The Institute would serve a broad range of institutions including,
in particular, the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources at both
state and federal levels as well as local government councils and ongoing
Bank financed agricultural projects. Trainees would be drawn also from
organizations involved in marketing, the supply of farm inputs and provision
of agricultural credit. To enable training to influence effectively manage-
ment practices in the organizations served, Institute staff would arrange
specific training programs for individual organizations and would ensure that
all levels of management were covered. Programs would be tailored to meet the
needs of each organization. Annual enrollment at the Institute is expected to
total about 560.
39.       To supplement the in-house instruction of the Institute, trainees
would be placed on field assignments with experienced local companies or
foreign companies operating in Nigeria where they would learn specific manage-
ment skills in a practical setting. To this end Government, with the assis-
tance of Institute staff, would locate suitable firms engaged in activities
such as oil palm estates, forestry industries or ranching and enter into
formal contracts with them. The Institute would be responsible for monitoring
the progress of trainees in their field assignments. The project provides for
35 man-years of such training at an estimated cost of US$23,000 per man-year.
40.       On-the-job follow-up of all trainees would constitute another key
element of the Institute's program. At a suitable time after completion of
each course of instruction, seminars would be arranged for trainees either
at the Institute itself or at some convenient location in the field. These
seminars would be used as a forum to discuss the successes and difficulties
experienced by individual participants in applying their training. Advice
and further instruction would be given as needed. It is anticipated that
this follow-up work would occupy a significant portion of all teaching staff
time. At lower levels of management, the Institute would train instructors
to undertake most of the follow-up work.
41.       The core of the Institute's program would consist of three "main-
stream" courses. First, there would be a ten-week course for middle managers
including two periods of field studies, each of one week, involving supervised
assignments with experienced firms in the public or private sector. Second,
there would be a four-week course for second line supervisors. The content
of this course would vary to meet the needs of different organizations but it
would not cover the breadth of training needed at the middle management level.
Third, there would be a four-week course for the training of trainers in which
participants would learn how to train first line supervisors from their own
organization in a few important management techniques -- particularly those
that relate to interpersonal skills. After practicing these training func-
tions within their own organizations for a while, successful participants
would return to the Institute to learn how to handle additional training
modules. Institute staff would dedicate a large amount of their time to the
training of trainers because of their potentially important role in dissemi-
nating basic management skills to very large numbers of supervisory staff.
Specialist trainers would be encouraged to play a role also in the follow-up
activities for other trainees attending courses at: the Institute.



- 12 -
42.       In addition to the three "mainstream" courses targeted principally
at middle managers and second line supervisors, seminars would be held for
top managers to familiarize them with the work of the Institute so that they
may strengthen their own good management practices and reinforce their staff's
training. Short specialized courses for top managers would be arranged as
necessary.
43.       In order to accomplish so complex and ambitious a training program
the Institute would need to make full use of advanced teaching aids. A visual
aid production unit would be established at the Institute to prepare case
study material for purposes of instruction. Once this facility became opera-
tional a course for ranch managers would be able to incorporate case studies
drawn from ranches in Nigeria; a course for credit supervisors would be able
to draw upon the case experience of Nigerian credit organizations, and so on.
At the present time no such case study material exists on Nigerian agricul-
ture. The assembly of suitable material would be an important activity of
the Institute in its start-up phase.
44.       The principal physical components of the proposed project would be
the construction of a campus on a site near Ilorin complete with furnishings,
equipment and vehicles. Campus development would include the construction of
lecture rooms, offices, staff houses and hostel accommodation for 64 trainees.
Trainee accommodation would be of a standard suitable for even senior managers,
without involving elaborate architecture. The prestige of the Institute would
develop from its performance and the quality of its staff; not from the sophis-
tication of its buildings. Institute buildings would be functional, bearing
in mind the special nature of the teaching and of the trainees.
45.       Other major components of the project would be the provision of
fellowships for training up to 24 teaching staff outside Nigeria and the pro-
vision of 25 man-months of support consultant services to assist with course
development work, to evaluate program results and to recommend on the need for
further development of the Institute's facilities. It is estimated that the
cost of these short-term consultant services would amount to US$8,000 per
man-month -- consisting of US84,400 fees plus an allowance of US$3,600 for
travel and expenses.
Project Implementation
46.       The first priority of the project will be to contract an interna-
tional firm or consortium of firms experienced in management training to
establish, staff and operate the Institute in its initial phase. The experi-
ence of the consultants, their terms of reference and the conditions of their
contract would be acceptable to the Bank and the signing of the contract
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (see Sections 3.02(a) and 6.01(c)
of Loan Agreement). The contract would provide for 24 man-years of technical
assistance to fill six senior positions at the Institute. This technical
assistance has been costed at US$84,000 per man year (consisting, in rounded
terms, of US$30,000 base salary, US$30,000 allowances and benefits, US$4,000
international travel, plus company overheads and fees at 28%). The firm or
consortium would recruit other senior staff, train Nigerian teaching staff,
establish an evaluation system for the Institute, assume overall responsibility



- 13 -
for establishing the Institute, and prepare detailed course curricula.
Curricula acceptable to the Bank and to the Borrower would be prepared no
later than December 31, 1979 (see Section 3.02(c) of Loan Agreement).
47.       "Start-up" activities would begin as soon as the management contract
is formalized and a director is in post. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Federal Government would provide temporary office space
and accommodation for Institute staff pending construction of the campus (see
Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement). Initially the staff would remain small. The
senior specialists and the first of the Nigerian technical specialists would
be appointed some six months after initiation of the program. Once a nucleus
of teaching staff had been assembled and a basic organizational structure had
been established, the Institute would be in a position to begin courses in
July 1980.
48.       An important aim of "start-up" activities would be to lay a founda-
tion for the longer-term management and organization of the Institute. The
management consultants would assist Government to prepare detailed Articles for
a Board of Governors comprised primarily of representatives from client agencies,
both public and private. The Chairman of the Board would be appointed by
Government and would be responsible to the Federal Commissioner of Agriculture
and Rural Development. From an organizational point of view the structure of
the Institute would be compact and simple, comprising only two departments --
Administration and Training. The latter department would be germane to the
Institute's primary function and, in the first instance, would be run by the
Director of ARMTI. Within three years, however, it is expected that a Nigerian
would be promoted to head the Department of Training and, thereafter, the
Director would concentrate his primary attention upon determining the future
needs of the Institute.
49.       The innovative nature of the proposed project within West Africa
is such as to require careful evaluation of several key elements including
employer attitudes to the program, the quality of the program itself and the
demand for the Institute's services. The establishment of effective evalu-
ation procedures would constitute, therefore, an important aspect of project
implementation. In addition to continuous evaluation by Institute staff with
the assistance of consultants, advisory evaluation groups would be formed from
selected representatives of client organizations to provide feedback after the
completion of training programs. In this way, agricultural employers could
become more directly involved in the work of the Institute.
50.       The evaluation function would take on special significance in the
fourth year of the project, at which time the full complement of courses
will have been running for two years. At that time the experience gained in
various aspects of project execution would be drawn together by consultants in
conjunction with FMG and the Bank to form the basis for decisions concerning
the expansion of facilities or the development of a second campus.



- 14 -
Project Costs
51.       Total costs for the project period 1979-85 are estimated at US$18.2
million or US$16.4 million net of indirect taxes. The foreign exchange com-
ponent would amount to US$9.0 million or 49 percent of the total cost. A
breakdown of cost by major expenditure categories is given in the loan and
project summary. An allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal
to 5 percent of base costs, and price contingencies have been calculated on
base costs plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies for foreign costs
allow for an annual rate of international inflation between 6 and 7 percent.
Price contingencies for local costs are estimated at 20 percent per annum
except for government-hired labor, the cost of which is expected to rise by
13 percent a year over the project period. On the basis of these consider-
ations, total contingencies are estimated at US$5.5 million -- some 43 percent
of base costs.
Project Financing
52.       The proposed loan of US$9.0 million would finance 55 percent of
total project cost net of tax and would be equivalent to the foreign exchange
cost. Of the remaining US$9.2 project cost, the Federal Government would
finance the bulk (US$8.4 million) and a smaller amount (US$0.8 million) would
be recovered in the form of fees. Trainees would be charged boarding fees to
cover such costs as food and laundry. In accordance with the current policies
of FMG, however, they would not contribute to tuition costs.
Procurement Arrangement
53.       Vehicles, furniture and equipment valued at about US$0.8 million
net of contingencies would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines whenever the contract package
exceeded US$100,000. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a
15 percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. For contracts of less than US$100,000 local com-
petitive bidding would be employed in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Contracts of less than US$30,000 could be procured locally on
the basis of competitive quotations. To the extent possible, however, items
to be procured shall be bulked to permit the optimum use of competitive
bidding.
54.       Civil works and construction, valued at US$6.0 million net of
contingencies, would be contracted by ICB but may prove too small to attract
outside tenders. The services of consultants and internationally recruited
staff, valued at US$2.5 million, would be obtained in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. Other project costs amounting to US$3.4 million,
comprise local salaries, operating expenses and staff training costs.



- 15 -
Disbursement
55.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1979-85.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of the salaries and allowances
of internationally recruited staff and against 100 percent of the cost of
consultancy services and training abroad for Institute staff. The foregoing
items are estimated to total some US$3.9 million. In the case of vehicles,
equipment, furniture and fixtures, amounting to an estimated US$0.6 million,
disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange costs or
against 60 percent of total cost where such items are procured locally. Civil
works, totalling US$3.5 million, would be eligible for disbursement at 45 per-
cent of total cost. An additional provision of US$1.0 million has been made
on an unallocated basis.
56.       In order to expedite project implementation and ensure that dis-
bursements of the proposed loan are made available immediately to ARMTI, Bank
disbursements will be made directly into the Institute's commercial bank
account. This bank account is to be opened by the Government in the name of
the Institute with an initial deposit of N 650,000 as a condition of loan
effectiveness. (See Section 3.07(b) of Loan Agreement.).
Project Benefits
57.       By improving management capabilities throughout the agricultural
sector the project would alleviate one of the most critical constraints to
sector growth. Project benefits would, therefore, be widespread, albeit
intangible. The present standard of management in many government departments
and agencies is low and this constitutes a serious impediment to the efficient
implementation of government sponsored projects and programs. Improved manage-
ment in this field could lead to a much more efficient use of limited financial
and skilled manpower resources in the public sector. The upgrading of manage-
ment skills in productive activities such as estate management is likely to
have an even more direct impact upon productivity and upon the economic and
financial viability of the operations concerned.
58.       In addition to raising productivity, better management can lead to
improved job satisfaction throughout the sector and this, in turn, is likely
to reduce the loss of manpower to other sectors. Indeed, improved staff
morale and increased productivity may enable the sector to attract new staff.
By helping management to anticipate change better, adjust more rapidly to new
situations and grasp more readily new opportunities, the proposed project
would benefit all agricultural and rural development projects in Nigeria. It
may be the only way to reduce the country's present dependence upon costly
expatriate managerial staff.



- 16 -
Project Risks
59.       This is an innovative project within the context of West Africa and
a certain technical risk exists in adapting to Nigerian conditions, management
techniques which have been taken from the context of developed countries. To
minimize this risk every effort will be made to ensure that the management
consultants to the project are sensitive to the Nigerian milieu and that they
are sufficiently experienced to be able to adapt management concepts to the
Nigerian situation. Another risk is that employers in the sector may respond
slowly to the training opportunities afforded by ARMTI. This risk will be
minimized by carefully diagnosing and identifying the training needs of
employers and by incorporating the clients themselves into the evaluation of
ARMTI's program to ensure that it meets the needs of Nigeria. Yet another
risk is that some government institutions may be reluctant to adapt their
administrative structure to accommodate a more incisive management style.
This reluctance can best be overcome by intensifying our dialogue with Govern-
ment on the overall policies of the agricultural sector and the appropriate
institutional responses to sector needs. Finally, there is the risk that
counterpart funding may fall short of requirements if fiscal constraints
continue to become tighter. This risk is common to many projects in agricul-
ture and other sectors in Nigeria, and can be reduced only by a close dialogue
between the Bank and the Government to reach a common understanding with
respect to investment priorities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are
(a) that the Federal Government legally establish ARMTI in a form and with
powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; (b) that the Federal
Government open a commercial bank account for ARMTI with an initial deposit
of N650,000; and (c) that a management contract for the establishment, staff-
ing and operation of ARMTI during its initial phase be concluded in a form
satisfactory to the Bank and be duly executed.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 23, 1979
Washington, D. C.



- 18-                                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                   /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             923.8                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      445.0                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /C   GROUP Ld    GROUP L/
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   120.0       200.0      420.0            223.6      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       34.0         52.0      90.0             86.7       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         51.6         66.2      79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0          23.0       26.0             13.6       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        56.0         72.0       86.0             18.4       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0         152.0      178.0            53.6        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.0 /f      44.8      45.1             44.4        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.9 /f      53.0      52.6             52.7        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.1 Tf       2.2        2.3              2.8        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9  -       2.5        2.5              2.6        2.7          2.5
URBAN                               5.0          5.0        5.0              5.8        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.3        49.8       49.3             46.9       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.9         24.5       22.7             20.6       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.3        3.3              3.1        3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         7.6       33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..              2.5       14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              97.0        100.0       87.6             94.2      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0         89.0      88.0             90.1        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0 j       59.9       46.3            55.2        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.7 I       16.3       9.3             17.1        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..              ..         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5          38.5       41.0             43.7       53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           207.0           ..      163.0            138.4       82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..            22.4        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            66.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             10.4       18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..            23.9        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             70.3       69.5         45.4
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             14.2       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          56900.0/h   24660.0/i 25440.0            21757.5     9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      7640.0/h    5070.0/i  6230.0             3473.8     2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2770.0/h.1  2220.0    1900.0              645.4      786.5        493.9
URBAN                                ..        400.0         ..            172.9      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                ..      18450.0         ..           1292.6     1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..             19.2        19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              4.9         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..        4.7              5.0         ..          5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              4.7         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..          ..         2.0
URBAN                               3.0           ..        2.2               *-        2.3          1.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..          ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..           ..       42.4               ..         ..         67.8
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..       10.3         34.1



19-                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 1b ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /et
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENAujLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  36.0         34.0       49.0             52.1        75.8        99.8
FEMALE                27.0         25.0       39.0             37.6        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          4.0      10.0               8.0        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                 1.0          3.0        7.0              5.0        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0            8.5        3.8 /k           7.2         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.0         34.0       34.0             43.2        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                           19.0         21.0      25.0              22.8       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         25.0 /1        ..         ..             20.3        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0        2.1              3.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0         23.0      69.0              40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2          1.4        1.8              2.2        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    8.0          5.0        9.0              3.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        0.5              1.2         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0 /f  25600.0   29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.3         40.6       40.2             32.6        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               71.0         67.0      61.0              73.3        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.4         13.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.7         40?5       39.1             42.0        37.8         33.8
MALE                                  50.9         48.8       47.4             54.8        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                34.8         32.4       31.0             27.3        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4 /f       1.2        1.2              1.2         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             25.7        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             55.1        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..              5.8         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             14.5        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            108.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       74.0             74.1        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      175.0            124.4       143.7        319.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       83.0             59.6        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       33.0             26.8        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       27.0             47.6        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries asmong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   le  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1963;  /R  1961-63;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practicing in the country;    11  Including ex-north Cameroons under British administration;   /k  certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of a vocational of technical
nature are now reported under general education;   /I  prior to 1965.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
-20 -                                                                         Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IRNDICATORS
Notes: Althou-gh the data are drawn from sources generally judged the moat authoritative and reliable. it should also be noted that the! may not be inter-
natiooally cmoparable because of the lack of standardizrd definitiono and concepts need by different uountriee in collecting the date. The deta er., nonetheless,
useful to deacribe ordera of nagnitude, indicate trends, and charactciree certtin major differences between cotntrie.
The adiusted group averages for each indi-ator ore population-weighted geometric neane, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the mast
populated country in each group. Cou-rage of countris among tho indicators depends on availability of data and in not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averugas for Capital Surpluu Oil Exporters and indicstor-  of anoe.a  to wster and  crotn  dispo.a., houeing, income dietrihution and poverty arc
simple population-weighted geometric means without thb exclusono of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kh)                                                               Population par hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising ln' area o'I inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective  uamber of hospital beds
Agri-ultural - Most recent estimate of agri.ult    .- rea usaed temporarily                available in public and private general and spenialized heapital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and  -_tchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally cuetodial
oars ore nor included. Rural hospitals, however, inolude health and m.di-
GNP PER CAPITA (U$) - GNP per capita esticates at current market prices,                    0al t  ers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical  s-
calculated by  amae t.nversion method as World Bank Atlas (197S-77 basis)                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 dra.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hosital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual csntumptiun of cnua-erCial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of bed. 
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of cal equivalent per capita.                     hOUSING
Aeae sireof houshl   (Persons per bousehold) - total, urban, and rural-
POPLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consieta of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millionni - As of July 1; if not  -vsilable,                   and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may nor be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household fur statistical purpoesa.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of parsons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per squate kilometer (IOO hectares)                    unoccupiad parta.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rutal -
Per sq. ke. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), workicg-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Ad1usted enrollment ratios
Population groth talc (          t) -to , and urban - Coupaucd anuual                    Primary schoul - iota1, and fenule - Total and female enrollment of sll ages
growth rates of total  nod urban mid-your populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-71.                                                                   populatIons; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live birrhs per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year popalation; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since saome pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimats.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoouand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year a-ithaetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tino requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general voeational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
rs  reprod-utin rate - Ave-age modber of daughters a woman will bear                       usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
In her normal oeprnduotivc period if she ecperiesces pro..e.t age-                       ocluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year avergen ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1971.                                                                          elude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - auceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secuodary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the carte-
_amily planing -d wome) - Percentage of                                                    sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing ago (1i-44 pears) who use birth-control               Adnlt  itracy rote (Percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to ol notcied women in sums ago group.                                           a perc.ntage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSLMPTION
Index of food producctin per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food coomodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; emcludes ambulasces, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of reduiraments) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (par thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports leos               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; ercludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stNce. Nct oupplic           1 exclude snimal feed, seeds,    receivers in ountries and in years when r-gistration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mest countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering enviropmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                       trios and in years  when regiotration of TT sets was in affect.
Per napita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average cirocla-
capita not supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined a. a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It Is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grsme should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the uorld, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per capita protein suoply from animal and pulso - Protein supply of food              EMPLOIYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-h) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unem?loyed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in vinous countries are not comparable.
Pemale (Percent) - Femala labor fore  as parcentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor f rce in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life enpectanoy at birth (years) - Average nuaber of yearn of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
an  1.                                                                                   electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total. urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjuered participation rates reflecting  gpe-sec
Number of peopl  (tEtal., urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    structure of the population, and long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
u=contaminated water auch as that fron protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
amd sanitary wells) as percentages or their respective populations.
in an urban ares a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 210 meters fram a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) .c..ivad by richest 5
senable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do net have to                      of households.
spend a disp-oportionate part of the day in fetching the fumily's
wate  needs.                                                                         POVtRTY TARGET GRDUPS
Access t_emacreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (USs oar ceaits) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty ince level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential mon-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human axcreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level is that inease level less than one-third
Puonlatfon per physicianf  -  opulation divided ay number ot ptacticing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated poulation below Poverty incone level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who arc either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economin and Socral Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
-21-                                                Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROXqH (o , constent prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1974-77              122_6            1977
GNP at Market Ptices          39839         100.0                          7.4               11.3              5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119           30.4                         30.7               24.5             23.6
Gross Naticnal Saving         11101          28.3                         26.3               16.6             17.8
Current Account Balance       -1018           2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         12639          31.7                          1.9               14.7              9 9
Imports of Goods, NFS         13236          33.2                         33.1               31.0             17.5
OUTPUOT, LA3OR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Force-/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    _                    min.        %-S-_                              %
Agriculture                    9897        30.4                 18.3       61                     541          50
Industry                      15032        46.2                  5.2       17                    2891         265
Services                       7636        23.4                  5.0       17                    1527         140
UTnallocated                                                      1.4       5
Total/Average            .                                - 
T2/A a     100.0                  29.9    100.0                   1089        100.0
GOVEPPC;E!T FINANCE
General Gorernment                               Central Gcver osent
(N   MIn.)            o  GDP?                   T      Ml.)            of -D?
19.7Z/7A       19L778  1976/7-1977/S             1977/8        19'77/     1976/7-77_
Current Receipts                   :8809           34.1         34.8                 8359          32.3           32.:7
Current Expenditurs                 5047           19.5         19.0                 2697          10.4           10.0
Current Surplus                    3762            14.6         15.8                 5662           =. 7        -57 
Capital Exrenditures               8822            34.1         33.0                 6287          24.3           24.4
Exteria1 Assistance (net)
MO1EY, CREDIT and PPICES                   1972        1973         1974         19           L97        1977
(Million  N  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      1161.4       1414.1      2156.3       3622.5       5278.9    7067.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                519.0        497.1     -1460.1      -1281.5        199.5    2094.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               750.2        854.4      1070.2       1786.1       2417.8    3514.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.1         15.9         14.9       21.9         26.7      27.3
General Price Index (1960 = 100)            172.9        203.9        217.0      289,6        352.4    423.1
Annual cercentage changes in:
General Price Index                          -3.5         17.9          6,3       33,5         21.7      21.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -2.3         -4.2         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.    n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                26.9         12.7        26.6        66.8         35.4      45.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Indey. of Urban Consuimer Prices
. Not applicable



-22-                                              ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 197s-77)
1975     1976      1977                                                   US $ Mln     ,
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           8623      10549    12639              Crude Oil                            9281        91.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           8149      10517    13236              Cocoa Products                        180         3.7
Resource Ga- (deficit =           7-4      -32      -597              Palm Products                          44          .5
Tin                                    26          .3
interest Payments (net)          460        386       311            4.11 Other Commodities                 439         4.2
Workers' Remittances               -         -          -
Other Factor Payments (net)   -7L1         -676      -547
Net Transfers                   -125       -156      -184
Balance on Current Account        68       -414    -1018                     Total                        10170       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        410        340       440            EXTErNYAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 107         61        94                                                         US $ Mli
Amortization                  -34        -29       -61
Subtotal                       73         32        33              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               1284
Capital Grants                    *                     -               Non-Guaranteed 2rivate Debt
Other CarItal (net)             -254       -453      -110              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               - 40        +66      -199
Iacrease ir, Reserves (+)        257       -b29      -854            DFBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
7.
Gross Reserves (end year)      5896        5517      4617
Net Reserves   (end year)      5855        5426      4572               Public Debt. incl. guar-nteed              0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       162         280       212
of which:  Petroleum 
Exports                      7430        9468    10944
of which:  Petroleiim      7430        9468    10944       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31. 1978) (Killion US 0):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF ERX'AOUTGE
Outstanding & Disbursed                450          38.3
1975:  Y1.00  =  US$1.62                                           Undisbursed                             343          -
1.976:  Nl.00  =  US$1.60                                          Outstanding incl. Urdisbursed           79B         38.3
1977:  Nl.C0  =  US$1.55
1978:  NI.00  =  USS1.58
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-'Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
Not Available
January, 1979



-  2 3  -                                   ANNEX II
23   -                        ~~~~~~~Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of March 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit                                                                 US$ million
Number     Year      Borrower     Purpose                       Amount (less cancellations)
Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Eleven loans and two credits fully disbursed                   312.1      35.5
427       1965      Nigeria       Roads                        14.5                2.5
764       1971     Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                     7.2                 .0
814       1972      Nigeria      Education                     17.3                4.1
838       1972      Nigeria      Roads                         26.3               11.4
847       1972      NEPA         Power                         76.0                2.5
922       1973      NPA          Port                          55.0               11.2
929       1973      Nigeria      Education                     54.0               47.8
1045       1974      Nigeria      Cocoa Dev.                    20.0                7.1
1091       1975      Nigeria      Livestock                     21.0               17.1
1092       1975      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Funtua             29.0                5.1
1099       1975      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Gusau              19.0                2.5
1103       1975      Nigeria      Rice Dev.                     17.5               11.0
1164       1975      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Gombe              21.0                5.8
1183       1975      Nigeria      M.W. State Oil Palm           29.5               26.8
1191       1976      Nigeria      E.C. State Oil Palm           19.0               16.6
1192       1976      Nigeria      W. State Oil Palm             17.0               13.8
1454       1977      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Lafia              27.0               23.7
1455       1977      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Ayangba            35.0               31.7
*1591       1978      Nigeria      Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil   30.0                  30.0
1597       1978      NIDB         Industrial Dev.               60.0               60.0
Total                                     907.4      35.5    330.7
Of which has been repaid                  121.5       1.8
Total outstanding 1/                      785.9      33.7
Amount sold                      16.8
of which bas been repaid         16.4       0.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA**          785.5      33.7      _
Total undisbursed                         330.7        .0    330.7
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31. 1979)
Fiscal                              Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.  Textile Mfg.           1.0     0.6       1.6
1970
1964        Nigeria Industrial   Dev. Fin. Co.                  1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973        Funtua Cottonseed    Veg. Oil               1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.         Crushing
1973        Nigerian Aluminum    Aluminum               1.0     0.3      1.3
Extrusion Ltd.        Processing
1974        Lagiagi Sugar         Sugar                         0.1      0.1
Estates
Total Gross Commitments                    3.6      2.4      6.0
Less cancellations                       0.3               0.3
Less sold or repaid                      1.8     1.5       3.3
Total Commitments now held by IFC          1.5      0.9      2.4
Undisbursed                                 -      0.1       0.1
* Not yet Effctive
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
l/Excluding cancellations of 5.0.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 427-UNI       Western Nigeria Road Project:  US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 814-UNI       Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date:  November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Disruptions caused by the creation of new State Governments in 1976
are no longer delaying the project. While satisfactory progress is being made
in the implementation of the project in three of the four participating
States, the current financial constraints have affected part of the project
in Imo State.
Loan No. 838-UNI       Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
Loan No. 847-UNI       Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed by August 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 922-UNI       Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now on order and
will be in operation by the end of 1979. Total project costs are much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
A revision of the tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the
financial situation of the National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI       Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more.
Project administration was complicated by the partition of many states
in 1976. Discussions are being held between the Bank and the Government with
a view to strengthening the project administration and making adequate provi-
sions for timely counterpart funding. Once these issues have been resolved
satisfactorily, a proposed revision of the project scope and extension of the
closing date will be submitted to the Board for consideration.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and mangerial problems, the project is almost completed in three of the four
states. Progress of the Bendel State component is now better because manage-
ment/organizational problems have been reduced.
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart
funding from the Federal Government have been encountered. A contract has
recently been concluded with a management consulting firm and, as a result,
prospects for project implementation are greatly improved.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily.  A
proposed second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State is being
appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and appraisal
objectives are being met and in some cases exceeded. Project unit costs are
some 25 percent above appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation.
There have been problems relating to the timely delivery of fertilizer
supplies which are centrally procured by the Federal Government. Recent
agreements between the Bank and the Government on the streamlining of
fertilizer procurement should help to resolve this problem. The possibility
of a second phase project is being examined.
Loan No. 1103-UNI    Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross Rivers State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Plans to reallocate the
remaining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States where physical
project progress is more satisfactory, will depend upon improved counterpart
funding.
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. Problems in recruiting intermediate and junior staff continue.
There have been no delays in the provision of local counterpart funds. The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second-stage project to
cover the remainder of Bauchi State is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:
US$29.5 million Loan of December 31, 1975;
Effective Date: October 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal
targets have not been met for the smallholder component as a result of
financial and managerial problems. Management has improved recently but
planting targets are behind schedule. Cost overruns are likely to be
substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new states
and due to problems with intermediate and junior staffing. The latter have now
been resolved, but there are problems of local counterpart funding. Appraisal
targets have not been met and substantial cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component is progressing well but planting is
lagging behind appraisal targets, although the final target is likely to be
achieved. Problems with estate land acquisition and funding delayed effec-
tiveness and will result in a reduced planted area.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The initial problems of inadequate local counterpart funding have
now been overcome. Despite some difficulties in establishing extension and
training services, overall project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After experiencing some problems of local counterpart funding the
project is now progressing satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project:
US$30 million Loan of June 6, 1976; Effective Date:
June 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding towards effectiveness and physical progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 million
Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first sub-loan has
been processed and approved.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 3 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:  Commonwealth Development
Corporation.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1975
(d)  Date of first Bank Mission to consider the project: February 1976
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  February 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  November 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Federal Government will legally establish ARMTI in a form
and with power and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
(Condition of Loan Effectiveness para. 37).
(b)  The Federal Government will open a commercial bank account for
ARMTI with an initial deposit of N 650,000 (Condition of Loan
Effectiveness para. 56).
(c)  A managment contract for the establishment, staffing and operation
of ARMTI during its initial phase be concluded in a form satis-
factory to the Bank and be duly executed (Condition of Loan Effec-
tiveness para. 46).
(d)  Senior staff of ARMTI will be appointed with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 46).
(e)  Pending the construction of campus facilities, the Federal
Government will provide temporary office buildings and will rent
adequate accommodation for Institute staff during the "start-up"
phase of the project (para. 47).
(f)  Consultants appointed under a management contract will prepare
course curricula acceptable to the Bank and to FMG no later than
December 31, 1979 (para. 46).






]BRD 13708RR
A   CHAD                        ~~~NIGEI
7                                                         7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
-'*  ~ ~ '*-*-                           k~~~n  Ch~~t1            E.isting, Appraised arnd Under Preparation
g-r.00                                                                                  Agricltural Developm,ent.
Lot,. (Loon 454-SNI)
5                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ayo-gbo (Loe 1455-UNI)
G.sou Loan 1099-LNIEJ
P.fi~~~~~~~~~~k- ~~~~~APPRA tED-
)                                                                                                                                                            j                  EL,li AkokolOrdol, Dcv Nolk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eit  kk(Od),O.   -
UDIERt PREPARATION
-J                                                                                                                1-6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ov, S-ol
-              Dvsoo- Enneor-
b   A   U   C  I                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kono Stone
0g~r
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(erri                                                                                                  Train rg Proirict.
K                   ~~~~~~APPRAISED
I  A   LI                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tree Crvp Pro1ects-
TERRITORY                                                                                                         C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...~~~~Rne Oil PoL-  Loon45-UNI)
ZAF,A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                   Io.d 0.1 P.ln  vo ttL- II2NI)
I                          ~~~~~~~~~Ri-rn Stote DI1 Pn,, (Loo  1.525-UNI)
APPRAISED).
UNDER PREPARATION
JTAi'                VA /V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ,~n~N  robnnonan s Evobt
~~nvenne    -                                       [    Leorn~~~~~~C-   R,vri EvItle
pwi                                                                                                                                                           t,                          P,.Iect.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rioiriPoet
en                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
R-nn    no  (L.- 103N UNI
0  CR                        *~~~~~~~~       -              ,            10001  1fe       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        U~    Nol,o-I L,v-t-ok Prvdoli- C.v Ronhe,
STAZ~~~~  nAooReRooE  ~~~~~~~~~                    .~~~cv~~~ri~Weetlrnr Li-n-1o, Co R-cihEe
C RE SET  OLA                           mtetb , -                        vet o'oso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.t    's   N        A      NorIk-E.-irn C. R-nh-e
4,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~mn                                                                                                                                                                             -. 0I0on~SnS   eR' ~ ~     nel/P-elore In-esigofionCri  Erle
-                    OCIRE~~~~~~~~~~G-g                               -    .rh,
~~~~~~e14A,                      eS~ 
e..   ~~~~~,.  v   .r c,   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                         -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



