Document of                                     Wry
The World Bank                     FVLt  CDP1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1697-UNI
APPRAISAL OF
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
NIGERIA
May 23, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1.00        =  NO.65
Nl.OO          =  US$1.54
ABBREVIATIONS
ARMTI    -    Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
CCTV     -    Closed Circuit Television
FMARD    -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG      -    Federal Military Government of Nigeria
MAMC     -    Mananga Agricultural Management Center (Swaziland)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1  -  March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  .................................                             i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ............................................                                    1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..............................................                                    1
Nigeria  ...........              ....................................                    1
Economic  Trends  .......................................                                 1
Agricultural  Sector  ...................................                                2
Development  Strategy  ...................................                                2
Bank Role  in Agricultural  Sector  Lending  ....                      ..........        3
Management  as  a Constraint  to Agricultural  Development.                               3
III.      THE  PROJECT  .............................................                                  5
Project  Objectives  ....................................                                 5
Project  Components  ....................................                                5
Detailed  Features  .....................................                                6
Establishment  of  the  Institute  ........................                               6
Training  Program  ......................................                                6
Training  Approach  .....................................                                7
The Courses .........................                                                    9
Selection  of  Trainees  .................................                              11
Consultancy  Function  of  the  Institute  ....                     .............       11
Buildings  and  Facilities  ..............................                              11
Management  Contract  ...................................                               12
IV.     COST  ESTIMATES  AND  FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  ....                       ...........       13
Financial Arrangements .......................                                          14
Procurement  ...........................................                                15
Disbursements  .........................................                                15
Budgets, Accounts and  Audits  ..........................                               16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. B.M. Woods, A.J. Ody (Bank), M.K. Baig, C.J. Maguire and
J. Wilson (Consultants). Mr. R. Simsolo (Bank) also contributed to the
report at Headquarters.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  (Continued)                                                                         Page  No.
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .............................                                   17
Board  of  Governors  ....................................                                17
Organization  ..........................................                                  17
Staffing  ..............................................                                 17
Implementation  ........................................                                 18
Evaluation  ............................................                                  18
Post  Project  Development  ..............................                                19
VI.      BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS  .......................                                19
Risks .          .................................................    20
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS  AND  AGREEMENTS  REACHED  ..................                                21
CHARTS
18086      -     Institute  Organization                                  46
18087   -   Implementation Program                                        47
ANNEXES
ANNEX  I    Categories  of  Target  Population  and  Identified  Needs  ....                                23
Chart - Schematic Representation of Management
Skills Required at Different Managerial
and  Supervisory  Levels  ........................                            27
ANNEX  2    Training  Approach,  Details  of  Courses,  and  Course
Content  ...............................................                                 28
ANNEX  3    Staff  for  the  Institute  .................................                                   38
Attachment 1 - Senior Training Specialists -
Qualifications  and  Experience  ....                 ......       42
Training Specialists -
Qualifications  and  Training  ....                 ........       43
ANNEX  4    Site,  Buildings  and  Equipment  ...........................                                  48
Attachment  1 - Teaching  Equipment  .....................                                53



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                                     Page No.
ANNEX 5 Project Cost Tables: Index .54
Table 1 Summary of Project Costs .55
Table  2  Site Preparation and Services .56
Table 3 Project Buildings .57
Table  4  Vehicles, Furniture and Equipment .58
Table  5  Academic Salaries, Training and Consultants                 59
Table  6  Administrative Salaries and Wages .60
Table 7 Recurrent Costs .61
Table 8 Cash Flow .62
Table 9 Financing Plan .63
Table 10  Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan                       64
ANNEX 6 Management Contract .65
I. Draft Invitation to Consultants .65
II. Description of the Project .67
III. Terms of Reference .69
MAP IBRD 13708R1






NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
Bank assistance to finance the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural
Management Training Institute which would provide training in management
skills for managerial and supervisory staff in all sectors of the agricultural
industry. Following discussions during 1975/76 between FMG and the Bank
concerning management training needs in Nigeria, the Commonwealth Development
Corporation was commissioned to prepare a proposal for the establishment of a
Management Training Institute.   A report issued in September 1976 became the
preparation document for the proposed project. Subsequently a Bank appraisal
mission visited Nigeria in February/March 1977.
ii.       Since 1970, Nigeria has experienced rapid growth of the non-
agricultural sectors accompanied by an increase in domestic food prices and
a decline in traditional export-oriented cash crops. Importation of food
and live animals during the period 1970 to 1977 rose from N60 million to
N780 million. However, Government is aware of the need to improve performance
in agriculture, and public investment in the sector has risen dramatically in
recent years. Since 1971 the Bank has approved sixteen projects in the agri-
cultural sector with a total loan amount of US$373.2 million, and further
projects are under preparation. In the revised Third Five Year Plan N3.0
billion has been earmarked by FMG for the agricultural sector, however
because of a falloff in oil revenues investment targets have not been met.
iii.      This huge program of investment in the agricultural and rural sector,
together with the intensification of agricultural practices, and expansion and
development of support services, calls for substantial strengthening of man-
agement capacity at all levels within the sector. At present, the existing
agricultural training institutions are not staffed or equipped to train
practicing managers for the agricultural industry in management skills, and
the only organizations involved in management training are either solely
oriented towards the needs of commerce and industry, or towards the management
and business components of degree studies. There is therefore, a very urgent
need in Nigeria to develop a capability to provide training for staff in
managerial and supervisory positions in agriculture and rural administration
in a broad range of management skills. Experience in management training has
shown that, to be effective, training in management skills has to be highly
problem-oriented and job specific, and that, within any organization, the
training of staff at one level of management in isolation has little success
in changing management practices. The approach adopted in the proposed
project takes account of these findings.



- ii -
iv.        The project would help to finance the establishment of an Agricul-
tural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI) including the training
of the necessary teaching staff, and the evaluation of the Tri)tit7-'S ne-
formance.  The Institute would offer two "mainstream" course,; for staff in
middle management and second line supervisory positions, arnd a third mainstream
course to train trainers from agricultural and rural administ:ration organiza-
tions who would then train first line supervisory staff within their respec-
tive organizations. The annual enrollment on a variety of courses is expected
to total about 560.
v.         Implementation of the project would take five years.  The Institute
would be administered by a Board of Governors and would be a legal entity
established by the Government.  A Director would be responsible for the
establishment and operation of the Institute and he, three Senior Training
Specialists, a Senior Media Specialist (to head an Audio Visual Production
Unit) and the Administrative Secretary would be recruited internationally to
serve until Nigerians were trained to replace them.
vi.        Project costs are estimated at US$18.2 million and a 20-year Bank
loan of US$9.0 million is proposed (including a 5-year grace period), which
is equivalent to the foreign exchange component and would firnance 55% of the
costs net of taxes. Vehicles, furniture and equipment valued at US$840,000
would be procured through international competitive bidding i-or any contracts
valued over US$100,000, and through local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank for contracts of less than US$100,000.
The construction of campus buildings estimated at US$6.0 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitve bidding. For contracts of
less than US$30,000 direct competitive shopping would be employed.  A portion
of project costs would be for salaries, operating expenses, and local training
costs. The services of expatriate staff would be obtained through a manage-
ment contract with an international organization and the terms of this con-
tract, and the procurement of the services of consultants, would be obtained
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Disbursement of the
Bank loan would be against fully documented papers.
vii.       The project is expected to improve management practices not only
in all sectors of the agricultural industry, principally in State Ministries
of Agriculture, State Development Corporations and IBRD-assisted projects,
but also management of those Local Government Councils that are related to
rural development projects. Better management should achieve higher produc-
tivity generally, greater job satisfaction and therefore Less turnover of
staff in supervisory and management positions, improved staff morale and
hence an increased competitiveness for the agricultural industry in attract-
ing new staff, and a greater ability on the part of management within the
sector to anticipate changes, adjust to new situations, and benefit from new
opportunities. Thus, this project should support all ongoing programs and
benefit all new agricultural and rural development efforts irn Nigeria.
viii.      On the basis of the assurances that were obtained during negotia-
tions, and are set out in Chapter VII, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$9.0 million.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
Bank assistance to finance a program to strengthen the management capability
within the agricultural and rural sector. This would be achieved by intro-
ducing modern concepts of participative management, which have been widely
successful in improving management in industry and commerce but so far have
been less widely used in agriculture. The program would involve the develop-
ment of an Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute including
its physical establishment, staffing, operations and curriculum development.
By increasing management capability and improving management practices in
Nigeria, the project would have far reaching effects upon the agricultural
industry in the country.
1.02      Following discussions between FMG and the Bank on the need for
agricultural management training, the Commonwealth Development Corporation was
commissioned to prepare a proposal for agricultural management training in
Nigeria based on its own experience with the establishment and operation of
the Mananga Agricultural Management Center in Swaziland (MA4MC). A report
issued in September 1976 became the preparation document for the project.
Subsequently a Bank appraisal mission comprising Messrs. B.M. Woods, A.J. Ody
(Bank), M.K. Baig, C.J. Maguire (IBRD Projects, Nigeria), and J. Wilson
(Consultant) visited Nigeria during February/March 1977.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States and
covers a total land area of 924,000 km . Total 1977 population is estimated at
roughly 79 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the African continent.
Average GDP per capita (estimated at around US$420 in 1977) is low and un-
evenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably lower.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 30% of GDP, over 90% of export earnings and
80% of Government revenue. The increase in oil prices in 1973/74 enabled the
Government to embark on a massive investment program and this contributed to
GNP growth averaging 6% per annum between 1973 and 1977. However, growth
was concentrated in those sectors that benefited in particular from the rapid
expansion in Government expenditure, i.e., infrastructure, education and
large scale manufacturing, and performance of the productive sectors, notably
agriculture, has been disappointing.



- 2 -
2.03      The unprecedented rise in public spending (federal current expendi-
ture increased from US$1.1 billion in 1973-74 to US$4.2 billion in 1977-78,
and capital expenditure from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion) quickly
exhausted the oil-produced internal and external surpluses, and Nigeria now
faces considerable fiscal and balance of payments constraints. The economy
was unable to generate goods and services at the rate demanded, and con-
sequently the domestic price level rose by an average of 26% per annum between
1975 and 1977. Oil production in Nigeria is not expected to rise much above
the present level during the 1980's, and overall growth prospects for the
economy are therefore considered modest.
2.04      Agricultural Sector.  Approximately 61% of Nigeria's population
is dependent on agriculture, which accounts for about 23% of GDP, 5% of
total export earnings and 62% of non-oil exports. Agricultural production
is almost entirely in the hands of smallholders whose levels of technology
and productive efficiency are low.
2.05      Nigerian farmers are poorly serviced and in general over-dependent
on Government for their requirements, whether they be feeder roads, water
supplies, farm inputs, credit, technical advice or research support.
Consequently, there is an urgent need for improvement in the provision of
such services if significant increases in agricultural production are to
be achieved.
2.06      The experience of ongoing agricultural projects financed by the
Bank demonstrates that farmers will respond well to economic incentives such
as profitable packages of improved technology, and efficiently managed agri-
cultural support services. However, such services can only be supplied on
a broader scale if management capability within Nigeria can be significantly
improved.
2.07      Development Strategy.  Government is aware of the need to improve
performance in the agriculture sector and to invest the substantial revenues
from oil, an asset that is being depleted, to expand and diversify the rest of
the economy in which agriculture will remain a dominant sector for the fore-
seeable future. In the revised Third Five-Year Development Plan, a total of
N3.0 billion is earmarked for the sector, to support a targeted annual growth
rate of 5%, in contrast with the second five-year plan, when only an estimated
N50 million was invested in the sector. Various channels are being used to
implement the program of agricultural development.  In the northern states
integrated rural development projects have been pioneered, which make inputs
and extension advice available to small farmers, together with credit and
marketing facilities where necessary, and which are accompanied by road and
other infrastructure development. Meanwhile, the southern states' advantage
in tree crop production is being exploited by the development of new estate
projects, commonly linked to assistance for smallholder outgrowers, and
undertaken by a variety of federal, state and private bodies. The National
Grain Production Corporation has been established recently to implement a
program of grain production on large-scale units, while commercial banks and



- 3 -
the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperatve Bank are being used to finance
commercial and cooperative farming in the private sector. The Government is
now proceeding to extend the integrated rural development approach to the
states of the middle-belt, and the west. All forms of agro-services, e.g.
marketing, credit, input supply, farm machinery, etc., are being strengthened
to support these developments and these are competing for scarce trained and
experienced agricultural staff.
2.08      Concurrent to specific agricultural and rural development programs,
Government has initiated a series of far reaching local government reforms
that in effect place the long-term responsibilities for local government area
development in the hands of the newly formed Local Government Councils (LGCs).
These Councils will have considerable powers including responsibility for
social and infrastructural developments, provision of extension services to
farmers, health services, etc. In the long term the Councils are probably the
logical successors to take over some of the development responsibilities estab-
lished under the Bank-financed agricultural and rural development projects,
and to this end new Bank-assisted Projects will focus on the development of
agriculture within the LGC framework. However, the Councils are poorly
staffed and need considerable support both in technical and management train-
ing if they are to succeed.
2.09      Bank Role in Agricultural and Rural Sector Lending.  During the
nine fiscal years 1971-79, the Bank has approved 16 projects in the agriculture
sector: two in cocoa, US$27.2 million; seven in general agriculture, US$181
million; one in rice, US$17.5 million; one in livestock, US$21.0 million;
four in oil palm, US$95.5 million; and one in forestry, US$31.0 million. The
Bank is currently processing two general agricultural projects - Oyo North
and Ekiti-Akoko - that follow ongoing patterns, and a successor project to
the successfully implemented Funtua agricultural development project that
will impact on Kaduna State as a whole. The Bank is assisting in the
preparation of a third cocoa project, a statewide agricultural project for
Bauchi State, and a series of general agricultural and rural development
service projects in the eastern part of Nigeria.
2.10      Management as a Constraint to Agricultural Development.  The very
great increase in investment in the agricultural sector, together with the
creation of a number of new states and the revival of the estate sector, is
creating a great demand for trained staff, and for experienced managerial
and supervisory staff in particular. Meanwhile rapid development in non-
agricultural sectors is encouraging the drift of able people away from the
rural areas to more lucrative employment in the towns. This situation
accelerates promotion processes and, increasingly, young and inexperienced
people find themselves in positions with supervisory and managerial respon-
sibilities. Such factors tend to slow down the pace of development, and
have serious implications for the future. To implement development projects
in agriculture, the Government has recruited expatriate staff increasingly
in recent years. However, a long term solution will necessarily involve
management training for Nigerian agricultural management staff. Present
management education in the country almost entirely bypasses this target
group.



-4-
2.11      Management is not, of course, the only determining factor in the
success or failure of agricultural development projects. The standard of
original project design, the suitability of the technical packages proposed
and the degree of local political commitment as evidenced by supply of funds
and staff and more general support in implementation - all of these can be
crucial in deciding a project's effectiveness in meeting its targets. None-
theless, there is a widely recognized association between the quality of
senior management and the performance of a project, as measured for example
by effectiveness in meeting appraisal targets for production increases and
infrastructural development. Project management in contemporary Nigeria
is not an easy matter. Managers must, apart from dealing with a rapidly
changing economic and financial situation, face institutional, social and
political constraints that affect decision making and implementation and the
motivation of their staff. A strong sense of the overall strategy of project
development must be accompanied by a combination of decisiveness and flexi-
bility in meeting the frequent obstacles to progress. The Bank now has
considerable experience in Nigerian agriculture, and this confirms that
quality of management has been a key factor both in those projects which
exceeded their targets (northern agricultural development projects, cocoa
projects) and those which have failed to meet expectations (livestock project,
Cross River State rice project).
2.12      There is evidence, then, that a serious effort is required to teach
management skills to Nigerians working in the agricultural sector and this
will be initiated under the present project. However, no training program can
substitute for the improved motivation and incentives, or the other changes
needed to ensure the success of Nigeria's agricultural and rural development
programs.
2.13      Existing information on personnel indicates that the numbers in
the four recognized levels of management in need of training are as follows:
top managers (directors, permanent secretaries, executive secretaries) - 300;
middle managers (project managers, general managers of agricultural companies;
senior project and ministry staff, senior executive officers) - 1,400; second
line supervisors (field extension officers, local government officials, mar-
keting, credit, cooperative, community development officers, field engineers,
estate managers, commercial bank agricultural advisors, etc.) - 2,300; and
first line supervisors (staff with second line disciplines but at lower level)
- 6,000. These figures are believed to be conservative.
2.14      There is much movement within and between these categories, as well
as a high rate of wastage from them, as developments in other sectors create
attractive job opportunities for staff from the agricultural sector. Using
the above figures, the projected demand for replacement and additional manage-
ment staff over a ten-year period, based on the combined effect of an 8%
wastage rate at present, falling to 5% in ten years' time, an(d a 3% constant
yearly growth rate in the sector, shows that a further number equal to the
existing demand would need training.



-5 -
Existing      Total new demand       Total
demand   over a 10-year period    demand
Top Management                       300               300                600
Middle Managers                    1,400             1,400              2,800
Second Line Supervisors            2,300             2,300              4,600
First Line Supervisors             6,000             6,000             12,000
These figures underline the scale of the need for the development of an
agricultural management training capability to meet the training needs of
existing staff and of replacement and additional staff needed in the sector.
Further details of this demand, and of identified training needs, are shown in
Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01      The objective of the project would be the establishment of an
Institute to provide training in managerial and supervisory skills for staff
at all levels of agricultural and rural management. Trainees would be drawn
from all sectors of the agricultural industry, particularly from the Federal
and State Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources and ongoing Bank
financed agricultural projects, from related supply, marketing and credit
organizations; and from appropriate Local Government Councils.
3.02      By improving managerial and supervisory capability within the
agricultural industry, the project would:
(a) improve the effective administration of current agriculture
and rural development programs;
(b) increase the ability of the industry to achieve change and
development in the future; and
(c) make a lasting contribution to the institution building
process in the country.
Project Components
3.03      The project, to be implemented over five years, from 1979/80 to
1983/84, would establish a self-contained Agricultural and Rural Management
Training Institute by:
(a) constructing lecture rooms, offices, student accommodation,
staff houses and related site development; providing
necessary teaching and domestic furnishings and equipment,
and institute vehicles;



- 6 -
(b)  providing, under a management contract, with an experienced
international firm or consortium in management training,
24 man-years of technical assistance to fill six senior
positions at the Institute, to be responsible for the
establishment of the Institute, the recruitment of senior
staff, the training of Nigerian teaching staff, the prep-
aration of detailed course curricula, the training of
trainees in management skills, and the establishment of
an evaluation system;
(c)  providing fellowships for training up to 24 teaching staff
outside Nigeria; and
(d)  providing 25 man-months of support consultants to assist
with continuing course development work, to evaluate the
results program, and to recommend on the need for future
development of the facilities.
Detailed Features
Establishment of the Institute
3.04      The first stage in the establishment of the Institute would comprise
the construction of a residential campus at Ilorin (capital of Kwara State),
the recruitment of a suitably qualified senior staff, the training of Nigerian
teaching staff, and the development of courses and course material. Courses
are expected to start by the second quarter of PY2; after a minimum of
two years of training operations, an evaluation would be made of the initial
success of the training programs, and the demand for the type of training
provided. In the light of this evaluation, decisions would be taken on the
need for an expanded program and the possible establishment of a second
campus.
Training Program
3.05      The Institute would provide management training for managerial and
supervisory staff from a wide range of organizations within the agricultural
and rural sector (para 2.13). To enable training to influence management
practices in the organizations served, Institute staff would arrange specific
training programs for individual organizations ensuring that all levels of
management were covered, including Top Managers, Middle Managers, Second Line
Supervisors, and Trainers to train First Line Supervisors fro;n each organiza-
tion in that order. Each program would be tailored to meet the identified
needs of each organization. In practice, similar organizations would often
share courses as case study material and teaching examples would suit them
equally. Participants for individual courses would be selected on the basis
of type of organization, level of seniority, nature of responsibilities, and
geographical location.



-7-
Training Approach
3.06      The main function of the Institute would be to train managers and
supervisors in the agricultural and rural sector to become more effective in
the management skills of their existing posts. It would not run "promotion
courses" or provide general educational or technical courses that can be
provided at conventional educational institutions. Rather it would supply
the necessary knowledge to improve management skills and would concentrate on
practicing the skills within tested management modules. Effective training
involves changing behavior requiring the combination of understanding (know-
ledge) and skills development (by supervised practice). While the success of
any training will depend on the trainee's understanding of the basic theory
and purpose of specific tasks, the opportunity to practice the skills, under
supervision, will be absolutely crucial to the training program both at the
Institute and through on-job supervision.
3.07      In management training, on-the-job conditions can only be simulated
at institutes, with the use of case studies, workshops, training exercises,
etc. An effective training program should therefore combine a "classroom"
component, where attitudes are changed, understanding increased and trainees
are introduced to improved techniques with an on-the-job component where
actual performance is improved and can be measured against evaluation cri-
teria.
3.08      In recognition of the special needs of management training, new
approaches to various aspects of management training have been developed
and proven in many parts of the world, and this experience has been drawn
upon in the preparation of the project. This experience has shown that
programs which achieve rapid improvements in management performance have
four essential ingredients:
-    accurate identification of needs for specific management
skills;
-    increased knowledge by managerial staff of improved
management processes and techniques;
-    on-the-job follow-up of trainees to ensure that they
practice the new techniques; and
-    training and orientation of supervisors of trainees so
that they can provide supervision and reinforcement to
trainees in practicing their new techniques and, thus,
achieve lasting behavioral change.
3.09      A new management training program for the agricultural and rural
sector in Nigeria must be able to ensure these ingredients. The proposed
Institute would achieve this through:



- 8 -
-    close working relationships with employers so that training
needs in different organizations can be clearly identified
(the skills needed by a senior extension officer, for example,
are different from those needed by a plantation estate manager),
and so that an understanding of, and a commitment to, the
training agreed to on the part of the employer can be achieved;
the establishment at the Institute of a visual aid production
unit capable of preparing case study material for use in train-
ing courses. This would enable a course for ranch managers
to work on examples from ranches in Nigeria; a course for
credit supervisors to study relevant case material from their
field, and so on. No such case study material for agriculture
exists in Nigeria at present;
-    curricula and instructional material developed on a modular
basis to enable maximum flexibility in course design. Thus,
if a group of staff in one organization needed training in,
say, finance and budgeting appropriate to estate management,
plus office management, planning, and interpersonal skills;
whilst another group from a different organization required
a course concentrating on planning, goal setting, decision-
making, administrative skills and book/record keeping relevant
for marketing organizations, plus interpersonal skills for
supervisors, the Institute would be able to construct courses
appropriate to each organization's needs by selecting and
combining relevant modules which would each have its prepared
teaching materials;
-    the design of the teaching facilities which will enable maximum
flexibility of use so that workshops for interpersonal skills
training, lectures and practicals on budgeting and bookkeeping,
case study work and simulation exercises can all be accommodated
equally well.
3.10      To supplement the inhouse training of the Institute, Government
would, with the assistance of Institute staff, locate experienced local or
foreign companies managing, for example, palm oil estates, sugar estates,
forest industries, ranches, etc., which would be willing and able to train
graduates from the Institute in practical enterprise specific management.
Formal contracts would be entered into by Government and the companies, and
the Institute would be responsible for monitoring the training progress. The
project includes 35 man-years for such training at approximately N15,000 per
man-year (inclusive of training fees, travel, and board and lodging expenses).
3.11      Details of the training approach and courses to be offered by the
Institute are shown in Annex 2, but do not include detailed curricula, as
the content of courses would need to be highly flexible to meet the varying
training needs of staff from different sectors of the agricultural industry.
Courses would be constructed on a modular basis and a detailed curriculum for



- 9 -
each module would need to be prepared, within the parameters set by the train-
ing approach, early in the project cycle. By December 31, 1979, consultants
appointed under the management contract (para 3.23), would prepare course
curricula acceptable to the Bank and FMG. As normal academic practice dic-
tates, the Senior Training Specialists once in post would proceed to put the
"flesh" onto the "bones" of the curricula by developing case studies and other
more detailed teaching material. Two other points are of major importance in
the project concept:
-    the staffing of the Institute would be sufficient to enable
on-the-job follow-up of participants from every course.
At lower levels of management, the Institute would train
instructors who would conduct most of the follow-up training
and would themselves be the subject of following visits by
Institute staff; and
-    as this is the first time that this modern approach has been
applied to training of agricultural and rural managers on a
large scale in West Africa, a substantial evaluation component
has been included in the project. This would measure the
effectiveness of the training and should provide data to
help other countries in planning similar programs and enable
constant improvement of the training provided by the Institute.
The Courses
3.12      Top managers would attend seminars at which the content of training
programs for their subordinate managerial and supervisory staff would be de-
scribed, and their own role in furthering good management practices in their
organizations and reinforcing their staff's training discussed. Short spe-
cialized courses would be arranged for top managers as necessary.
3.13      There would be three "mainstream" courses at the Institute:
(a) Middle Managers: 10 weeks - including two one-week periods
of field study involving supervised assignments on selected
"guided experience" locations either in the public or the
private sector. These would be selected, well managed
organizations where students would be given specific
assignments exposing them to actual management problems
and approaches to decision making.
(b) Second Line Supervisors: 4 weeks. The content of this
course could vary to meet the needs of different organiza-
tions and would not cover the breadth of training needed
at the middle management level (see Chart 1, Annex 1).



- 10 -
(c) Training Trainers: 4 weeks. Designated trainers, who would
have first completed one of the other two mainstream courses,
would be trained to train First Line Supervisors within their
own organization in a few important management techniques -
predominantly in the field of interpersonal skills. After
conducting this training for a period, successful trainers
would return for further courses at the Institute to enable
them to handle additional training modules. Specialist
trainers might at a later stage be able to play a role in
the follow-up activities for colleagues who had attended
courses at the Institute.
3.14      All mainstream courses at the Institute would incorporate a follow-
up reinforcement component in which either participants would return to the
Institute for a brief seminar, or staff from the Institute would meet groups
of participants at convenient locations in the field. At these seminars
individuals' successes and difficulties in applying their training would be
discussed, and advice and further instruction given. All teaching staff
would participate in this follow-up work, and it would involve a significant
portion of their time. In the case of the training of trainers, the follow-
up would be of particular importance in view of the very large numbers of
supervisory staff whom the trainers would be able to influence.
3.15      During the first two teaching years, the number of courses would be
restricted while teaching staff gain experience, teaching aids are produced
and tested, and working relationships with employers established. After this
period it would be possible to increase the number of courses as shown in the
following table:
Course   Enrollment   Courses    Courses    Enrollment/
Length   per course   per year   per year           year
(weeks)     (No.)       (first 2    (full         (full
years)   operation)  operation)
Middle Managers           10         30             3           3            90
Second Line
Supervisors              4         18            8          14            252
Trainers                   4         14            2            4            56
Seminars, etc.             1         20             6           8           160
Total                                                            558
Following their courses the trainers would train first line supervisory staff
within their organization and the multiplier effect on their training would
greatly increase the numbers effectively reached by the Institute.
3.16      The seasonal nature of agricultural activities means that most staff
would be available at the quiet periods of the year, so that all three courses
would have to be run concurrently at certain times of the year, while the
residential facilities would not be fully utilized at other times. During the



- 11 -
latter periods special courses would be run for those Local Government Council
working with identified rural development projects; and teaching staff would
conduct most of their course preparation work, as well as follow-up training
which would involve them in instructional visits and seminars away from the
campus (Annex 2). The Institute facilities would, if not fully utilized, be
available at such times for other courses; for example, neither the Nigerian
Institute of Management nor the Center for Management Development have residen-
tial facilities of their own, and at present they hire hotel or other accommo-
dation for their courses. Such courses, together with the seminars and short
specialized courses mentioned above, would fully utilize the residential and
teaching facilities of the Institute.
Selection of Trainees
3.17      Due to the expected high demand within Nigeria, selected trainees
would initially be confined to Nigerians. The consultants, in consultation
with the Board of the Institute, would establish guidelines for selection of
trainees, and the Board would monitor the operation of selection criteria
through a six-monthly report to be submitted by the Director.
Consultancy Function of the Institute
3.18      Many management training institutions provide a management advisory
function in addition to their teaching role. While this is helpful to the
teaching staff and to the prestige of the institution, it would not form an
aspect of the new Institute's function during its first two years of opera-
tion because all the energies of the teaching staff would be required to
develop the new training programs, courses and support material. There would
be great risks of diluting this effort to the detriment of the training if
formal consultancy activities were started too early, and a decision on the
Institute's formal consultancy role would therefore be deferred until after
the Institute is in full operation.
3.19      However, training in management skills is not a panacea for improved
management practice, for, particularly in large organizations such as State
Ministries of Agriculture, organizational constraints may hamper effective
management at least as much as lack of management skills. While identifying
training needs, staff from the Institute would also attempt to identify
organizational weaknesses and make top management aware of the constraints
these weaknesses impose. Through this process, and by the training of staff
and follow-up work in close communication with top management personnel,
teaching staff from the Institute would perform a certain management consul-
tancy function, but in an informal manner.
Building and Facilities
3.20      A residential hostel would accommodate 64 students; teaching staff
and key administrative staff would also be housed on campus. Design and layout
of the buildings would allow for future expansion of the facilities. The
range of course participants would include very senior managers, and the
institute buildings would provide a standard of accommodation suitable for
such people, but without involving elaborate architecture.



- 12 -
3.21      The nature of modern management training requires much teaching and
analysis work in small groups, and teaching buildings would include sufficient
seminar and tutorial rooms to allow the necessary flexibility of use for
small group tuition. Course work would include a certain amount of required
reading; a small library would provide 20 reader places. The buildings
and facilities would be designed, and their construction supervised by a
suitably experienced Nigerian firm of architects and it is understood that FMG
has already identified a reputable firm for the purpose. Costs for design and
supervision are allowed for within the civil works component of project costs.
As in all projects, Bank disbursements would be only made against approved
architectural designs, and in the context of procurement procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Details of buildings and equipment are shown in Annexes 4
and 5.
3.22      The teaching would make use of case studies and other audio visual
materials involving films, film strips and video tape. Little or no suitable
material is currently produced in Nigeria, and a major task of the Institute
would be to develop its own case studies and other teaching aids. An Audio
Visual Unit would be established at the Institute, and would include a work-
shop, technical staff and a suitably equipped vehicle. Upon completion of
their training, trainers of the First Line Supervisors would receive course
guidelines and support material to assist them in their training roles, most
of which would be produced by the Institute. Details of the Audio Visual
Unit are shown in Annex 2.
Management Contract
3.23      In order to implement this innovative project rapidly and effec-
tively, FMG is about to negotiate with a firm of international repute and a
proven record in the field of practical management training, selected on the
basis of Bank guidelines. The contract requires the consultant firm to
establish, staff and operate the training institute in the initial phase. The
resident staff provided by the firm are estimated to cost (details at Annex 5,
Table 5) about US$7,000 per man-month (inclusive of company fees and over-
heads). Under the contract the consultants would be responsible for:
-    setting up and establishing the Institute including
the selection of staff, liaison with architects, and
the preparation of documents for the procurement of
goods and services required by the Institute;
-    identification of specific management training needs
in a sample of typical agricultural organizations to
be served by the Institute, and the preparation of
detailed curricula for training modules to be used
to meet these needs;
-    organization of training, both locally and overseas,
of Nigerian staff who are selected to fill teaching
and support positions at the Institute;
-    teaching courses in management techniques as laid out
in the curriculum;



- 13 -
the establishment of evaluation procedures to make the
systematic evaluation of training effectiveness a per-
manent feature of the Institute's activities; and
an overall evaluation of the achievements of the
Institute after two years of operation that could be
used in conjunction with a review by the Bank and
Federal Government in deciding on expansion of facili-
ties and/or the establishment of a new campus.
3.24      A condition of loan effectiveness would be the formalization
of a management contract (para 3.23) acceptable to the Bank.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.01      The total project cost would be N11.8 million (US$18.2 million),
of which N5.8 million (US$9.0 million) would represent the foreign exchange
element, to be financed under a Bank loan. The cost net of indirect tax
would be N10.6 million (US$16.4 million). Base costs are expressed in
estimated end of 1978 terms. Physical contingencies are calculated at 5%
of base costs. Price contingencies, which are calculated on the sum of base
costs and physical contingencies, are estimated at 20% compounded annually for
local construction and operating costs, 13% annually for local salaries; at
6% compounded annually for vehicles and equipment and 7% compounded annually
for academic salaries, training and consultants. A summary of total project
costs is shown below, full details are in Annex 5.
Summary of Project Costs
(Figures rounded to N'000)
N'000                      US$'000
Total   Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign   Local
Civil works and
construction                3,910    1,563    2,347    6,021    2,407    3,614
International staff
and consultants             1,450    1,450       -       2,233    2,233         -
Fellowships                     725       462       263    1,117       712       405
Local staff                     772        77       695    1,189       119    1,070
Vehicles, furniture
and equipment                 546       293       253      841       451       390
Operating costs                 844       225       619    1,300       347       953
Base cost                     8,247    4,070    4,177   12,701    6,269    6,432
Contingencies:  physical        412       202       210      634       311       323
price        3,156    1,547    1,609    4,860    2,382    2,478
Total Project Cost           11,815    5,819    5,996   18,195    8,962    9,234



- 14 -
4.02       Project costs and price contingencies have been calculated on the
assumption that the exchange rate between the naira and the dollar will remain
fixed at 1.54 throughout the project period. This closely reflects the ex-
perience of recent years during which time the exchange rate changed rela-
ively little despite a rate of domestic inflation in Nigeria which consistently
exceeded international inflation by a significant margin.
4.03      The estimates of project cost in dollar terms would be affected by
a change in exchange rate policy. If, for example, there were to be a 20%
devaluation to compensate for the system of import duties and export incentives
currently in force and if the exchange rate were to be adjusted thereafter to
compensate fully for the difference between domestic and international infla-
tion projected for future years, then the local component of project costs
would be lower when expressed in dollar terms. Under these assumptions the
local component of project costs would amount to US$6.3 million compared with
the US$9.2 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate. Total
project cost would, therefore, amount to only US$15.2 million (compared with
US$18.2 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate), and the
share of total project cost financed by the Bank loan would be 59% (compared
with 49% estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate).
4.04      The cost of providing the type of management training proposed in
this report is inevitably higher than the cost of conventional primary, second-
ary or even university level education. The essential reason for this is
that concentrated courses for senior and middle-level staff call for a high
staff-student ratio, and require high-powered, specialized (and in many cases,
internationally mobile) training staff. Furthermore, given the shortage of
professional-standard housing in Ilorin, it will be necessary to use project
funds to construct staff housing, and this alone accounts for more than 25%
of project base costs. A further 24% of costs is accounted for by the "tech-
nical assistance" element of the project, the cost of internationally recruited
staff, consultancy and training for local staff.
4.05      Given the high element of technical assistance, and the concentrated,
high-level nature of the training, it would be inappropriate to compare the
costs of the present project with those of conventional schooling. The more
appropriate comparison is with the cost of providing management training else-
where in the world, including developed countries as there is no reason to
expect construction or senior staff costs to be any lower in Nigeria than
elsewhere. In this context, if buildings are depreciated over 30 years, and
expatriate staff are withdrawn after 5 years, then the average cost per
student/week over the whole life of the Institute is about N265 (US$408),
which is highly competitive with the cost of management training in other
countries and well below the average cost of recent management training
courses quoted for Nigeria.
Financial Arrangements
4.06      The proposed financing plan is shown below.  The Bank loan of
US$9.0 million (49O/ of project cost and net of taxes) would be equivalent
to the foreign exchange costs. The loan would be made to FMG over 20 years,



- 15 -
including 5 years grace on repayment. FMG would provide a further alloca-
tion, through annual one-line votes to FMAWR, equivalent to 47% of project
costs amounting to N5,496,000 (US$8.5 million). The balance of N500,000
would be through collection of student fees.
Financing Plan
N'000     US$'000
FMG                        5,496      8,425
IBRD                      5,819       9,000
Fees                         500        770
Total                     11,815     18,195
A detailed Financing Plan is at Annex 5 (Table 9).
4.07      Students would be charged boarding fees by the Institute designed
to cover food, laundry, maintenance, etc., but, in accordance with current
FMG policy, they would not be expected to make a contribution to costs of
tuition.
Procurement
4.08      Vehicles, furniture and equipment, valued at about NO.5 million
(US$0.8 million) net of contingencies would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines for contracts over
US$100,000, though there are likely to be few, if any, contracts of this
size, and through competitive bidding, and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, for contracts less than US$100,000. Contracts of
less than US$30,000 may be procured locally on the basis of competitive
quotations. Items for procurement would be bulked to permit optimum use of
competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15%
preference or the applicable import duty, whichever was the lower. The con-
tracts for civil works and construction, valued at N3.9 million (US$6.0 mil-
lion) net of contingencies, would be subject to international competitive
bidding but may prove too small to attract outside contractors. Costs such as
local salaries, operating expenses and staff training costs of N2.3 million,
(US$3.6 million) are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The services of
consultants and internationally recruited staff, valued at N1.5 million
(US$2.3 million) would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank. An amount of N3.6 million (US$5.5 million) would cover
contingencies.
Disbursements
4.09      The Bank loan would be disbursed during fiscal 1979-1984 as follows:
Category 1
100% of the cost of internationally recruited staff salaries
and allowances, of consultancy services and of training abroad



- 16 -
for the Institute's Nigerian staff and selected trainees, totalling
US$3.9 million.
Category 2
100% of the foreign exchange costs of vehicles, teaching equip-
ment, furniture and fixtures, and other mechanical or electrical
equipment, or 60% of the cost of such items if procured locally,
totalling US$0.6 million.
Category 3
45% of total cost of construction of civil works, totalling
US$3.5 million.
Category 4
An unallocated amount of US$1.0 million to cover contingencies.
Items submitted for disbursement will be fully documented. A schedule of
estimated disbursements is at Annex 5 (Table 10).
Budgets, Accounts and Audits
4.10      Annual budgets with quarterly allocations would be prepared by
the Institute for approval by its Board. Quarterly projections of cash
flow would be submitted to FMAWR, and the Institute would operate on the
basis of these quarterly plans unless informed otherwise. At negotiations an
assurance was obtained that, on the basis of the approved annual budgets,
the Federal Government would make its budgetary allocation, and there-
after would make available to the Institute all necessary funds quarterly and
in advance. A bank account for the Institute would be opened with an initial
deposit of N650,000, and this would be a condition of loan effectiveness;
an assurance was obtained during negotiations that FMG would authorize
reimbursement (against claims for disbursement submitted by the Institute to
the Bank) to be made directly to the Institute's bank account.
4.11      The Institute would keep records, in accordance with sound account-
ing practices, to reflect its operations and financial position, and would
have these audited by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to
the Bank. In addition, quarterly and annual progress reports would be prepared
for prompt submission to the Bank, and would include summaries of expenditure
and use of funds. The audited accounts and the auditor's report including a
statement as to whether Bank funds have been used for their intended purpose,
would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the financial
year. Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Board of Governors
5.01      The Institute would be controlled by a Board of Governors comprised
primarily of representatives of the user agencies. Among others, the Board
would include representatives of FMAWR, Federal Ministry of Finance, the
private sector agricultural industry, IBRD financed agricultural projects,
State Ministries of Agriculture, State corporations related to agriculture,
and the cooperative institutions. The Chairman, who would not be a govern-
ment employee, would be appointed by Government. The Chairman of the Board
would be responsible to the Federal Commissioner for Agriculture and
Water Resources.
5.02      The consultants would assist Government to prepare detailed articles
for the Board and its operations. It would be a condition of effectiveness
that Government had enacted a decree or some other legal instrument establish-
ing the Institute with terms of reference (articles) satisfactory to the
Bank.
Organization
5.03      The initial organization of the Institute would be compact and
simple, comprising two departments - Training and Administration. The
Training Department would comprise four main sections: Finance, General
Management, Interpersonal Skills and an Audio Visual Support Unit. The
Administrative Department would be responsible for institute support admin-
istration and would comprise three sections: Accounts, General Administra-
tion, and Catering and Hostel Management. The Director would head the
Institute staff and would initially be directly responsible for running the
Training Department. It is expected that after three years a Nigerian would
be promoted to Departmental Head of Training, thereby releasing the Director
to concentrate on the evaluation of the ongoing program and the needs of the
future. The Administrative Department would be headed by an administrative
secretary who, apart from controlling the Department, would have special
responsibility for the general administration of the Institute. Details
are at Annex 3.
Staffing
5.04      If the Institute is to achieve its objectives, it is essential that
experienced and competent Nigerian and international staff are recruited. The
Board of Governors would, under the decree of establishment, be empowered to
recruit staff on terms and conditions established for the Institute by the
Board. Initially, under the management contract, the consultants would pro-
vide a director, senior training specialists for Finance, General Management
and Interpersonal Skills, a senior media specialist for the Audio Visual Unit
and an administrative secretary. The qualifications and experience of these
staff would be acceptable to the Bank, and an assurance to this effect was



- 18 -
obtained during negotiations. The Board would recruit locally a commercial
accountant, and training specialists for Finance (2), General Management (3),
and Interpersonal Skills (3). All other local staff would be recruited
directly by the management of the Institute. Detailed job descriptions for
the technical posts are at Annex 3.
5.05      The Nigerian selected to fill the training specialist posts would
require further training (up to 20 man-years total) outside Nigeria, and funds
for this purpose are included under the project.  Detailed job descriptions
for technical staff and overseas training programs are at Annex 3.
Implementation
5.06      "Start-up" activities would be initiated as soon as the management
contract is formalized and a director is in post. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that by September 30, 1979 FMG would provide temporary
office buildings and would rent adequate accommodation for Institute staff,
pending the construction of campus facilities. Initially, the staff would
remain small and would comprise the director, administrative secretary and
accountant, assisted by some clerical workers. The administrative secretary
would play a vital role at this early stage and would assist the Director in
such activities of acquiring land title, temporary housing, staff recruitment,
etc. The senior specialists and the first of the Nigerian technical spe-
cialists would be appointed some six months after initiation of the program.
Prior to loan effectiveness, the foreign costs of consultancy services would
be financed out of the Nigerian prefinancing fund. This fund, which was
established in 1974, and whose operations are governed by a memorandum of
understanding between the Nigerian Government and the Bank, comprises a
circulating capital of US$750,000 invested by Nigeria which is used to pre-
finance costs of recruitment and payment of international staff and consult-
ants incurred prior to the effectiveness of Bank loans. On effectiveness
these costs are reimbursed to the fund out of the loan proceeds.
Evaluation
5.07      The innovative nature of this project, and the training approach
to be adopted, make it important that emphasis be given to the evaluation
of the impact of the training, the attitudes of agricultural employers to
the type of training provided, and the demand for the services offered by
the Institute. Consultancy services, at US$8,000 1/ per man-month, would be
financed under the project (para 3.23), to assist with the establishment of
procedures for systematic evaluation of course-participants by Institute
staff, and the setting of standards against which the effectiveness of the
Institute's work could be assessed, and feedback obtained to improve training
content and method.
5.08      In addition to regular and ongoing evaluation by Institute staff,
selected representatives of client organizations would form evaluation and
1/   US$4,400 fees (22 days at US$200) plus travel and other expenses
US$3,600.



- 19 -
advisory groups to provide feedback after completed traiaiag programs, and
to assist the Director with the design and content of futuire traininig pro-
grams.  In this way, agricultural employers coluld become ,nore directly
interested and involved in the work of the Institute. Membership of such
groups might include representatives of: FT4AWR, State Ministries of Agri-
culture, State Development Corporations, employers in the private sector of
the agricultural industry, and universities and polytechnics in the vicinity
of the campus.
Post Project Development
5.09      During the fourth year of the project, after two years of operation
of the Institute, an evaluation would be made of the success of the training
provided and the demand for the type of training being offered. This evalua-
tion would be undertaken by the consultants in consultation with FMG and the
Bank, and would form the basis for decisions concerning any expansion of the
facilities or developrnent of a second camnpus. The project includes funds for
this evaluation work, and for the training of teaching staff and design work
for the required expansion.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      Economic benefits from improved management capability are intan-
gible, but nevertheless would be significant. In regard to Bank financed
development projects, it is expected that significant improvements in the rate
of implementation and related cost savings will be forthcoming (see para 2.10).
The overall standard of management of many Government departments and agencies
Ls very low, and any improvement in management here could make a significant
impact on the productivity of farmers and the agricultural industry as a whole.
Furthermnore, the provision of new management skills for managers involved
directly in production, e.g., estate nanagers, etc., is likely to have a
mnarked economic and financial impact on the enterprLses concerned.  Improved
management at Local Government level is likely to have a far reaching impact
on a wide range of sectors, including more efficient use of limited financial
resources.
6.02      The benefits derived from imnproved management can be expected to
include higher productivity in terms of performance of staff at all levels,
greater job satisfaction and therefore less, movement anil loss OF staff
throug-iout the agriciltural and rural se(tor, improved staff inorale and
hence increased competitiveness of the sector in attracting new staff, and
a greater ability on the part of imanageinent to anticipate changes, adjuist to
aew situation, and benefit from new opportunities. The project saould benefit
all ongoing and new agricultural and rural developmneat programs in Nigeria,
and should eventually reduce Nigeria's dependence upon scarce and costly
expatriate managerial staff.
6.03      Justification of the approach proposed follows logically from the
trainiag nhilosonhy describel in Annex 2, which requires traiLing io reach
all management levels within any organization to achieve its full impact



- 20 -
upon management practices, training to be highlly problea-orLented and job-
specific, and trainiag personnel to maintain close working relationships with
employers and organizations receiving traininig. Alternatives would fail to
neet these objectives ard, in the longer term, would save very little. For
example:
(a) the attachment of the proposed Institute to an existing
institution such as a university would offer small savings
in commion recreational and catering facilities and in
administration costs, but at the possible expense of the
independence and practicality of the training approach,
the relationships with employers, and possibly the status
of the Institute in the eyes of potential trainees; and
(b) if the same funds were spent in simply buying in-training
expertise froma outside the country, there would be little
chance of sustained exposure of the trainers to Nigerian
problems, training would tend to be elitist and only reach
the higher levels of managenent, anl would not develop a
local capability to provide management training in the
futuire .
Risks
6.04       There are three major risks associated with the project:
-    a technical risk exists in adapting management techaniques
mostly fron nore developed countries; thus the selection of
specialist staff will be critical, and such staff must
be sensitive to the Nigerian milieu to ensure adequate
adaptation of techniques to Nigerian conditions. This
is particularly so for the development of adequate audio
visual aids;
-    it should be recognized that improved management skills
can only be properly utilized under environmental conditions
that support adequate  Management.  Thus there should be
little risk in achieving managemenit improvement in commer-
cially-oriented private or quasi Government sectors.  OOn
the other hand, some Government organizations may, in their
present structuires and operating procedures, present nore
of a problem in the introduction of modern management
methods. Institutional reform is one area of continuing
dialogue between Government and the Bank in the broader context
of sector work. As far as the present project is concerned,
the seminars with senior managers would be designed to
obtain support from the top for new management approaches,
and to allay superiors' fears about the modern methods to
be taught; and



- 21 -
as in most projects, progress during the project period and
in the post development phase will be dependent on Government
commitment to the Institute. Already ongoing projects are
experiencing drastic budget cuts which are bound to affect
project implementation adversely. Such reductions, if
applied to the proposed Institute, would be crippling.
However, at this stage, Government accepts that management
training needs are required for both short and long term
and it has to be assumed that continued support will be
forthcoming, particularly if the early stages of the project
are successful.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(a)  by December 31, 1979, consultants appointed under the
management contract would prepare course curricular
acceptable to the Bank and FMG (para 3.11);
(b)  on the basis of approved annual budgets the Federal
Government would make its budgetary allocations, and
thereafter would make available to the Institute all
necessary funds, quarterly and in advance (para 4.10);
(c)  it would authorize the disbursement of the World Bank
loan directly to the Institute's bank account (para
4.10);
(d)  budgetary, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.11);
(e)  the qualifications and experience of the director, senior
training specialists for Finance, General Management and
Interpersonal Skills, a senior media specialist for the
Audio Visual Unit and the administrative secretary would be
acceptable to the Bank and these staff would be appointed
under the terms of the management contract (para 5.04); and
(f)  by September 30, 1979 FMG would provide the Institute with
temporary office buildings and would rent adequate accommoda-
tion for Institute staff (para 5.06).
7.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  the formalization of the management contract (para 3.24);
(b)  the legal establishment of the Institute (para 5.02); and



- 22 -
(c) that a bank account for the Institute had been opened
and that an initial deposit of N650,000 had been made
(para 4.10).
7.03      On the basis of the above assurances, the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$9.0 million.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
CATEGORIES OF TARGET POPULATION AND IDENTIFIED NEEDS
I. CATEGORIES OF TARGET POPULATION
A.   Management Levels
1.01      Management levels in any large organization generally conform to
a model which can be illustrated as follows:
Top Management
Middle Managers
Second Line Supervisors
First Line Supervisors
For management training to be effective in improving management practice
within an organization it must reach all management levels - the training
of staff from one level in isolation from the rest is likely to have very
limited effect.
1.02      Mainstream courses at the Institute would cater for managers and
supervisors in the agricultural industry who directly manage other people
on a regular basis. Junior staff such as agricultural instructors and
field overseers who do not normally supervise other permanent staff would
not fall within the scope of the Institute's programs.
1.03      There are, of course, wide variations in structure and size within
the total agricultural sector of Nigeria, public, private and parastatal.
In consequence, no system of categorization will fit neatly across the board,



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
e.g., a ranch manager could be either a middle manager or a second line
supervisor depending on the size of the operation and of the ranch itself.
Individual course content and the selection of participants for particular
courses would take account of these variations.
B.   Estimated Numbers of Management Staff
1.04      The most complete and recent data on the numbers of staff employed
at various levels of the agricultural industry are provided by a manpower
planning survey conducted under the auspices of the Agricultural Research
Council of Nigeria with technical assistance from the FAO. The survey,
which had nationwide coverage and included both the public and private
sectors, was conducted in late 1975 - early 1976, and so did not include the
effects of the creation of new states. The next two tables summarize the
results of the survey, using its own job classification.
Employment in Agriculture
States   Federal Government   Private    Total
Professional                    894           710                96     1,700
Senior Technical             1,780           381                129     2,290
Junior Technical             4,383          1,007               159     5,549
Vocational                    5,544           432             1,385     7,361
Employment in Associated Fields
Animal Health      Forestry       Fisheries
Professional                         389             320            125
Senior Technical                     595             270             95
Junior Technical                   1,150             638            414
Vocational                         1,734           2,537            775
1.05      Using information gathered by the appraisal mission, the survey
figures have been adjusted to conform with the four management levels shown
in para 1.01. On this basis, the numbers in the four management levels cur-
rently employed in agriculture alone have been calculated to be approximately:
Top Management                 300
Middle Managers              1,400
Second Line Supervisors    2,300
First Line Supervisors       6,000
1.06      A number of specialists would be included in the above figures whose
jobs are predominantly technical or advisory, and who have very limited super-
visory responsibilities, e.g., laboratory technicians, agricultural economists,
junior research staff. However, the numbers of these staff would only form a
small proportion of all those engaged in program implementation, and a majority
of the staff identified above would be potential candidates for the upgrading
of managerial and supervisory skills.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
1.07      In assessing total demand for managerial training two further
factors must be considered, namely, the future growth of the sector, and
the rate of staff turnover. Given that the rural population continues to
grow, and that t.ie Federal Government now attaches high priority to agricul-
tural development, the coming years will see further growth in the resources
channelled to the agricultural sector, which will increase demand for super-
visory and managerial staff. This demand is further increased, if we take
account of the need to train key personnel in the Local Government Council,
a demand which currently cannot be quantified.
1.08      The turnover and wastage of staff at all levels is generally high
in the agricultural sector of developing countries as growth in other sectors
creates new openings for which capable and experienced staff from the agri-
cultural sector are well qualified. These jobs are frequently better paid
and not as demanding as many field posts in agriculture, and often are more
socially prestigious. With the rapid development taking place in Nigeria,
this situation is more extreme than in most developing countries, and, while
reliable figures on turnover of supervisory staff are not available, managers
of various individual organizations quoted annual turnover rates of up to
15-20%.
1.09      To quantify the demand created by these two factors, a current
wastage rate of 8% has been assumed, falling to 5% in ten years' time, and
a growth rate of 3% has been assumed; this growth rate has been assumed to
remain constant for ten years. These rates have been applied to the figures
in para 1.05 above, and the average numbers of new staff entering supervisory
and management positions within agriculture annually during the next ten
years have been calculated to be:
Top Management, Middle Managers and Second
Line Supervisors (all of whom would attend
residential courses at the Institute)              410
First Line Supervisors                                563
In addition to these numbers, there would be almost as many staff in assoc-
iated fields requiring training (animal health, forestry, fisheries, etc.)
and the large "backlog" of existing staff.
1.10      The total output from middle manager and second line supervisor
courses would be 340 per annum, and a second campus would eventually be
required to meet the total demand for management training within the
agricultural and rural sector.
1.11      Agricultural Management Training.  In Nigeria, agricultural training
is provided by a large number of institutions ranging from state schools of
agriculture, offering one year certificate courses for low-level extension
workers, to universities offering degrees and post-graduate courses, but vir-
tually all of these are technical courses in agricultural and related sciences,
plus extension, marketing and farm management, and none of the institutions
are staffed to provide training in practical management skills.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
1.12      A number of institutions in Nigeria provide training in manage-
ment, but all of them have developed in response to identified management
training needs in commerce and industry. For example, the Nigerian Institute
of Management provides short courses and seminars for practicing managers at
middle and senior levels; the Center for Management Development has a coor-
dinating and advisory role in management training and also offers some courses
for in-service training officers, and several universities offer courses in
business and management studies as part of degree programs. However, none of
these courses are specifically designed for practising managers in the agri-
cultural industry, and none of the institutions have either the appropriate
case studies and other training materials, the teaching staff with the neces-
sary background experience, or the close working relationships with employers
in the agricultural industry which are essential for effective agricultural
management training.
1.13      Management studies programs at some of the large polytechnics are
more oriented towards practical skill development, but these too are, at
present, specifically designed for the needs of commerce and industry. How-
ever, the proposed Institute would maintain close contact with the universi-
ties, agricultural training institutions and polytechnic, and would be able
to call upon their staff to participate in special courses on a "visiting
lecturer" basis.
II.  IDENTIFIED MANAGEMENT TRAINING NEEDS
2.01      The areas of management skills in which training is generally
required were established at appraisal under the broad headings of Planning,
Finance and Budgeting, Goal Setting, Monitoring, Administration (including
Bookkeeping), Decision Making, Influencing and Negotiating. Requirements for
these various skills are generally similar at different levels within any
organization but are much broader in scope the higher the level, and the
complexity of the need increases with the level. For example, the adminis-
trative skills needs of an agricultural assistant focus around the running of
one small office and would include such things as creating and operating a
very basic filing system, report writing and simple record keeping. At the
top level of the organization, administrative skills could involve the
installation of a sophisticated computer-based information system.
2.02      The varying breadth of management skills needed at different levels
is shown graphically on the following chart.  The chart also shows the area
of inter-personal skills and training as being the predominant need at all
levels, and increasing in relative importance the lower the level.  As the
numbers requiring training increase as one moves down the management levels,
it is clear that the Institute would need to develop particular capability
in the area of inter-personal skills training.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Schematic Representation of Management Skills required
at different Managerial and Supervisory Levels
_     ~Influencing_l
Mana gement        a nd ecig Decision    Plnig          InterpersonalGol                            Amn        BokRcr
Skillsment gM Negotiating    aking      Planning       Skills and      Financial        tting/   skills       Kecord
Skills  Negotiating                      ~~~Training     Budgeting    Settn! Sil                epn
Monitoring
Top Management
Middle Managers
Second Line
Supervisors
First Line
Supervisors
j Not an exhaustive list - only the most important categories of management skills shown.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
TRAINING APPROACH, DETAILS OF COURSES, AND COURSE CONTENT
I. TRAINING APPROACH
1.01      The function of the Institute would be to train managers and super-
visors in the agricultural sector to become more effective in the management
skills of their existing posts.  Its purpose would not be to run "promotion
courses", to provide general education or to train in technical agricultural
skills.
Target Population
1.02      In the light of the Institute's objectives, only those managers
and supervisors who meet the following criteria would be eligible to attend
the mainstream courses at the Institute:
-    they should either (a) at the time of attending the
course be directly managing the activities of other
people in the agricultural sector and should have
been doing so for at least one year, or (b) during
their careers should have had at least three years
with direct management responsibility for others and
be currently working in the agricultural sector.
Type of Training
1.03      The training provided by the Institute would concentrate upon the
development of management skills together with whatever knowledge inputs are
necessary for a particular function to be performed effectively. (The pro-
vision of broader technical knowledge and general education is catered for
by other institutions in Nigeria.)
1.04      For practical management, training to be effective, certain funda-
mental principles must be observed, and these determine the training approach
to be followed. The major principles include the following:
(a)  to improve management practices within any organization,
training is necessary at all management levels within
that organization. Training aimed at changing behavioral
practices at any single management level in isolation from
the rest is likely to have a very limited effect;



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
(b) the commitment of managerial staff to management training,
and the acceptance of changes in management practice, must
be a process starting with top management and working down;
(c) organizational practices place constraints upon management
practice, and management trainers must recognize the
prevailing organizational constraints within which the
trainees will have to work, and design training programs
accordingly (but see also 1.05 below);
(d) improving management practice involves changing behavior
patterns and increasing management skills. This requires
highly job-specific training with careful identification
of training needs for specific jobs; and a training
method involving teaching of management principles,
practice of new skills during training, some form of
personal reward for the trainee, and reinforcement by
the trainee's supervisor;
(e) when they return to their job situations after training,
management trainees frequently experience difficulties
in introducing new practices as they encounter problems
which appear different from those they were exposed to
during training. These difficulties can be eased by
discussions with the trainer in the work situation, but
active support is also needed from supervisors at this
stage if the desired changes in management practices
are to be achieved, and this implies a need for the
training of the supervisors in how to reinforce their
subordinates' training; and
(f) motivation is of great importance in management training
- motivation of the trainees themselves as well as the
development of their skills to motivate others.
1.05      In the conduct of its courses, the Institute's training staff will
become aware of organizational constraints which course members see as hinder-
ing their ability to manage effectively. With this data, they will be in an
increasingly good position to advise the organizations nominating course par-
ticipants on ways of reinforcing the training by making changes in their
organizational structure. If implemented, such organization development
consulting could benefit many more people than the relatively few who attend
courses. The Institute's influence on the management of people would thereby
be considerably increased.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
II. TRAINING METHOD
2.01      To provide effective practical management training, bearing in mind
the essential principles outlined above, training at the Institute would in-
clude the major features described below.
Training Programs
2.02      Prior to accepting employees for training from any organization,
the Institute staff would prepare a training program for that organization
in consultation with its top and middle management personnel. The program
would comprise five phases as outlined in the table below, and the timing
of the various activities in the program would be arranged according to the
periods when particular staff could be released most easily. In practice,
two or more organizations would be likely to share a single program as case
study material and teaching examples would suit staff of similar organizations
equally well.
Example of Training Program
Management Group      Training Activities         Follow-up by
Phase I      Top Managers           Appreciation Workshop       Institute Staff
Phase II     Middle Managers        8-10 weeks Institute        Institute Staff
(top managers
involved)
Phase III    Second Line            4 weeks at Institute        Institute Staff
Supervisors           or suitable Center          (middle managers
involved, top
managers informed)
Phase IV     Organization's         4 weeks at Institute        Institute Staff
Trainers              (with return for            (top and middle
further 4-week             managers involved)
courses)
Phase V      First Line             Short, separate             Organization's
Supervisors           modules perhaps 2/3         Trainers (top
days per month in          and middle man-
the work situation         agers informed)



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Training Courses
Top Managers
2.03      It is of prime importance that the top managers should have at least
a prior appreciation of the training the Institute would be giving to their
subordinates. "Main-stream" training for top managers would have this objec-
tive which would be achieved by seminars and workshops of up to one week in
length. Meeting of specific training needs of the top managers themselves
would be provided by "Specialist Courses" (para 2.10).
Middle Managers
2.04      Middle managers would attend an eight to ten week residential course
at the Institute. This would cover the identified needs of the particular
group in the areas of interpersonal skills and training, administrative skills,
planning skills, finance and budgeting, decision making, goal setting, in-
fluencing and negotiating. A "sandwich" approach (where a trainee spends a
period at the Institute, returns to a work situation to work on a supervised
project either in his parent organization or in some other, and then returns
to the Institute for a further training period), is not considered practicable
in the Nigerian context because of the size of the country and its communica-
tions constraints, and the limited number of experienced managers available
to provide the necessary supervision of trainees in a work situation.
2.05      At the same time, practical application of the skills by the
trainees at intervals during the course is of great importance. Each course
for middle managers would therefore embody two supervised projects. Each
project might last a week. Typically, a group of four to six trainers would
be given a specific brief by the trainer responsible who would plan their
strategy. They would then visit a selected organization which might be an
agricultural project, an estate or other large organization. Care would be
taken to choose well-managed organizations for this purpose. Trainees would
then obtain the information and evidence they required and write up a report
on their findings which they would discuss with the organization's management
under the supervision of their instructor. In this way, trainees would be
exposed to a range of actual management situations and decision making.
2.06      At the end of every course, each participant would work out, with
his tutor, a set of objectives for himself which he would attempt to attain
when he returned to his work situation. These objectives would provide a
basis for follow-up work by the trainers which would form a component of
every course.
Second Line Supervisors
2.07      The course for second line supervisors would be of four weeks'
duration and would be held either at the Institute or, if necessary, at some
suitable center nearer to the area from which the supervisors come. This
course would concentrate on the same skill areas as those identified in the



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
middle managers' course, but at a lower level of complexity, and would be
more closely job-specific. Trainees would also set personal objectives at
the end of their courses.
First Line Supervisors - Training-the-Trainer Courses
2.08      Because of the large numbers involved, it would not be feasible for
the Institute staff to train directly at this level.  With first line super-
visors more effect would be achieved by a series of very short periods of
training (of two or three days' duration), than by courses covering longer
periods. The Institute would design training programs for this group and
train trainers, selected by the organization concerned, who would run these
programs for the supervisors in their work situations. As a prerequisite for
training as trainers, those selected would first have completed either the
middle managers' or the second line supervisors' course - whichever was appro-
priate to their position - and would also have had to satisfy the Institute
staff during that period that they had the potential to become effective
trainers.
2.09      The Train-the-Trainer course would take place at the Institute and
would last four weeks. This period would be devoted to training in trainer
skills necessary to run the specific program modules, together with the know-
ledge of content which the trainers would require to put the modules across
effectively. While a training course of this nature would not produce all-
round skilled trainers, it could, by using a module-specific approach,
achieve a high level of skill in administering those particular modules.
As the Institute developed, and further programs were produced, the trainers
would be recalled for further training which would progressively upgrade
their all-round trainer skills. The trainers could operate both as part of
the follow-up of courses held at the Institute, and by holding courses for
the large numbers of those unable to attend residential sessions at the
Institute.
Specialist Courses
2.10      In addition to the "mainstream" courses described, the Institute
would run specialized courses which might range in length from three days to
three weeks for:
(a)  top managers in specific areas of need such as negotiating
or performance appraisal;
(b)  middle managers and second line supervisors with particular
needs where the numbers with that need were too low to
justify the inclusion of the subject in the appropriate
mainstream course, e.g. critical path analysis, discounted
cash flow techniques, etc.; and
(c) managers from any level to meet a "one off" situation.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Interpersonal Skills
2.11      Much emphasis at the Institute would be given to training in inter-
personal skills (see Annex 1). Little training technology has been available
in the past to enable trainers to use a skill development approach to the
managing of people; the usual method has been to teach people theories of
human behavior and to assume that this knowledge will change their behavior.
There is little evidence to show that this has worked. Recent developments
in management skills training have taken another path. This suggests that if
one can get people to change their behavior, and if they discover that this
change brings them reward, one can change behavior without changing attitudes
first. Supervisory training programs based on the behavior modelling approach
have now been produced which are "how to do it" programs rather than "why to
do it". They are designed around the demonstration followed by practice and
feedback loops, and the skills are broken down into simple behavioral objec-
tives (known as critical steps) which the trainees practice in role play
situations.
2.12      The probability of transferring the skills back to the job is
increased by a positive reinforcement approach by the trainer as well as
management reinforcement components.
2.13      Results achieved in the United States and Europe, and in a number
of developing countries, by this behavior modelling-based supervisory training
have proved its superiority over other approaches to practical skills training
in the man-management field. The Institute would therefore, use this type of
approach for training at the middle management level downwards, and would also
run management reinforcement sessions for top managers. This type of training
requires a specific approach:
(a) it is modular with each module taking half a day (examples
of modules would be orienting a new employee, improving
performance, handling employee complaints, etc.);
(b) it is undesirable to run modules too close together (three
half days a week would be the effective maximum);
(c) at least 10 modules should be run with any one group to
achieve sufficient facility with the skills;
(d) the training groups must not exceed six trainees; and
(e) an effective trainer in the program must have had practical
management experience at least one level above that of the
trainees, must be experienced and effective in using a group
in a fully participative manner, and must be able to estab-
lish and maintain a positive "rewarding" climate which,
at the same time, encourages constructive criticism and
skill development. Training for such trainers could only



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
be done by using consultants or by sending one or two
already experienced trainers to the United States for
what is termed "master trainer training", after which
they could then train other trainers in Nigeria. A
system of certification exists to ensure that the
standard of trainers trained in this sort of program
is maintained.
Transfer of Learning, Reinforcement and Follow-up
2.14      Typically, training institutions are criticized (with justification)
for treating training as though it were a surgical operation which finishes
at the end of a course with the "patient" cured. Training involves change
and people do not change without skill development, reward and reinforcement.
2.15      In order to assist the trainees as much as possible in transferring
their skills back to the field, the Institute would phase training by manage-
ment level so that superiors would be trained before subordinates (see para
1.04), and it would build follow-up into the design of the training program.
This follow-up would be achieved by staff from the Institute visiting employer
organizations and discussing the achievement of previously agreed objectives
with trainees, and by holding short seminars and workshops at central loca-
tions for trainees who had attended the same course. At these reunions they
could share experiences, compare achievements, air problems and receive fur-
ther guidance from trainers. It is important that the trainers' supervisors
be involved in the follow-up phase.
Teaching Method and Size of Teaching Group
2.16      The teaching methods involved would be small group and participa-
tive, allowing for individual discovery and experience, and much practice
and feedback. A high proportion of the course work would be in groups from
eight down to pairs. Media used to support the training would include case
studies, skill practices, "in-baskets", etc., which would be designed by
Institute staff after detailed needs analysis in the field.
Job Specific Training
2.17      The less breadth of experience a man has, the more difficult it is
for him to relate to different situations and to generalize from one situation
to another.
2.18      For this reason, it is necessary that case studies and other prac-
tical exercises be drawn from the job situations of the trainees, and the
lower their level in the structure the more crucial this is. As the objective
of the training is to improve effectiveness in the existing job, the whole
curriculum needs to be job-specific and aimed at job-performance. An example
of this would be that if a group needed to be trained to handle an imprest
account, the knowledge inputs and practical exercises would be restricted to



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
what is required to perform the tasks involved to a satisfactory standard.
The approach would not be via general accounting principles, double entry
bookkeeping, etc.
2.19      One implication of the job-specific training approach , and the
detailed needs analysis which it requires, is that teaching would need a
considerable amount of preparation tine before each mainstream course is run.
The interspersion of mainstream courses with seminars and special courses
(often involving only a few of the teaching staff), would give time for the
necessary preparation work.
Reward
2.20      Reward in some form is necessary to provide incentive for behavior
change. During training, while he is a member of a training group, the incen-
tives for each participant to adopt new behavior patterns would be a belief
that the new methods would help him in his work, and praise for his improved
performance from his trainer and other members of his group. Upon his return
to his work environment his reward would take the form of personal satisfac-
tion from his success in doing things better than he did before, and recog-
nition and approval from his superior. Direct financial reward would not be
expected upon completion of the course, though this might follow later as a
result of better job performance.
III. COURSE CONTENT
3.01      The most immediate needs at the various levels have been identified
as:
Interpersonal Skills
Administrative Skills
Planning Skills
Finance and Budgeting
Decision Making
Goal Setting and Performance Monitoring
Influencing and Negotiating
These are, however, "across the board" needs and their depth and complexity
vary considerably within the same management level. For example, the account-
ing skills required by a credit manager and a ranch manager may differ widely.
It would be the task of the Institute staff to vary the course content and to
control selection to each course so that these variations in need are met.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Modular Program Construction
3.02      The basis of all the mainstream courses would consist of a series of
separate modules in the different skill areas at varying levels and to meet
varying needs. When the composition of any course had been established and
their particular needs analyzed, the course program would then be built up by
choosing the appropriate modules on a "building bricks" principle. The first
line supervisors' modules would be so designed that the trainers trained at
the Institute would have maximum flexibility to run them in the way that best
suited their individual situations.
Module Content
3.03      Curricula for individual modules would be drawn up after detailed
identification of training needs for different categories of staff in a
number of organizations. This would be a continuing process in which senior
teaching staff would be involved as the Institute grows and develops, but
the initial preparation of curricula, and decisions on the most appropriate
teaching support materials needed, would be critical to the early success of
the Institute. To ensure that this work receives the necessary priority
during the establishment phase of the Institute, funds would be included under
the management contract for recognized specialists in the field of management
training needs identification to undertake initial needs identification and
curriculum development work (see Annex 6). Institute staff and evaluation
and advisory groups (see main text, para 5.07) would be involved in a constant
process of evaluation of the training provided at the Institute. The feedback
from this evaluation would enable the content of individual modules, as well
as course design, to be frequently reviewed and improved.
IV.  SELECTION OF TRAINEES
4.01      Trainees for a specific program would be selected according to the
following criteria:
(a) by organization (the need for reinforcement dictates the
necessity to work through an organization from the top
level to first line supervisors within as short a time
as possible);
(b) by level - all trainees on a program should be at a
similar level of responsibility;
(c) by similar job - courses will be job-orientated and
tailored to meet job needs; and
(d) by geographical areas - follow-up in a country the size
of Nigeria would not be cost and time effective unless
groups are from the same area so that the follow-up
trainer can work with several trainees from one base.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
4.02      The Board of the Institute, on the advice of the consultants, would
provide more specific guidelines for selection of trainees. Day-to-day
responsibility for selection of trainees would be assumed by the Director, who
would provide a report to the Board every six months on the operation of the
guidelines and the composition of the student intake.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
STAFF FOR THE INSTITUTE
I. THE DIRECTOR
1.01      The director would have primary responsibility for:  overseeing the
design and construction of the Institute buildings; the recruitment of staff;
the establishment of working relationships with employer organizations; the
identification of training needs; the development of training programs; the
relationships of the Institute with central Government and other management
training organizaions; selection of trainees; the administration of the
Institute; the development of the consultancy role of the staff, and the
health and reputation of the Institute. It is crucial to the success of the
Institute that a man of suitable experience and ability is appointed to this
position, and recruitment would be conducted on an international basis.
1.02      Necessary qualifications and experience would be:  graduate (or
equivalent) in either agriculture, economics, accountancy, business management
or social sciences, with first hand experience of practical management. It is
essential that he should have a successful record in management training, and
should have worked at a senior level in the development and operation of some
form of professional training. Experience of working in Africa would be
desirable, and fluency in English essential.
1.03      The extent to which the director would be involved in teaching would
depend largely upon the individual, but his many other duties would prevent
him from having more than a part-time teaching role. However, he would in the
first instance be the "Head" of the Teaching Department.
1.04      The position of director would initially be filled by an expatriate,
but the post would be Nigerianized at an appropriate time - probably by promo-
tion from among the senior training specialists. Funds are included in the
project to finance an expatriate director for a five-year period.
II. TEACHING STAFF
2.01      The teaching staff would comprise the following:
Senior Training
Department                    Specialist          Training Specialist
Finance                           1                         2
Interpersonal Skills              1                         3
General Management                1                         3
Audio Visual Unit                 1                         1



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Senior Training Specialists
2.02      Well before the Institute is ready to accommodate students, the
director, the three senior training specialists and the senior media training
Specialist would need to establish contact with agricultural employers, assess
specific training needs, design modules which would form the basis of course
construction, and prepare case studies and other course materials. These
activities would be vital to the early success of the Institute, and would
require people of wide experience in the field of management training who
would need to take up their appointments at the Institute at least six months
before the first mainstream course is due to commence. The necessary quali-
fications for the four posts are set out in Attachment 1.
Staff Recruitment
2.03      Management training for agriculture is a relatively recent innova-
tion, and it is anticipated that recruitment of suitably qualified senior
staff would be far from easy. However, it is likely that an organization
with wide contacts and international reputation, which is already involved
in the field of management training, would provide the best means of recruit-
ing and retaining the type of person needed. Funds would, therefore, be
included in the project to meet the cost of a management contract which would
provide for the recruitment of the director, three senior training specailists,
and the media training specialist. Details of a draft management contract are
shown in Annex 6.
Training Specialists
2.04      As no practical management training in agriculture and rural devel-
opment is currently being undertaken in Nigeria, it is unlikely that suitably
experienced Nigerians would be available immediately to fill the eight train-
ing specialist positions. Funds are, therefore, provided in the project to
enable Nigerians to be trained for these posts; recruitment and training would
be initiated in Year 0 of the project so that these staff could complete their
training prior to the commencement of the mainstream courses. (See Implemen-
tation Chart at the end of this Annex.)
2.05      Not all staff would require agricultural qualifications; in the
areas of interpersonal skills and general management, specialists without such
qualifications could clearly be used. However, it is important that teaching
staff have first hand experience of practical management situations, and the
more closely related this experience is to an agricultural environment, the
more relevant and dynamic the teaching is likely to be. It is anticipated
that sufficient candidates with suitable background experience would be avail-
able for training to fill the training specialist positions.
2.06      Expatriates would be required initially to fill the senior training
specialist positions, but would be replaced by Nigerians from the training
specialist ranks as soon as the Nigerians had gained sufficient experience.
Fellowships are included in the project for the training of additional staff
to fill the vacancies created at the time of the expatriates' departure.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Training of Teaching Staff
2.07      Details of the qualifications required, and the proposed training
programs for the training specialists are shown in Attachment 1. The project
would also provide fellowships for staff from the Interpersonal Skills Depart-
ment to attend a "master trainer training" program in the United States
(Annex 2, para 2.13).
2.08      Following their training outside Nigeria, the training specialists
would need to develop their own teaching skills further, and they would re-
ceive appropriate on-the-job guidance and supervision from the senior training
specialists. As much of the course work would be by small group instruction,
staff in each of the three teaching departments would need to be able to
handle the group work, and the in-field training, in all subject areas of
their respective departments, and it would take them time to develop the
necessary breadth of knowledge and skills to do this.
2.09      Costs of teaching staff and training fellowships are set out in
Annex 5, Table 5.
III. AUDIO VISUAL UNIT
3.01      Audio visual support is essential to modern management teaching
methods. Very little relevant material currently exists in Nigeria, and
an audio visual unit would be established to produce case studies and other
training materials needed to support the teaching programs. Trainers trained
at the Institute to train first line supervisors in their own organizations
would require teaching aids to help them in their training roles, and the
unit would produce audio visual materials for them which would not involve
sophisticated technology or any technical knowledge in their use.
Staff
3.02      The unit would be headed by a senior media specialist who would be
responsible to the director and work closely with the teaching staff in the
preparation of audio visual material required for specific training modules.
The senior media specialist would also train trainers in the use of audio
visual materials and other training skills.
3.03      A counterpart, with broad experience in a wide range of audio visual
equipment, would undergo a nine-month training attachment to a media center
overseas which has an emphasis on the production of case study material.
Upon his return he would fill the position of media specialist where he would
work with the senior media training specialist during the period of the estab-
lishment of the Institute when a great deal of visual aid and other teaching
support material would be produced. He would take over from the senior media
specialist upon the completion of the latter's contract. Two technicians
would be included on the staff of the unit.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
IV. CONSULTANCY
4.01      In the development of courses and support materials, the Institute
would benefit from expert advice in specific fields and, during its early
years, from outside specialist assistance to run special courses for senior
managers. This assistance would be obtained from within Nigeria as well as
from abroad, and nine man-months (out of the contracted 25) of consultancy
services would be financed under the project for these purposes.
V. ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
5.01      The responsibilities of the director (para 1.01) would be heavy,
and he would have personally to establish relationships with employers and
initiate the various activities in the development of the Institute. At the
same time, an administrative secretary, who would be a skilled administrator
and public relations officer, would be able to relieve him of much of the
routine work. In particular, he could deal with such items as preparation
of tender documents, obtaining temporary housing for senior staff, purchasing
furniture, equipment and office supplies, recruiting clerks and typists, etc.;
and, once the Institute is established, he would handle the time consuming
duties of arranging dates and times of courses with employers; setting up
follow-up seminars; handling the student record aspects of the Institute
administration; dealing with routine public relations activities; and pre-
paring timely reports on the Institute's activities for State and Federal
officials. The administrative secretary would be recruited during the
start-up year of the project.
5.02      A fully qualified commercial accountant would be responsible to the
administrative secretary and through him to the director for all the records
and accounts for the campus, for the payment of wages, collection of fees and
the preparation of annual estimates.
5.03      A catering supervisor would be responsible to the administrative
secretary for all catering and domestic arrangements and for the purchase,
storage, allocation and record keeping for all domestic supplies.
5.04      A maintenance foreman would be in charge of a small labor force
which would redecorate and maintain all buildings and also keep the grounds
in order. He would also supervise the work of a mechanic who would perform
routine maintenance of campus vehicles. In addition, the maintenance foreman
would be responsible for campus security.
5.05      Full details of all administrative staff, their salaries and wages,
and when they would be appointed, are set out in Annex 5, Table 6.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
A. SENIOR TRAINING SPECIALISTS - QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
1.        Most important in the selection of staff to fill the four senior
positions listed below would be the personal qualities called for in these
posts - the appointees must be people of maturity and sensitivity, with
demonstrated ability to understand and work within cultures other than
their own.
Senior Training Specialist (Finance)
2.        A graduate holding current membership in a recognized professional
accounting body. A qualification in agricultural economics would be an
advantage.
3.        Experience should include at least three years of practical finan-
cial management, preferably in the agricultural sector, and at least three
years of teaching practical management skills, including work involving the
detailed identification of management training needs and course development.
Senior Training Specialists (General Management)
4.        A graduate with a formal qualification in management studies.  A
qualification in agriculture would be an advantage.
5.        Experience should include at least three years in practical business
management in agriculture or agro-industry, and three years of teaching prac-
tical management skills, including work involving the detailed identification
of management training needs and course development. Professional experience
in a developing country in Africa would be highly desirable.
Senior Training Specialist (Interpersonal Skills)
6.        A graduate with a formal qualification in management studies.  A
qualification in behavior modelling training techniques would be an advantage.
7.        Experience should include at least three years in management, with
heavy emphasis on personal management, labor relations, etc., and at least
three years in practical management training, including work involving detailed
identification of needs for. interpersonal skill training and course development.
Candidates for this post should be fully conversant with recent developments
in the fields of training in interpersonal relations and behavior modelling
techniques; the appointee might be required to attend a course in behavior
modelling teaching skills, if necessary. Experience of working in Africa
would be highly desirable.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Senior Media Specialist
8.        Candidates should have had senior responsibility for the operation
of an audio visual aid production unit. A teaching qualification and a formal
qualification in the field of educational audio visual production would be
desirable.
9.        Experience should include a minimum of five years working within
the audio visual media field and some involvement in the preparation of mate-
rials for adult education using film, video tape and printing equipment. Some
involvement with management training would be a clear advantage, as would ex-
perience of working in Africa. Experience of teaching the use of simple audio
visual equipment and materials would be an advantage.
B. TRAINING SPECIALISTS - QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING
10.       Listed below are the qualifications required for the eight training
specialist positions and staff for the Audio Visual Unit at the first campus,
and the proposed training which each candidate should receive prior to taking
up duties at the Institute. It would be possible to modify the training of
staff for the second campus in light of experience on the first. Nine months
should be allowed to cover advertising, interviewing, selection and processing
of the successful candidates for all training specialist posts. The process
should begin in mid Project Year 1. It is desirable that all training spe-
cialists have first hand experience of management.
Specialist in Finance (one post)
11.       Qualifications and Experience.  A graduate with practical experience
in accounting and/or company finance and holding current membership in a recog-
nized professional accounting body.
12.       Training.  The appointee would spend the first three months at the
Institute working closely with the senior training specialist (finance) and
would then enroll in a ten-week Management Teacher Development Course similar
to that offered by the Central London Polytechnic Management School.
13.       The appointee would be available for teaching duties at the begin-
ning of the fourth quarter of Project Year 2.
14.       After a suitable interval, he would visit the Mananga Agricultural
Management Center in Swaziland (MAMC) to undertake some teaching assignments.
This visit, covering a period of four to six weeks, is seen as an important
broadening experience for the specialist.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Specialist in Agricultural Economics/Farm Management (one post)
15.       Qualifications and Experience.  A graduate in agriculture/agricul-
tural economics preferably with a post-graduate qualification and a wide-
ranging knowledge of the Nigerian agricultural sector.
16.       Training.  The successful candidate would spend the first three
months at the Institute working closely with the senior training specialist
(finance) and would then enroll in a ten-week Management Teacher Development
Course similar to that offered by the Central London Polytechnic Management
School.
17.       The appointee would be available to commence teaching duties at
the beginning of the fourth quarter of Project Year 2.
18.       After a suitable interval, the specialist in agricultural economics/
farm management would visit MAMC to observe courses and to undertake teaching
assignments. This visit would cover a period of four to six weeks.
Training Specialists in Interpersonal Skills (three posts)
19.       Qualifications and Experience.  Candidates for these positions would
be graduates with practical managerial or supervisory experience who should
have held training or personnel positions in agricultural or industrial
concerns.
20.       Training.  To meet the specialized demands of the Institute's
courses, successful candidates would be required to undertake a concentrated
training program before commencing their teaching duties, which would include:
(a)  specialized instruction in the use of human relations training
materials as applied to management practices. In this spe-
cialized field there are limited choices for the training.
Two possible programs are the MA in Management Studies at the
University of Leeds and the Diploma in Management Studies
(Human Resources) at the Sheffield Polytechnic. Either
program would give a sound basis for moving on to skill
development in the human relations field. Both run for
a period of one academic year;
(b)  to increase skills in human relations, each appointee would
be enrolled in the Management Teacher Development Course
at the Central London Polytechnic Management School. The
duration of this course is ten weeks; and
(c)  to complete training in behavior modelling techniques,
as applied to supervisory and management training, each
appointee would take a course either in Nigeria, given by
behavior modelling trainer consultants, or in the USA at
a recognized institution.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
21.       The three fully-trained specialists would be available for teaching
duties by the middle of Project Year 2, and one would move to senior training
specialist position at the end of the fourth year of project operation.
Specialist in General Management (three posts)
22.       Qualifications and Experience.  Candidates for these positions would
be practicing graduates in agriculture, management studies or related fields
with four to five years work experience, preferably including experience in
a supervisory or management position in the agricultural industry.
23.       Training.  The three specialists would complete a post-graduate
diploma in management studies, followed by the ten-week Management Teacher
Development Course at the Central London Polytechnic. It is suggested that
the diploma in management studies (agriculture) offered by the East Anglian
Regional Management Center, based at Writtle, Essex, England, would be a most
suitable course. This Center has a high reputation for a sensible and prag-
matic approach to teaching aimed at the management of a variety of agricul-
tural organizations.
24.       These specialists would be ready for teaching duties by the fourth
quarter of Project Year 2.
25.       One of the three specialists would move to the senior training
specialist post at the end of the fourth year of project operation.
Media Specialist (one post)
26.       Qualifications and Experience.  Should have experience with a range
of audio-visual equipment and should be capable (after training) of producing
teaching materials and instructing staff in the use of appropriate aids.
27.       Training.  The media specialist would be recruited at the beginning
of the project and would undergo a nine-month training session at an overseas
media center with emphasis on the production of case study material.
28.       The media specialist would be ready to start work by the middle of
Project Year 2.
Audio Visual Technician (one post)
29.       Qualifications and Experience.  Demonstrated versatility in the
repair and maintenance of a wide range of audio visual equipment. Additional
training, if required, to be provided by suppliers of specialist equipment.
30.       The technician would take up duties during the second quarter of
Project Year 2.



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Institute Organization
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Chairman
[vauation and
-- - - - - - -                Advisory Groups
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
Teaching Department                                           Administrative Department
Finance~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fiac
H    Finance   l                                 H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Finance l
q  General Managernent |                                     qGeneral Administration
_ Interpersonal Sk'ills                                          Catering & Hostels
Maintenance &
_    Audio Visual Unit                                      _    Transport
World Bank - 18086



N I GE R I A
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEM1ENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Itsplernentation Program
Critical 7ath Schedule
Year 1               Year 2               Year 3                 Year 4                Year 5
Establish management contract
Director
Curricula development
Design      T                 Construction
Buildlngs                                    -                                          -
T Order/Supply
Equuipment
Administrative Secretary
Admin. Staff (start-up)           _              -  -
(full operation)                                                                                                                                                                   4
Domestic Staff
Senior Training Specialists (4)             - .                   .
Temporary Housing                                     -
Training Specialists (8)                                   .. . . . .......... ......5........                                          .............
Courses: Seminars; (Senior Managersu
Middle Management
Second Line Supet-vrs_
Trainer lZraining
Evaluation of -r titute
April '79             April '80            April 81              April 82              April '83
-         -   t ~ Recruitment          1/ Management Contract to be established by the start of Year 1
*----; ---- Training                   Z, Length of trainirig for different individuals would vary; all would complete training during period shown.
T
Tendering                   Temporary housing: Director and Administrative Secretary
SI Senior Training Specialists (4)
51 Additional staff required to replace expatriates.                                                           World Bank- 18087



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
SITE, BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT
I. LOCATION
1.01      The large numbers of potential trainees in the agricultural industry
(Annex 1), together with the size of Nigeria and the nature of the training
needed, makes it more difficult for a single center to meet the needs of the
whole country adequately. In order to serve the major geographic and ecolo-
gical areas of the country, the Institute may eventually have more than one
campus. The proposed project would fully establish the first campus, and
finance a staff training and design work for a second campus, if required.
1.02      The proposed site at Ilorin would meet the following criteria, which
were specified as essential for the Institute:
-    good road communication and air communications with all
parts of Nigeria;
-    ready access to higher education and research institutions,
to facilitate participation by their staff in specialized
courses and seminars;
-    ready access to a variety of well-managed agricultural
organizations and projects where students can observe
a range of management situations and practices;
-    proximity to a large town where services are available
to maintain a residential training institute, e.g. food
and domestic supplies, office and machinery services,
post office, bank, medical services, educational facili-
ties for staff children, employment opportunities for
professionally qualified wives, and a variety of social
amenities;
-    availability of electricity, water and telephone services;
and
-    availability locally of semi-skilled and unskilled domestic
and other labor.
Special attention will have to be given at an early stage to locating suitable
temporary housing and office accommodation for Institute staff during the
construction phase.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
1.03      Similar criteria would be used when selecting a site for any future
second campus since careful siting would increase the efficiency of operation,
and would have an important effect upon the morale of staff and their families
which, in turn, would influence the continuity of teaching staff, and the
success of the Institute.
II. INSTITUTE BUILDINGS
2.01      The Institute would be designed so that the three mainstream courses
could be run concurrently. Normal enrollment for these courses would be:
middle managers 30, second line supervisors 18, trainers 14 - total 62. During
intervals between these courses, special courses and seminars would be run
for senior management, or to meet special needs for lower level staff. Total
hostel space would accommodate 64; any spare capacity could be used to accom-
modate visiting lecturers or other official visitors.
2.02      There would be a wide range of age, seniority and background among
trainees attending different courses being held concurrently. The nature of
the training would be novel to many potential trainees, and some of the most
senior of them might have reservations about attending such courses, so it
is important that the facilities of the Institute be able to accommodate even
the most senior management staff suitably. The overall appearance of the
buildings and their siting and layout could help to create the right attitudes
to training, but this need not involve elaborate architecture. The prestige
of the Institute would develop from its performance and the quality of its
staff, and not from the sophistication of its buildings. Institute buildings
would, therefore, be functional, bearing in mind the special nature of the
teaching and the trainees, and attractively laid out, but not elaborate.
Teaching Facilities
2.03      Participants in every course would need to be together for general
lectures, but the practice and feedback required in management skills training
would necessitate a small group approach for much of the course work, with
trainees working in groups varying from eight down to two.
2.04      Offices would be provided adjacent to the teaching facilities for
the three senior training specialists and eight training specialists, and
would be large enough to accommodate small tutoral groups of three or four
trainees.
2.05      The library would have shelving for 10,000 volumes and seating for
20 readers. Office and storage space would be included.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Boarding and Communal
2.06      Participants would be accommodated in single rooms designed in units
of four, each unit having its own shower and toilet and a common verandah area.
This "unit" approach would increase the flexibility of use of the facilities
for staff on different courses and from different backgrounds, and reduce the
"institutional" nature of the hostels.
2.07      The dining room would have cafeteria facilities and sufficient
capacity for a number of guests - the kitchen and food preparation areas
would be designed accordingly.
2.08      The common room would provide a venue for informal contract and
mixing between course participants who, frequently, would represent different,
yet related, organizations within the agricultural sector. This social con-
tact would be an important by-product of the training courses.
Administration
2.09      Campus buildings would include a small administrative unit, and the
layout of the campus buildings should be planned to avoid teaching being dis-
turbed by "traffic" associated with campus administration. Details of campus
buildings and their estimated costs are set out in Annex 5. If the Institute
proved successful, it is likely that it would be required to expand its
activities and increase its student capacity. The design of buildings and
the layout of the campus would allow for such expansion.
Staff Housing
2.10      Housing would be provided on the campus for all teaching staff,
senior administrative staff and those key junior personnel who need to be
available at short notice, or who work unusual hours. Houses would be pro-
vided for the following:
Post                                    No. Houses
Director                                           1
Senior Training Specialist                         3
Senior Media Specialist                            1
Training Specialist                                8
Media Specialist                                   1
Media Technician                                   2
Administrative Secretary                           1
Financial Secretary                                1
Works Superintendent                               1
Domestic Supervisor                                1
Senior Driver                                      1
Security Officer                                   1
Cooks, Drivers, etc.                              12



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
2.11      The work of contracting employers, planning of courses, preparation
of case studies and other course materials would have to start during Year 1
so that courses could commence immediately the buildings for the first campus
are completed. Temporary office accommodation and temporary housing for
senior staff would, therefore, have to be rented prior to the completion of
building construction. For this purpose, N95,000 are included in the project
(Annex 5, Tables 7 and 8). Because of high rental costs, the construction
would place emphasis upon the early completion of the staff housing and
administration buildings.
III. EQUIPMENT
Furniture
3.01      Furniture would be provided for all Institute buildings and for
senior staff houses. Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be pre-
pared prior to negotiations after sketch plans of the buildings for the
first campus have been produced. Costs for equipment, shown in Annex 5,
have been based upon data provided in the preparation document and checked
during appraisal.
Teaching Equipment
3.02      Course work would make considerable use of case studies and other
visual aid materials. Black and white video equipment (CCTV) would be used
- color equipment would not be justified in view of its expense, the levels
of skill needed for its use, and probable difficulties of repair and mainte-
nance, in relation to the relatively limited use which would be made of it.
Local suppliers of the video equipment would be required, through a supplier
contract, to give instruction to the Audio Visual Unit staff on the operation
and simple maintenance of the equipment.
3.03      Although much case study material would be produced by the Insti-
tute, funds are included in the project for the purchase of twenty 16 mm
teaching films. In addition, a basic interaction management package would
be purchased for interpersonal skill training. This would include prepared
teaching materials, instructors' workbooks, manuals and critical step cards.
The Audio Visual Unit would be able to reproduce these and amend them as
necessary and produce the expendable materials needed for the various modules
required in different courses. Details of teaching equipment and equipment
for the Audio Visual Unit are shown in Attachment 1.
Air Conditioning
3.04      Allowance would be made in the project costings for air conditioning
for teaching rooms, the audio visual workshop, senior staff offices and houses,
and the common room. Ceiling fans would be provided in hostel rooms.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Vehicles
3.05      There would be occasions when it would be necessary to take whole
classes of 30, together with some staff, to visit agricultural organizations
and projects. However, the greatest calls on transport would be for the
day-to-day running of the campus, involving purchase of foodstuffs and sup-
plies, collecting course participants from bus/railway station or airport,
meeting visitors, etc.; for teaching staff to undertake follow-up work in
the field, and for the Audio Visual Unit and teaching staff to develop case
study materials and other teaching aids.
3.06      In these circumstances, a large bus would seldom be fully utilized,
and a variety of smaller vehicles could be used more efficiently and still
be able to meet the occasional need for transporting a group of 30 or more.
The following vehicles would be required:
4 cars (1 for director; 3 primarily for use by the senior
training specialists and administrative secretary);
1 pick-up 15-20 cwt;
1 20-seater bus;
1 mini-bus 10/12 seater; and
1 fitted vehicle for audio visual aid equipment.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
TEACHING EQUIPMENT
3   overhead projectors (Bell & Howell or 3M/or equivalent)
4   screens - 2 suitable for overhead projection
2 suitable for cine projection
2-16 mm cine projectors (Bell & Howell or equivalent)
20 films
2   slide projectors (Kodak Carousel or equivalent)
1   set rear projection accessories (screen, mirror, etc.)
30 pocket calculators - suitable for students
10 work study stopwatches
Video equipment (CCTV) - type depending on local supply and
back-up facilities
2   cameras
1   cassette console
2   screen monitors - 2311
10 blank video tapes
1   Interaction Management Package (plus operating allowance
at US$50 per person put through the whole program)



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Project Cost Tables: Index
Table
1     Summary of Project Costs
2     Site Preparation and Services
3     Project Buildings
4     Vehicles, Furniture and Equipment
5     Academic Salaries, Training and Consultants
6     Administrative Salaries and Wages
7     Recurrent Costs
8     Cash Flow
9     Financing Plan
10     Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMEN    \INING INSTITUTE
Summary of Project Cost (N '000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5       Total       %         Amount    Local Cost
Site preparation and services           1,025.5        -           -           -           -        1,025.5      40         410.2        615.3
Buildings                                 576.8    2,307.4         -           -           -        2,884.2      40       1,153.7      1,730.5
Vehicles, furniture and equipment         107.1       369.2        49.7        13.4         6.7       546.1      54.-       292.8        253.3
Academic salaries                         208.4       361.9       361.9       388.3       163.9    1,484.4       73       1,089.0        395.4
Training                                   50.0       125.0       160.0       210.0       180.0       725.0      64         462.0        263.0
Consultants                                62.4        31.2         5.2        26.0         5.2       130.0    100          130.0         -
Administrative salaries and wages          60.4        86.2       153.9       153.9       153.9       608.3      51         308.3        300.0
Recurrent costs                           125.4       136.7       183.7       198.9       198.9       843.6      27         224.7        618.9
Base Cost 1/                            2,216.0    3,417.6        914.4       990.5       708.6    8,247.1       49       4,070.7      4,176.4
Contingencies: physical 2/                110.8       170.9        45.7        49.5        35.4       412.3      49         202.0        210.3
price 3/                  402.0    1,280.3        345.7       532.1       595.3    3,155.4       49      1,546.2       1,609.2 -
Total Project Cost                      2,728.8    4,868.8    1,305.8    1,572.1    1,339.3   11,814.8           49       5,818.9      5,995.9
1/ End-1978 prices.
2/ At 5% of base costs.
3/ Calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies, at 20% compounded annually for local construction and operating costs,
13% annually for local salaries; at 6% compounded annually for vehicles and equipment, and 7% for academic salaries, training
and consultants.
May 7, 1979
i- t'



- 56 -
ANNEX S
Table 2
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Site Preparation and Services
Initial Costs                                                                (M)
Land acquisition                                                            69,000
Initial clearance                                                          _1l.500
Sub-total                                                                   80.500
Water Supply
Mains (3"; 1.5 km)                                                          32,775
(other; 1.5 km)                                                       23,805
Overhead tank                                                               51,750
Borehole                                                                     9,200
Capital contribution                                                        66.125
sub-total                                                                  183,655
Electricity Supply
Cable (1.5 km)                                                              59,800
Generators (standby)                                                        98,900
Public area lighting                                                        19,550
Capital contribution                                                        66.125
Sub-total                                                                  244,375
Roads and Drainage
Roads (1.5 km)                                                              80,500
Carparks, etc.                                                              13,800
Culverts                                                                    40,250
Drainage                                                                   195.500
Sub-total                                                                  330,050
Security Fencing
Sub-total                                                                   80.500
Telephones
Capital contribution (3 km)                                                 40,250
Switchboards, etc.                                                          66,125
Sub-total                                                                  106.375
TOTAL                                                                    1.025,455
Note:  All costs estimated as of and-1978.



ANNEX 5
5 57 -                               Table 3
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Project Buildings (3)
Net 4rea      Gross2Area       Cost2
m             m           per m       Total Cost
Design and Supervision                                                                      280,000
Administrative Blocks
Offices (7 + services)                              157            201          334           67,134
Washrooms                                            15             20          552           11,040
+ allowance for small contract size (12%)                                                     4,381
Total                                                                                         87,555
Teaching and Communal
Lecture rooms                                        60             81                        28,431
Seminar rooms (large)                                50             67                        23,517
Seminar rooms (small - 3)                            81            119                        41,769
Tutorial rooms (2)                                   38             51                        17,901
Audio-visual workshop                                35             47          351           16,497
Lecturers' offices (senior - 3)                      42             57                        20,007
Lecturers' offices (junior - 9)                     108            148                        51,948
Support offices (3)                                  60             81                        28,431
Library                                              80            108                        37,908
Washroom                                             22             30          552           16,560
+ allowance for small contract size                                                          33,933
Total                                                                                        316,902
Domestic and Boarding
Dining Hall                                          80            108          322           34,776
Kitchen                                              64             86          293           25,198
Common room                                         120            162          193           47,466
Enclosed yard                                       150            150          148           22,200
Maintenance/storage/laundry & workshops              40             44          293           12,892
Offices (2)                                          26             35          322           11,270
Student hostels (16 units of 4 rooms)               720            972          408          396,576
+ allowance for small contract size                                                          66,045
Total                                                                                        616,423
Gross Area2      Gross2Area       Coat2
Staff Housing                        No.    per House m            m           per m      Total Cost
Houses:  senior training              4          180               720          437          314,640
training                   11          160             1,760          437          769,120
administration              3          120               38t          380          136,800
2          80               160          351           56,160
2          60               120          351           42,120
Labor lines                          12           35               140          334          140,280
Recreational facilities                                                                      124,200
Total                                                                                     1,583,320
TOTAL BUILDINGS    N2,8~84200
Notes: Costs estimated as of end-1978. Allowance for Design and Supervision takes account
of 'Consultancy Fees Payable by the Public Sector' issued by Federal Ministry of Works
(October 1978).



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Vehicles, Furniture and Equipment
(N '000)
Unit Cost   Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total   Foreign Exchange   Local Cost
%        Amount
Vehicles
35-seater bus                    18.7        -       (1) 18.7         -           -           -          -      -           -           -
Minibus                           7.7   (1)  7.7           -     (1)  7.7         _           _          _       _           _          _
Pick-up                           5.5         -      (1)  5.5         -           -           -          _       _          _           _
Cars                              6.7   (2) 13.4    (1)  6.7   (2) 13.4   (2) 13.4            6.7        -      -    ,           _
Audio-visual equipped vehicle  11.0           -      (1) 11.0         -           -           -          _       _          _           _
Sub-total                                    21.1        41.9        21.1        13.4         6.7      104.2    90         93.8        10.4
Furniture, Fitting & Equipment
Administration offices                       14.5        7.3          -           -           -         21.8    40           8.7       13.1
Training specialists' offices                11.0      14.5                       -           -         25.5    40          10.2       15.3
Staff housing                                38.5      85.8           -           -           -        124.3    20         24.9        99.4
Teaching equipment                           22.0      19.8          19.8         -           -         61.6    80         49.3         8.4
Library                                       -          8.8           8.8        -           -         17.6    50           8.8         4.4
Students' rooms                               -        48.4           -           -           -         48.4    20          9.7        38.7
Kitchen                                       -        69.3           -           -           -         69.3    65         45.0        24.3
Laundry and ironing room                      -        14.5           -           -           -         14.5    65          9.4         5.1
Dining room                                   -        15.4           -           -           -         15.4    50           7.7         7.7
Common room                                   -         9.7           -           -           -          9.7    40          3.9         5.8
Clinic                                        -         2.4           -           -           -          2.4    65          1.6         0.8
Miscellaneous equipment for
groun upkeep                               -         18.2           -           -           -         18.2    65         11.2         7.0
Other maintenance equipment                   -        13.2           -           -           -         13.2    65          8.6         4.6
Sub-total                                    86.0     327.3          28.6         -           -       441.9    39         199.0       234.6
TOTAL                                       107.1     369.2           49.7       13.4         6.7      546.1    53        292.8       245.0
May 7, 1979                                                                                                                                   . U



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Academic Salaries, Training and Consultants
(N '000)
Academic Staff -                       Unit                                                                     Foreign Exchange   Local
Salaries & Allowances                  Cost    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total           %         Amount   Cost
*Director                               55.0       55.0       55.0       55.0      55.0       55.0    275.0       _
*Sen. Training Specialist (Finance)  55.0          27.5       55.0      55.0       55.0        -       192.5
*STS (General Management)               55.0       27.5       55.0      55.0       55.0        -       192.5    100         1,045.0    -
*STS (Interpersonal skills)             55.0       27.5       55.0      55.0       55.0        -       192.5
*Senior Media Specialist                55.0       27.5       55.0      55.0       55.0        -       192.5
Training Specialist (Finance I)         8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8        8.8        8.8     39.6
TS (Agricultural Economics)             8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8       8.8         8.8     39.6
TS (General Management I)               8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8        8.8        8.8     39.6
TS (GM II)                              8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8       8.8        8.8      39.6
TS (GM III)                             8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8       8.8        8.8      39.6
TS (Interpersonal skills I)             8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8       8.8         8.8     39.6
TS (Interpersonal skills II)            8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8       8.8         8.8     39.6      10           44.0  395.4          X
TS (Interpersonal skills III)           8.8        4.4        8.8        8.8        8.8        8.8     39.6                                        l
Media Specialist                        7.7        3.8        7.7        7.7        7.7        7.7     34.6
TS (Finance II)                         8.8         -          -          -        8.8        8.8      17.6
TS (General Management IV)              8.8         -          -          -        8.8        8.8      17.6
TS (Interpersonal skills IV)            8.8         -          -          -        8.8        8.8      17.6
Media Technician I                      4.4        2.2        4.4        4.4        4.4         -      15.4
Media Technician II                     4.4        2.2        4.4        4.4        4.4        4.4     19.8                  _    _
Total Academic Salaries                         208.4      361.9      361.9      388.3      163.9  1,484.4       73        1,089.0  395.4
Training Costs
Selected trainees"-                                -        75.0      150.0      150.0      150.0    525.0       50          262.0  263.0
Staff training3/                                  50.0      50.0       10.0       60.0       30.0    200.0    100            200.0    -
Total Training Costs                              50.0     125.0      160.0      210.0      180.0    725.0       64          462.0  263.0   0
Consultancy (per marmonth)              5.2      62.4       31.2        5.2       26.0        5.2    130.0    100            130.0    _        |X
Ln U'
* Internationally recruited.
1/ Cost of internationally recruited staff includes back-up and fees of management agency (man year cost of US$84,000) includes
US$30,000 base salary; US$18,000 for post allowance, cost of living allowances and gratuity, US$12,000 for medical, education
and settlement costs, and US$4,000 for international travel. Company overheads 10% and fees 18%.
2/ To be trained under contract with, and within, specialized production companies in either Nigeria or overseas (N15,000 per year)..
3/ Fellowships for overseas manpgement training of Institute Staff (N10,000 per year) at universities or specialized institutions.
May 7, 1979



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Administrative Salaries and Wages
(N '000)
Unit      Year 1       Year 2      Year 3        Year 4      Year 5    Total   Foreign Exchange   Local
Administrative Staff           Cost                                                                                         Amount   Cost
*Administrative Secretary    55.0    (1) 55.0    (1) 55.0   (1) 55.0            (1) 55.0   (1) 55.0   275.0)  100             275.0
Financ-ial Secretary           11.0                  (1) 11.0   (1) 11.0    (1) 11.0   (1) 11.0    44.0
Confidential Secretary          2.3    (1)  2.3    (1)  2.3   (1)  2.3    (1)  2.3   (1)  2.3    11.5
Chief Clerk                     2.3                  (1)  2.3   (1)  2.3    (1)  2.3   (1)  2.3           9.2
Accounts Clerks                 1.4                  (1)  1.4   (3)  4.2    (3)  4.2   (1)  4.2    14.0
Typists                        l1l                   (4)  4.4   (6)  6.6    (6)  6.6   (6)  6.6    24.2
Cleaners (office &
teaching blocks)              0.9    (1)  0.9    (2)  1.8   (4)  3.6    (4)  3.6   (4)  3.6    13.5
Works Superintendent            4.0                               (1)  4.0    (1)  4.0   (1)  4.0    12.0
Electrician                     2.3                               (1)  2.3    (1)  2.3   (1)  2.3         6.9
Mechanic                        1.6                               (1)  1.6    (1)  1.6   (1)  1.6         4.8                                             l
Plumber                         1.1                               (1)  1.1    (1)  1.1   (1)  1.1         3.3                                            g
Laborer (maintenance)           1.0                               (3)  3.0    (1)  3.0   (1)  3.0         9.0
Head Gardener                   1.1                               (1)  1.1    (1)  1.1   (1)  1.1         3.3
Laborers (grounds)              0.9                               (6)  5.4    (6)  5.4   (6)  5.4    16.2   10                33.3    300
Senior Patrolman                1.4                  (1)  0.7   (1)  1.4    (1)  1.4   (1)  1.4           4.9
Guards                          0.9                  (4)  1.8   (8)  7.2    (8)  7.2   (8)  7.2    23.4
Driver HDV                      1.4                               (1)  1.4    (1)  1.4   (1)  1.4         4.2
Drivers                         1.1    (2)  2.2    (5)  5.5   (8)  8.8    (8)  8.8   (8)  8.8    34.1
Domestic Supervisor             2.3                               (1)  2.3    (1)  2.3   (1)  2.3         6.9
Head Cook                       1.9                               (1)  1.9    (1)  1.9   (1)  1.9         5.7
Cooks                           1.1                               (3)  3.3    (3)  3.3   (3)  3.3         9.9
Kitchen Assistants              1.0                               (6)  6.0    (6)  6.0   (6)  6.0    18.0
Dining Room Stewards            1.0                               (4)  4.0    (4)  4.0   (4)  4.0    12.0
Cleaners/Laundry Workers        0.9                              (12) 10.8   (12) 10.8  (12) 10.8    32.4
Nursing Sister (part time)   1.9                                  (1) .1.9    (1)  1.9   (1)  1.9         5.7
Library Clerk                   1.4                               (1)  1.4    (1)  1.4   (1)  1.4         4.2
TOTAL                                       60.4          86.2       153.9        153.9        153.9   608.3   51           308.3      300
8  Internationally recruited.                                                                                                                 x
ON U7
May 7, 1979



NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Recurrent Costs
(N '000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total    Foreign Exchange    Local Cost
%        Amount
Staff Recruitment                   11.5        -         -          0.8        0.8      13.1     65          8.5             4.6
Staff Travel and Accomodation       17.3       25.3       32.2      32.2       32.2    139.2      10         13.9          125.3
Vehicle Operating Costs              9.2       27.6       27.6      27.6       27.6    119.6       60         71.8           47.8
Campus Maintenance - Materials       -         20.0       31.6      43.7       43.7    139.0      40         55.6            83.4
Electricity                          1.2        4.0        7.5       7.5        7.5      27.7      10          2.8           24.9
Water                                -          2.3        4.6       4.6        4.6      16.1      -           -             16.1
Fuel                                 -          -          1.8       1.8        1.8       5.4      35          2.2            3.3
Telephone and Postage                1.2        2.3        3.5       3.5        3.5      14.0      -          -              14.0
Stationery and Printing              1.2        7.5        5.2       5.2        5.2      24.3     55         13.4            10.9             I
Library Books and Publications       2.8       16.1        5.8       5.8        5.8      36.3      75        27.2             9.1
Students' Food                       -          -        51.8       51.8       51.8    155.4       15        23.3          132.1
Miscellaneous Expenses               5.5        8.6        8.6       8.6        8.6      39.9      15          6.0           33.9
Housing Rental (Temporary)          64.0        -          -         -          -        64.0      -          -              64.0
Rental of Course Premises            -         11.5        3.5       5.8        5.8      26.6      -          -              26.6
Rental of Offices (Temporary)       11.5       11.5        -         -          -        23.0     -           -              23.0
TOTAL                              125.4      136.7      183.7     198.9      198.9    843.6       27       224.7           618.9
May 7, 1979
3 D
(D X
LIen



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Table s
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Cash Flow (NtOOO)
(in current terms)
Year     Year       Year    Year        Year
1        2          3        4          5
Source of funds
Initial payment from FMG                     650                 -        -          -
FMG yearly contribution to costs           2,025    2,365         515     585        450
Disbursements from IBRD Loan                 675    1,910       1,520     710        730 1/
Student fees                                 -         -        _120      180        200
Total                                  3,350    4,275      2,155   1,475       1,380
Application of funds
Site preparation, services                 1,292       -          -       -          -
Construction of buildings                    728    3,488         -       -          -
Vehicle-equipment                            120       436         62       18         9
Ac. salaries and Cons.                       360       622        678     858        513
Adm. Salaries and wages                       72       116        233     263        297
Recurrent Costs                              158       207        333     433        520
Total                                  2,730    4,869      1,306   1,572       1,339
Surplus (deficit)                            620    (594)         849    (97)         41
Cumulative surplus                                      26        875      778       819
1/ Balance of IBRD Loan would be disbursed in FY 6



ANNEX 5
Table 9
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Financing Plan
(in Naira '000)
PYl           PY2           PY3            PY4           PY5          Total
Federal Government (including fees):
Site preparation and buildings    1,036.4        1,607.1          -              -             -           2,643.5
Vehicles, furniture and
equipment                            44.5         154.8          21.6            6.1            3.2         230.2
Academic salaries, training
and consultants                      94.8         159.6         169.5          209.8         122.7          756.4
Administrative salaries
and wages                            33.5          51.7         100.2          109.0         119.1          413.5   >
Recurrent costs                      132.8         163.4         261.8          296.2         330.9        1,185.1
Sub-total                      1,342.0        2,136.6         553.1          621.1         575.9        5,228.7
Contingencies                     84.2          264.4          85.4          112.3         167.2          713.5
TOTAL                          1,426.2        2,401.0         638.5          733.4         743.1        5,942.2
IBRD Loan:
Site preparation and buildings      847.9        1,424.9          -              -             -           2,272.8
Vehicles, furniture and
equipment                           73.4          261.6          36.6           10.2           5.2          387.0
Academic salaries, training
and consultants                    256.2          431.4         458.4          611.3         375.9        2,133.2
Administrative salaries
and wages                           34.8           53.8         104.2          113.5         123.9          430.2
Recurrent costs                      -              -             -              -
Sub-total                      1,212.3        2,171.7         599.2          735.0         505.0        5,223.2
Contingencies                     90.3          296.1          68.1          103.7          91.2          649.4
TOTAL                          1,302.6        2_467.8         667.3          838.7         596.2        5,872.6
(US$ equivalent)                 (2,000)        (3,800)       (1,020)        (1,290)         (890)        (9,000)  
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 2,728.8        4,868.8       1,305.8        1,572.1       1,339.3       11,814.8      X
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   '-a~~~~~m   >
(DXt-



64 -
ANNEX 5
Table 10
NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
(in US$ million)
Fiscal
Year        Semester        Amount          Cumulative             Balance
1980         First            0.5               0.5                  8.5
Second          1.0               1.5                  7.5
1981         First            1.3               2.8                 6.2
Second          1.2               4.0                  5.0
1982         First            0.9               4.9                 4.1
Second          0.9               5.8                  3.2
1983         First            0.7               6.5                 2.5
Second          0.7               7.2                  1.8
1984         First            0.7               7.9                 1.1
Second          0.7               8.6                  0.4
1985         First            0.4               9.0



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
NIGERIA
AGPTCULTURAL AND RURAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE
MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
I. DRAFT INVITATION TO CONSULTANTS TO SUBMIT PROPOSALS
FOR THE PROVISION OF CONSULTING SERVICES
(for issue following completion of prequalification procedures)
1.01      The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR)
is inviting proposals from consulting firms, having international experience
in the development of programs of practical management training, for the
provision of consulting services to the Board of the proposed Agricultural
and Rural Management Training Institute, for which financing is being sought
from the World Bank Group. An appraisal mission from the World Bank Group
has completed its field work and the project is presently under consideration
by the Bank. A description of the project is attached.
1.02      The services required are as follows, and details are shown in the
accompanying terms of reference:
(a)  project management services for a period of up to five
years to administer the establishment of the proposed
Institute, including the preparation of tender documents
for procurement of goods under international competitive
bidding 1/, procurement of equipment and supplies by
local competitive bidding, tender evaluation and recom-
mendations for award, and contract supervision;
(b)  the recruitment of international and Nigerian staff to
fill senior administrative and teaching positions at the
Institute;
(c)  the arrangement of suitable training programs both within
Nigeria and abroad for Nigerians selected to fill teaching
and coulnterpart positions as staff of the Institute;
1/   Tendering and procurement, and selection of consultants, will be carried
out in accordance with the policies and procedures of the World Bank
Group as detailed in its publications "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" March 1977, and "Uses of Consultants
by the World Bank and its Borrowers" April 1974.



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
(d) the identification in detail of management training needs
in a sample of typical agricultural organizations which
the Institute would serve, and the preparation of detailed
curricula for training modules to meet these identified
needs;
(e) the operating of the training courses; and
(f) the design of a system of on-going internal evaluation to
be conducted by the Institute to evaluate the success of
training provided.
1.03      The Government of Nigeria, in consultation with the World Bank, will
select a consultant firm to carry out the required services. Selection will
be made on the basis of the proposals submitted in response to this invita-
tion 1/. Given the scope of the services required, the most satisfactory pro-
posal might be a joint submission by two or more firms - one firm experienced
in practical management training, and another familiar with management prob-
lems in the rural sector of developing countries and with experience of
project implementation in Africa.
1.04      On receipt of this invitation, consultants are requested to:
(a) acknowledge receipt and confirm their interest;
(b) promptly conduct a review in Nigeria of the work to be
undertaken during which they would consult with government
agencies in Lagos, Kaduna and elsewhere likely to be
associated with the implementation of the project, and
with a sample of larger agricultural employers in the
country; and
(c) prepare and submit a detailed proposal for the consulting
services in accordance with the attached terms of reference.
A proposal should give full details of the services to be
provided, and a curriculum vitae of at least one possible
candidate for the post of director of the proposed Institute.
Proposals should be submitted to the Permanent Secretary,
FMAWR, P.O. Box 12700, Lagos, Nigeria. The closing date
for submission of the proposal is sixty days after the date
of this invitation.
1/   See footnote on page 62.



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
Background
2.01      Since 1970, the Nigerian economy has expanded very rapidly and,
during the period 1970-1975, GDP growth in real terms averaged 7% per annum
with particularly brisk growth in the non-agricultural sectors. However,
61% of Nigeria's population of 77 million is dependent on agriculture, and
agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of smallholders
whose levels of technology and productive efficiency are low.
2.02      Government is acutely aware of the need to improve performance in
the agricultural sector and to invest substantial revenues from oil, a wasting
asset, in order to expand and diversify the rest of the economy in which agri-
culture must eventually become the dominant sector. In the revised Third Five
year Development Plan, a total of N4.8 billion has been earmarked for the
sector, and a variety of channels are already being used to implement the
agricultural development programs. These include large scale rule development
projects in the north, tree crop projects in the south, and the establishment
of state development corporations in every state, which have already financed
a variety of agricultural production programs. At the same time, all forms of
agro-services e.g., marketing, credit, expansion, supply, farm machinery,
etc., are being strengthened to support these developments.
2.03      Rapid development of the non-agricultural sector, and the creation
of a number of new states, has already created a drift of able people away
from the rural areas to more lucrative employment in the towns. This situa-
tion is accelerating staff promotion processes in the agricultural organiza-
tions, and, increasingly, young and inexperienced people are finding them-
selves in positions with supervisory and managerial responsibilities for
which they have not received appropriate training. This fact is already
slowing the pace of agricultural development and has serious implications
for the future. Expatriates are being recruited to implement agricultural
development programs in increasing numbers, and the Nigerian authorities
place high priority on training local personnel to remedy this situation.
2.04      Existing agricultural institutions have been established primarily
to provide pre-service training in technical agricultural and related sub-
jects for young people entering careers in agriculture; existing management
training organizations have developed in response to the management training
needs of industry and commerce, and are neither staffed nor suitably oriented
to provide training in management skills for agriculture. There is, there-
fore, an urgent need to establish an institution capable of providing training
for managerial and supervisory staff at all levels in the agricultural in-
dustry to improve their overall management capabilities and performance.



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
The Proposed Project
2.05      The objective of the project would be the establishment of an
Institute to provide training in managerial and supervisory skills for staff
at all levels of agricultural and rural management. Trainees would be drawn
from all sectors of the agricultural industry, and also from related supply
and marketing organizations and from selected Local Government Councils
directly involved with agricultural production. The principal components
of the proposed project would be:
(a) the construction of a residential campus near Kaduna, or
at another site; a second campus might be constructed
later if the first campus proved successful, and demand
for such training justified expansion;
(b) the detailed identification of management training needs
in agricultural organizations, and the development and
execution of training programs to meet these needs;
(c) technical assistance to fill five senior posts at the
Institute while Nigerians are being trained to take over
these positions;
(d) the training in management training techniques of qualified
Nigerians who would fill teaching positions at the Institute
and, after gaining sufficient experience, would take over
from internationally recruited staff;
(e) the establishment of an evaluation system to assess
continuously the effect of the training programs.
2.06      The authority responsible to Government for the implementation of
the project would be a specially created Board of Governors. The Director
of the Institute would be a member of this Board.
2.07      The training approach to be followed at the Institute would be highly
job-specific and would utilize modern methods of management skills development
which have proved their value in industry and commerce in many parts of the
world. There is very little teaching support material available in Nigeria at
present for agricultural management training, and the Institute would include
an audio visual production unit which would produce suitable material.
2.08      The preparation and appraisal studies for this project have not
defined detailed management training requirements for specific categories of
staff in different organizations, nor drawn up detailed curricula for the
individual skills training modules which will form the basic units for course
construction. This work is essential to the success of the training envisaged
and should be carried out by specialists in relevant fields of management
training while construction of Institute facilities is under way. This work
is to be undertaken by consultants and reported upon in a report on Training
Needs and Curricula to be prepared under the attached terms of reference.



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
III. TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Objectives
3.01      The objective is to establish the Agricultural and Rural Management
Training Institute and make it an effective institution for the training in
relevant management skills of managerial and supervisory staff from all
sectors of the agriculture industry in Nigeria, so as to increase their
management capability and improve their management performance.
B. Scope of Consultants' Services
General
3.02      The consultants shall perform all functions herein described as
required to attain the objectives given in Section I hereof. In the conduct
of the services, the consultants shall cooperate fully with the Government,
which will be responsible for providing the facilities and services outlined
in Section III hereof. The consultants shall be solely responsible, however,
for the findings and recommendations contained in their reports.
Operations and Responsibilities of Consultants' Team
3.03      The personnel of the consultants will hold the posts of director,
three senior training specialists, one senior media specialist and an adminis-
trative secretary within the Institute; the posts of director and administra-
tive secretary for a period of up to five years, and the other four posts for
up to three and a half years. During such time, they will be responsible for
the establishment of the Institute, the identification of training needs,
the development of courses, the training of staff, and for the teaching
of courses.
3.04      In addition to the above, the consultans shall provide the following:
(a) three personnel for a period of up to three months each
during the first year following the starting date 1/, to-
identify in detail the major management training needs of
managerial and supervisory staff at different levels in a
representative sample of State Ministries of Agriculture,
State Development Corporations, IBRD-financed agricultural
development projects, and large scale farming operations.
1/   One month after signing of contract.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Following the identification of these training needs, the
consultant's personnel shall draw up detailed curricula
proposed. The three personnel provided shall each be a
specialist in one of the following general areas of manage-
ment training: financial management, interpersonal skills,
general management practices;
(b) specialist personnel for up to two months to assist the
director in planning and establishing systematic evaluation
procedures to:
(i) evaluate on a continuing basis the relevance and
success of the various training courses provided
by the Institute, and
(ii) revise course and syllabus content as required to
make the training more effective and relevant to
particular needs of different organizations served
by the Institute;
(c) specialist personnel for up to three months during the first
eighteen months following the starting date to assist the
director with the work of establishing procedures for
tendering and ordering of supplies and equipment for the
Institute, and for handling the planning of buildings,
letting of contracts and supervision of construction.
3.05      Primarily the personnel of the consultants shall:
(a) through the director, advise and assist the Institute's
Board of Governors in formulating policy for the estab-
lishment, administration and operations of the Institute;
(b) assume responsibility for liaison with the architects super-
vising the construction of buildings, and for recruitment of
staff and the operation of the Institute;
(c) establish working relationships with employers in the
agricultural sector;
(d)  in consultation with agricultural employers, identify
specific management training needs at the various levels
within the respective organizations and the numbers
requiring training within those levels;
(e) plan detailed curricula for teaching modules, and develop
suitable teaching support materials for such studies;



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
(f)  prepare suitable training programs to meet the requirements
of specific employers; teach courses to develop the manage-
ment skills required, and perform the necessary follow-up
work to reinforce this training;
(g)  advise the Board of Governors on the selection and overseas
training of suitably qualified Nigerians to fill teaching
staff positions at the Institute;
(h)  train Nigerian personnel to perform all the duties asso-
ciated with effective practical management training, and
train selected personnel to take over the senior teaching
positions;
(i)  develop a system for regular and effective evaluation of
the management training provided by the Institute at all
levels;
(j)  advise and assist the Board of Governors of the Institute
with an evaluation of the Institute's work and the demand
for its training after two years of operation, which evalua-
tion would be used in deciding on the future development
of the Institute; and
(k)  make appropriate arrangements for the orderly transfer of
executive responsibilities and functions to Nigerians.
Duties of the Personnel of the Consultants
3.06      The personnel of the consultants shall hold the following positions
and shall perform functions as set forth in respect of such positions:
(a)  Director:  shall be a member of the Board of Governors of
the Institute and shall advise the Board on policy matters
and perform the duties defined for his office in the
articles establishing the Institute.
(b)  Three Senior Training Specialists:  shall each be responsible
for one of the three teaching sections of the Institute;
shall each be in charge of the development of curricula and
teaching materials for the various training modules prepared
and used by their respective sections, and responsible for
all aspects of the needs identification, teaching of courses
and follow-up reinforcement conducted by staff within their
sections, and for the on-the-job training of Nigerian per-
sonnel appointed to teaching posts within their respective
sections.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
(c)  Senior Media Specialist:  shall work closely with the
three senior training specialists and be responsible for
the production of teaching materials required for the
various courses taught at the Institute including case
studies, films and film strips, course outlines and
manuals; for supervising the maintenance of all audio
visual aids and teaching equipment used at the Institute,
and for the training of trainers attending courses at the
Institute in the preparation and use of audio visual
materials.
(d) Administrative Secretary: shall work closely with the
director and be responsible for all administrative and
financial matters. He will undertake the renting of
temporary housing, procurement of furniture, equipment,
office supplies, recruitment of clerks and typists and
maintenance of students' records. He will deal with routine
public relations duties and prepare regular reports on the
Institute's activity. The catering supervisor will answer
to him on all arrangements concerning the Institute hostel.
All the consultants' personnel shall be available for
evaluation work.
Time Schedule and Reports
3.07      The director and the administrative secretary shall assume their
duties in Nigeria as early as possible, and no later than the starting date.
Other staff of the consultants shall assume their duties within six months
of the starting date.
3.08      The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports in
English on the indicated dates:
(a) A Report on Training Needs and Curricula, one year after the
starting date, summarizing the findings of the consultants'
personnel, making proposals for detailed curricula for
individual modules to be used in training courses, and
including recommendations for teaching support materials
needed to supplement each module; (5 copies to the Bank
and 50 copies to the Government).
(b) Progress Reports at three-month intervals (beginning three
months after the starting date), summarizing all work per-
formed during the reporting period and outlining the work
program for the next two reporting periods; (5 copies to
the Bank and 50 copies to the Government).



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
(c) An Interim Report at the time of the completion of con-
struction of the Institute, and immediately prior to the
enrollment of students, outlining the major steps taken in
the Lstablishment of the Institute and design of courses,
major difficulties encountered, and any other factors which
would provide useful information when expanding the program
and facilities ,or establishing a second campus; (5 copies
to the Bank and 50 copies to the Government).
(d) A Report (to be prepared in consultation with the Bank and
the Government of Nigeria), prepared after two years of
operation of courses at the Institute outlining the training
completed by the Institute up to that time; a critical
evaluation of the success of the training and the training
methods used; an assessment of the demand throughout the
country at that time for the training being offered by the
Institute, and recommendations for the possible further
development of the training activities at the Institute and
the establishment of a second campus if necessary. This
report should also contain recommendations for work to be
performed after the termination of services of the consul-
tants; (5 copies to the Bank and 50 copies to the Government).
(e)  A Final Report 42 months after the starting date outlining
all work performed by the consultants and the results obtained;
(5 copies to the Bank and 50 copies to the Government).
C. Facilities and Services to be Responsibility of the Government
3.09      The Government, through its contribution to the cost of the project
to establish the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute, is to
provide the consultants with services, facilities, equipment and personnel
so as to ensure the satisfactory performance of the Institute.
3.10      It is expected that this will include:
.
(a) full-time qualified administrative and supporting staff;
(b) full-time qualified teaching and counterpart staff for whom
the consultants' personnel will arrange both formal and
on-the-job training until they are sufficiently skilled and
experienced to take over from the consultants' personnel;
(c) office space in temporary accommodation prior to the com-
pletion of the Institute, and office equipment and supplies
and services including secretarial services, and telegraph,
telephone and postal services;



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
(d)  suitable temporary housing for the personnel of the
consultants and their families until houses for them
have been constructed on the Institute; and
(e)  transportation within Nigeria including vehicles, drivers,
and vehicle repair and maintenance.
3.11      The Board of Governors of the Institute will issue letters of
appointment to the personnel of the consultants who will hold executive
positions at the Institute.



!6ED 13708RI
E  R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DN I G E R I A
~,  IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
Cha            Eo,Ushtg, Apprcaised -rd Unrder Preparation
entnka                                                                                         '~~~~~~~~~~sg      Ag-uto2tual De-olp-7rm
L.fte (Loa- 1454-UNIt(
Ay-qnbo (Lo-an I5-JNI)
4    N                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-e- (Loa- 1092-UNI)
C.-                                              13  C, P   N   L)                          Nld~       ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GCs- (Lo.t 1099-UNI)
K   f)  T  KANO                                                                                                                G..V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Doe (L... 1164-UNI)
PM k ~~~~~~~~~~f~jAPPRAISED:
rUS Al,.sa(Ond.), Den Nrth
UNDER PREPARATION
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 A DcN St.te
0                  ~~~~~~~Sard--o
I G E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    '~Tr-i-g Project:
~~~ ~~~  / ~~~APPRAISED
A  K.f-~~~~~~                                                                                         ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ <7 CHAD  T 3  g,tcettrol ad R-to
P   L A   T   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~yeTree Crzp Proj1ect,-
RAI                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
C  TA                                                                                                  C--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eol 01Ple 64eoNI)9-UI
toed 0,1 Polt, (Loon 1191 UNI)
net- Store 0 1 Polo (Leo. 1525-UNI)
APPRAISED.
R- 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptst
A,                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNADER PREPARATION
E N U E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[]Ceno. ST (ptobobly atoon- o Con-I&RD
10                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cton  Rent REtId
rr,gat-o Proenct:
EXISTING
A.t',.e.o0oeeentoetSo0nO0ennt                      R-tn (Loan 1103-UNI(
___________    Linesteck Deneloproe-l Project
VAM    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'.AOEI   .   Oe~(Leon 1091-UNI(
r                                                                                  Z ~~~~~~~~hs.4  e seoscsnee  ~a -~7EXISTING.
c-P S~~~~ R9V~~~~k  _______ ~~~~MAEI  '                              I        I            0      NottnolLetc- PocreIC  oce
T,                                                             )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R   2CHAse  -  Western, --te-ko Co Roahes
T                                                                                           4" ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.  DAON  A  No,tthtE-st- C.e R-ochn
7 my'                                                                   G.-5TO[~0 ,-~OtSt0se~    Dotg Rese,e-Fel- G-op Ranches
2tdthf  o9   cfottpy               0   00  on  n~~~~~~ob  SO  Ie           eeh  oe         0 



