LOAN NUMBER 2036 UNI
OLG Project Agreement
(Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Dated                      103       , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2036 UNI
OLG PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated W      - >41  /5           , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT (hereinafter called
OLG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that OLG agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Anambra State of Nigeria (hereinafter
called Anambra State), an amount equivalent to sixty-seven million
dollars ($67,000,000) will, out of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement, be relent by the Borrower
to Anambra State on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C) by two sub-loan agreements to be entered into between
Anambra State and Anambra State Water Corporation (hereinafter
called ASWC) and between Anambra State and OLG an amount
equivalent to fifty-five million two hundred thousand dollars
($55,200,000) or such amounts as shall be allocated to ASWC under
Category (1) in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement will be relent by
Anambra State to ASWC out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
Anambra State by the Borrower and an amount equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000) or such other amounts as shall be
allocated to OLG under Category (2) (a) and (c) in said Schedule 1
will be relent by Anambra State to OLG out of said proceeds, on
the terms and conditions set out in the sub-loan agreements;
and
WHEREAS OLG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) OLG shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public services practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) OLG shall furnish to the Bank an approved layout plan
for Okpoko.
Section 2.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon
OLG's obligations under Section 2.01 hereof, OLG shall make
adequate budgeting provisions for:
(a) the effective operation and maintenance of the solid
waste management programs included in its Part of the Project
(including debt service and equipment replacement costs relating
thereto); and
(b) the payment to ASWC of all moneys due for water consumed
at standpipes within OLG's area of authority.
Section 2.03. In order to assist OLG in carrying out its
Part of the Project, OLG shall (i) not later than September 30,
1981, employ a Town Treasurer; and (ii) if and when necessary,
employ consultants and experts for improving the traffic flow
in Onitsha and the accounting systems of OLG; whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment
(including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) OLG shall establish and thereafter maintain
in a form with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank a
sanitation department.
(b) OLG shall: (i) appoint a Sanitation Department Manager
to head the Sanitation Department; and (ii) not later than
September 30, 1981, employ land fill management and workshop
management experts. The qualifications and experience and the
terms and conditions (including terms of reference) of appointment
or employment of the said Manager and experts shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Anambra State Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) OLG undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan on-lent to it by Anambra State
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by OLG to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, OLG shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan on-lent to it by Anambra State to be used exclusively for its
Part of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) OLG shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
its Part of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) OLG shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of its Part of the Project, to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in its Part of the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in its Part of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish


﻿-4-
- to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning its Part of the Project, the
cost and,   where appropriate, the benefits to be derived there-
from, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of its Part of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Bank and OLG, OLG shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of its Part of the
Project, the cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by OLG and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the OLG Project Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) OLG shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of OLG and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.08. OLG shall duly perform all its obligations
under the OLG Sub-loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, OLG shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
OLG Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) OLG shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its
Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the OLG Sub-loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) OLG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
its Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by OLG of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the OLG Sub-loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.10. OLG shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out its Part of the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, as soon as possible after such acquisition, satisfactory
evidence that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to its Part of the Project.
Section 2.11. OLG shall, not later than December 31, 1983,
take all necessary actions in respect to land rights in the
district of Okpoko, in order to enable OLG to regularly collect
the property tax established by the Anambra Local Government Law
No. 9 of 1976.
Section 2.12. OLG shall cause the facilities provided under
its Part of the Project to be adequately maintained and cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OLG
Section 3.01. OLG shall:
(a) at all times manage its affairs, plan the development of
its properties and facilities and maintain its financial position
in accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering, public
services and financial practices under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management; and shall cause its plant, equip-
ment, properties and facilities to be maintained and all necessary
renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate administrative, engineering, public services and
financial practices;
(b) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice;
(c) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its operations; and
(d) not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient conduct of its
operations.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. OLG shall at all times carry on its operations
under qualified and experienced managerial staff, with sufficient
supporting staff, in accordance with appropriate management
practices. The said managerial staff shall include a Sanitation
Department Manager and a Town Treasurer.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) OLG shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) OLG shall in agreement with Anambra State's Ministry of
Local Government and the Bank establish and maintain improved
accounting systems for its services.
Section 4.02. OLG shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropliate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case (commencing with fiscal
year 1981) not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
OLG and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of OLG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify OLG thereof.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States or America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OLG:
The Secretary
Onitsha Local Government
PMB 1724
Onitsha, Anambra
Nigeria
Cable address:
Local Government
Onitsha


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of OLG may be taken or executed by the
Chairman or such other person or persons as shall designate in
writing, and shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByA/4e
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /       day of 1      ,198   .
FOR SECRETARY


