LOAN NUMBER 2036 UNI
ASWC Project Agreement
(Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
Dated                       /3    , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2036 UNI
ASWC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  AJ"'r      1   / 2         , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION (hereinafter
called ASWC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that ASWC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth; and
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Anambra State of Nigeria (hereinafter
called Anambra State), an amount equivalent to sixty-seven million
dollars ($67,000,000) will, out of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement, be relent by the Borrower
to Anambra State on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C) by two sub-loan agreements to be entered into between
Anambra State and ASWC and between Anambra State and Onitsha Local
Government (hereinafter called OLG) an amount equivalent to
fifty-five million two hundred thousand ($55,200,000) or such
other amounts as shall be allocated to ASWC under Categories (1),
(5) and (6) in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement will be relent by
Anambra State to ASWC out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
Anambra State by the Borrower and an amount equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000) or such other amounts as shall be
allocated to OLG under Category (2) (a) and (c) in said Schedule 1
will be relent by Anambra State to OLG out of said proceeds on the
terms and conditions set out in the sub-loan agreements; and
WHEREAS ASWC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ASWC shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ASWC shall establish and thereafter main-
tain in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank a project unit (hereinafter called "Project Unit") to assist
ASWC in carrying out its Parts of the Project.
(b) ASWC shall establish and thereafter maintain for the
purposes of the Project Unit a commercial bank account into which
shall be deposited all payments made to ASWC out of the proceeds
of the Loan and all contributions and payments made by Anambra
State to ASWC 1or purposes of the Project.
(c) ASWC shall appoint as head of the Project Unit a Project
Manager whose qualifications and experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. In order to assist ASWC in carrying out its
Parts of the Project, ASWC shall: (i) employ consultants and
financial, commercial, training and operations experts; and
(ii) not later than September 30, 1981, employ a Chief Training
Officer, a Commercial Adviser and an Electrical and a Mechanical
Superintendent; whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Anambra State Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) ASWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan on-lent to it by Anambra State
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by ASWC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ASWC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan on-lent to it by Anambra State to be used exclusively for its
Parts of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) ASWC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
its Parts of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) ASWC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of its Parts of the Project, to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in its Parts of the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited repr-sentatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in its Parts of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan on-lent to it by Anambra State and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning its Parts of the Project, the cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by Anambra State and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.


﻿-4-
(d) Promptly after completion of its Parts of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Bank and ASWC, ASWC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of its Parts
of the Project, the cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived therefrom, the performance by ASWC and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the ASWC Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) ASWC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of ASWC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. ASWC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the ASWC Sub-loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ASWC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the ASWC Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) ASWC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its
Parts of the Project, the performance of its oblig.tions under
this Agreement ad under the ASWC Sub-loan Agreeme,. and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ASWC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
its Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by ASWC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the ASWC Sub-loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. ASWC shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out its Parts of the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, as soon as possible after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to its Parts of the Project.
Section 2.10. ASWC shall cause the facilities provided under
its Parts of the Project to be adequately maintained and cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ASWC
Section 3.01. ASWC shall:
(a) at all times manage its affairs, plan the development of
its properties and facilities and maintain its financial position
in accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering, public
utilities and financial practices under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management; and shall cause its plant, equip-
ment, properties and facilities to be maintained and all necessary
renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate administrative, engineering, public utilities and
financial practices;
(b) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amo!nts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice;
(c) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its operations; and
(d) not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient conduct of its
operations.
Section 3.02. (a) ASWC shall at all times carry on its
operations under qualified and experienced managerial staff, with
sufficient supporting staff, in accordance with appropriate
management practices.
(b) ASWC shall consult with the Bank before making or
agreeing to make any future appointments to the posts of Project
Manager, Commercial Manager and Chief Training Officer of ASWC.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ASWC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. ASWC shall keep separate accounts and prepare
separate financial statements for its Onitsha Zone and such other
zones as shall be agreed with the Bank and shall establish and
thereafter maintain with adequate funds a commercial bank account
for the Onitsha Zone into which ASWC shall deposit the total
revenues of that zone which shall be used primarily for payment of
Onitsha Zone's capital and operating expenditures.
Section 4.03. ASWC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements in respect of each of its zones and the
consolidation thereof) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year in the case of fiscal year
1981 and the years following, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ASWC and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.',4. Except as the Bank shall other -se agree:
(a) ASWC shiall, from time to time, take or c.use to be
taken all such measures (including adjustments of the structure
or levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce in the
Onitsha Zone and in such other zones as shall be agreed by the
Bank and ASWC for each fiscal year following after December 31,
1982, funds from internal sources equivalent (i) with respect to
the Onitsha Zone, to not less than an average of 23% of ASWC's
capital expenditures for Onitsha Zone for the fiscal years 1983
through 1986 or for such later period as shall be required to
complete the Project; and (ii) with respect to any other zones
agreed by the Bank and ASWC, to such other percentage of capital
expenditures for such zones and for such periods as may be agreed
by the Bank and ASWC.
(b) Before October in each of its fiscal years, ASWC shall,
on the basis of appropriate plans and forecasts to be prepared
by ASWC on a basis satisfactory to the Bank, review the adequacy
of its tariffs with a view to meeting the requirement set forth


﻿- 7 -
in paragraph (a) above for the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its
completion.
(c) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) the term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(1) the sum of gross revenues from all sources,
net consumer contributions for connections
or other construction works, net non-operating
income and any reduction in non-cash working
capital; and
(2) the sum of all operating expenditures for
each zone, including maintenance and admin-
istration (excluding depreciation and other
non-cash operating charges but including
a reasonable share of ASWC's headquarters
operating expenses), interest or other
charges on debt (excluding interest financed
under a loan contract), repayment of loans
(including sinking fund payments, if any),
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all
casuL diviuends and other casn CisL..out&ons
of surplus, increase in net working capital
other than cash, and any other cash outflows
other than cash expenditures.
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" means all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed or
capital assets, including interest charged
to construction, if any.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ASWC
shall not incur with respect to the Onitsha Zone and any Zones
selected under Section 4.04 of this Agreement any debt unless the
consolidated net revenues of Onitsha Zone and the selected zone or
zones for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incur-
rence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date
of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum consolidated debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of Onitsha Zone and


﻿- 8 -
the selected zone or zones including the debt to be incurred. For
the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by ASWC, except debt incurred
in the ordinary course of business and maturing by
its terms on demand or less than one year after its
incurrence;
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment of
such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A)
under a loan contract or agreement, on the date the
loan contract or agreement is entered into and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered
into but only to the extent that the underlying
debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "consolidated net revenues" means gross
operating revenues of ASWC, adjusted to take
account of tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating expenses, including adequate mainte-
nance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses,
but before provision for depreciation and debt
service requirements;
(iv) the term "consolidated debt service requirements"
means the aggregate amount of amortization
(including sinking fund payments, if any), interest
and other charges on debt of ASWC; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is obtainable by ASWC, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, if such other currency is not
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿-9-
Section 4.06. ASWC shall maintain its assets at current
prices through annual revaluation of such assets using methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank and on the basis of such revalued
assets provide for annual depreciation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ASWC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify ASWC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ASWC:
The General Manager
Anambra State Water Corporation
P.M.B. 1296
3 Constitution Road
Enugu, Anambra,
Nigeria
Cable address:                     Telex:
WATER CORPORATION                  51161 WATER NG
Enugu
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ASWC may be taken or executed by
the General Manager of ASWC or such other person or persons as
ASWC shall designate in writing, and ASWC shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be


﻿- 11 -
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B y /V      20-  /)W,(,
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /-      day of       , 198/.
FOR SECRETARY


