Report No. PID8740
Country Name                     Republic of Turkey
Project Name                     Economic Reform Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       TUPE68792
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Turkey
Implementing Agency              Undersecretariat of Treasury assisted by
Central Bank of Turkey
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           February 15, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        December 15, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 30, 2000
Recent Economic Developments
1.      The new Government, installed following national elections last April,
has launched an ambitious economic reform program geared to take Turkey into
the 21st century and set the stage for the country's entry into the EU.
Despite implementing a major adjustment program in the 1980s, Turkey's
economic performance has remained well below that of the fastest growing
developing economies. In addition, output has been highly volatile with the
economy subject to periods of rapid growth followed by sharp declines.
Moreover, inflation has remained persistently high, driven by an oversized
public sector and extended government intervention in the economy notably in
the agriculture and the infrastructure sectors. High inflation has stunted
deepening of the financial sector, thereby creating bottlenecks for private
sector investment and distorting resource allocation. The result has been a
vicious circle of financial sector weakness and dependence on money creation
and the inflation tax to finance public sector deficits. Macroeconomic
imbalance has contributed to periodic crises, as in 1994, which have led to
further government intervention, such as the introduction of 100 percent
deposit insurance, that has restored short-term stability at the cost of
increased public sector liabilities and longer-term uncertainty. Underlying
fiscal problems have been exacerbated by an underdeveloped tax system, weak
public sector governance and postponement of structural measures such as
reform of the public pension system. Against this backdrop of macroeconomic
imbalance and structural weaknesses, partial reforms, such as the
introduction of private participation in the energy sector, have not had the
intended effect on investment and growth, but have rather tended to increase
the government's contingent liabilities and weaken the financial condition of
key state owned enterprises. During much of the past decade, these
weaknesses were masked by a growing economy. However, the fall off in growth
over the past two years has highlighted the fragility of public finances,
characterized by an unsustainable accumulation of public sector debt, and



rapid increases in external debt service driven in large part by a reliance
on short-term borrowing.
The Government's Economic Reform Program
2.      The Government has reached agreement with the IMF on a macroeconomic
framework covering the 2000-02 period. The Government's macroframework
combines tighter fiscal policies, designed to put public finances on a
sustainable path, with a nominal exchange rate anchor designed to lower
inflationary expectations and structural reforms aimed at restoring growth
and sustaining the disinflation effort. The stabilization program targets a
decline in (CPI) inflation to 25 percent by the end of 2000 and to 10-12
percent by the end of 2001, compared with the 69 percent inflation registered
in 1999. In parallel, real domestic interest rates are projected to fall
from an estimated average of 40 percent (ex-post) in 1999 to about 25 percent
in 2000 and close to 15 percent in 2001. Single digit inflation is targeted
for 2002, along with real interest rates of 12 percent. In tandem with
falling inflation and interest rates, the macroframework aims to pull the
economy out of recession. The program targets growth of 5.6 percent and 5.2
percent in 2000 and 2001 respectively, compared with a drop in output of at
least 2.1 percent in 1999.
3.      The Government's structural reform program aims to underpin
macroeconomic stability and create the conditions for sustainable and more
equitable growth. The program focuses on six critical actions. Implement
structural fiscal reforms to underpin tighter fiscal policy. Ensure a fair
and financially sustainable social security system. Protect the integrity of
the financial sector and improve the efficiency of financial intermediation.
Promote agricultural growth and rural income generation. Deregulate the
energy and infrastructure sectors and accelerate privatization.     The fiscal
reform program has three basic objectives. The immediate goal is to support
the 2000 budget with sufficient revenue and expenditure measures to ensure
that the targeted fiscal adjustment can be met. The second goal is to
sustain this adjustment in 2001 by replacing the temporary measures which
dominate the 2000 fiscal package with longer-term structural measures. The
third goal is to consolidate the shift in the fiscal balance over the medium
term. The latter is to be accomplished through institutional reforms to
improve public sector management and deeper structural reforms in key areas
which have been the source of quasi-fiscal deficits in the past including the
social security system, the financial sector and agriculture.
4.      Reforming the social security system is essential to restore the
system's solvency over the medium term and ensure an adequate and sustainable
level of benefits. The Government is following a three phase reform strategy.
The first phase focuses on policy reforms to the public pay-as-you-go (PAYG)
pension system to stem operating losses--which were approaching 3 percent of
GNP per year before the Parliament enacted a major policy reform last August.
The second phase of the social security reform strategy, planned for 2000,
focuses on strengthening the organizational underpinnings of the system,
extending its coverage, separating the pension system from associated health
insurance and unemployment schemes, and eliminating accumulated arrears. The
third phase is to introduce a framework for supplementary individual pension
schemes. Achieving these goals will set the stage for the transition over
the longer term to a modern, multi-pillar pension system within the framework
of a broader, financially sound and administratively coherent social security
system.
-2-



5.      The Government's agriculture reform program encompasses three main
initiatives designed to reduce the heavy burden on the budget and Turkish
consumers, while promoting agricultural growth which has fallen over the
decade. The first step is to introduce a unified national program of direct
income support which will improve the access of poorer farmers to budget
support and create new income generation opportunities by improving
incentives. A pilot direct income support program will be carried out in
2000. In parallel, the Government intends to phase out the unsustainable and
distortionary system of price and credit subsidies which disproportionately
benefit large farmers and regressively tax consumers. The third reform
initiative is to privatize most state enterprises in agriculture in order to
reduce government involvement in the marketing and processing of agricultural
products. Completing the agriculture reform program is a medium-term
objective. The Government has set a target date of 2002 for completing the
rollout of the direct income support system and the elimination of price
subsidies.
6.      Turkey needs to attract private investment in the energy,
telecommunications and infrastructure sectors in order to sustain growth over
the medium term. Accelerating privatization and private participation in
existing facilities is also essential to generate the revenues needed to
restructure and stabilize the public sector debt. At the same time, it is
critical that proper legal and regulatory measures be taken to support
private sector participation in infrastructure. The Government is trying to
move simultaneously on several fronts to remove legal obstacles to private
participation and investment, and accelerate privatization. A core objective
is to bolster the legal and regulatory framework in the telecommunications
and energy sectors in order to support the transition over the medium term
from centralized models to competitive market structures which meet EU
standards. The development of transparent and independent regulatory
structures will help Turkey to achieve the maximum gains from private sector
participation and privatization in the infrastructure sectors.
7.      The Government is restoring the momentum of Turkey's privatization
program which was dissipated in early 1999. Accelerating privatization is a
key supply-side element in the effort to restore growth. It also represents
a core component of the fiscal package for 2000. The Government is committed
to raising privatization revenues in cash of US$ 7.6 billion (3.5 percent of
GNP) and a total of US$ 18 billion over 2000-02. This is a very ambitious
goal. By comparison, Turkey raised a total of US$ 6 billion in privatization
revenues over the past decade. A new privatization program, which includes
major companies of national importance, has been approved. The first pillar
of the privatization program involves opening the capital of Turk Telekom and
sale of two additional GSM wireless licenses to private investors.
8.       The second and third pillars of the privatization program cover the
electricity and enterprise sectors respectively. Electricity sector
privatization was originally targeted to generate US$ 1.1 billion in revenue
in 2000. However, this process will take time to complete and it is not
clear how much revenue will actually be generated in 2000. If there is a
revenue shortfall from the energy component, the Government will compensate
by accelerating further the other components of the privatization program.
The third pillar is the program managed by the Privatization Administration
(PA) which is targeted to raise about US$ 5.3 billion (US$ 3.2 billion in
cash) from privatization of state economic enterprises. The PA is making
-3 -



progress in implementing its program. An important benchmark is the
privatization of the Petroleum Distribution Company (POAS) for which the
tender has been closed and the bids received are under review. This deal
will be finalized in the second quarter of 2000. A second major operation in
the program for 2000 is the sale of shares in the Petroleum Refinery Company
(TUPRAS) for which IPO preparations are underway and are expected to be
launched in April 2000. Three additional large-scale companies for which
sales are planned in 2000 are Turkish Airlines (THY), a major iron and steel
complex (ERDEMIR) and a petrochemical company (PETKIM). The program also
includes a number of smaller-scale companies which could provide a more
immediate supply-side boost to the private sector.
9.      While economic reform will have many positive impacts on people's
lives, it will put stress on Turkey's underdeveloped social safety net. At
the macroeconomic level, while the disinflation program centers on a large
fiscal adjustment, it does not require a reduction in domestic absorption
given that Turkey does not face a balance of payments problem. The price
stability induced by the disinflation program will be beneficial to
vulnerable groups who have been adversely affected by previous episodes of
unanticipated inflation, albeit temporarily. The targeted resumption of
growth will also help the vulnerable. The social security reform will
strengthen the social insurance pillar of the safety net, although the
positive impact will take time to materialize. On the other hand, the reform
will generate losers as well as winners. Among the groups likely to be
hardest hit by the reform are workers in state-owned enterprises slated for
privatization. The authorities are defining a strategy for strengthening the
social protection that can be provided to groups adversely affected by the
reforms.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
10.     The ERL is part of a broader program of adjustment lending from the
Bank under the high case program of the Country Assistance Strategy. The
Government's reform program has met all of the high-case triggers included in
the 1997 CAS. Financing under the proposed loan will provide immediate
balance of payments and budgetary support to Turkey to meet requirements
arising from the reform program. Technical advice and dialogue provided
through the loan will help the authorities shape the specific reform measures
included in the program with the benefit of international best practice. Up-
front support from the Bank in the form of the ERL, and other associated
adjustment operations under the high case, will also provide an important
signal of confidence in the program to the international financial markets
and official creditors. This commitment from the Bank will help catalyze co-
financing for the program from other official partners. Without the Bank's
involvement, the Government may not sustain such a strong program of
structural reforms.
Project Objectives and Description
11.     The proposed Economic Reform Loan will assist Turkey to implement its
economic reform program by providing quick disbursing financing for the
balance of payments and the budget. The loan is designed to help the
Government implement its economic reform program and achieve its
macroeconomic objectives of taming inflation and restoring sustainable
growth. The ERL will support the Government's structural reform program in
- 4 -



the areas of structural fiscal reforms, modernization of the social security
system, reform of agricultural support policies, deregulation of the
telecommunications and energy sectors, and acceleration of the privatization
program. A key objective is to ensure that the core structural components of
the reform program are implemented effectively. The ERL will help the
authorities develop a track record of reform implementation and help keep the
program on track by providing well defined benchmarks in key sectors.
Monitoring of economic developments by Bank staff in close collaboration with
the IMF will help ensure adequate macroeconomic diligence on the part of the
Government.
12.     The proposed ERL would be structured as a two tranche operation for a
total of US$ 759.6 million. The proposed loan will provide quick-disbursing
support against the Bank's standard negative list. The proposed loan is part
of a larger package of adjustment lending from the Bank, including a proposed
FSAL under preparation, which takes into account the support expected from
the IMF and Turkey's other international partners. The loan will be
disbursed in two tranches: the first tranche of US$ 384.6 million (including
a one percent fee to the Bank) will be released upon effectiveness and the
second tranche of US$375 million will be released upon fulfillment of the
specific conditions, as long as general progress on implementation of the
Letter of Development Policy (including achieving macroeconomic stabilization
objectives) is also satisfactory. The Borrower will allocate US$ 2 million
from the first tranche to support the pilot direct income support program in
agriculture for which TL 120 billion has been appropriated in the 2000
government budget. Disbursement arrangements will be consistent with standard
Bank policy for adjustment operations.
Implementation Arrangements
13.     The project will be implemented by the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT)
based on an Implementation Agreement between the Undersecretariat of Treasury
and the CBT. Implementation arrangements will be fully consistent with Bank
practice for adjustment loans. Upon notification by the Bank of project
effectiveness and second tranche release, the proceeds of the first and
second tranches respectively of the loan will be deposited by the Bank into
the designated Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. In accordance
with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules
under Structural Adjustment and Sector Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996),
disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases. Therefore, there
will be no procurement requirements. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed within one month of second tranche release. The expected timing for
release of the second tranche would be the first quarter of CY 2001. The
closing date will be September 30, 2001.
Risk Factors
14.     The program of structural reforms that the proposed ERL would support
faces significant economic and political risks. Among the more important
economic risks are those related to the feasibility and sustainability of the
fiscal adjustment, the behavior of real interest rates, the pace and extent
of economic recovery, and the ability of Turkey to attract the necessary
levels of external capital inflows. There is also a risk that certain
aspects of the reform program could adversely affect vulnerable groups. A
further issue relates to the administrative capacity of the Government to
- 5 -



implement such a broad and fast-paced reform program. Although the Turkish
administration is quite strong compared to most Bank clients in the region,
implementation capacity remains a significant source of risk. The Bank is
responding to this latter risk by preparing a program of investment projects
which will support implementation of key reform measures. Political risks
arise from the range of socially sensitive structural reforms included in the
program such as the pension reform and the reform of agricultural support
policies, as well as the privatization and market deregulation measures which
may impact on established interests. The ERL will be designed to support
ambitious, yet achievable benchmarks. However, acceleration of structural
reform will ultimately depend on political will and internal consensus.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
James Parks, ECSPE
The World Bank Turkey Office
211 Ataturk Bulvari
06683 Kavaklidere
Ankara, Turkey
Telephone: 90- (312) 468-4527
Fax:       90- (312) 468-4526
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.Processed by the InfoShop week
ending Fabruary 25, 2000.
-6-



