            Document of
         The World Bank




                                      Report No: 31606

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (SCL-45490)

               ON A

               LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$759.6 MILLION

        TO THE REPUBLIC OF

              TURKEY

              FOR AN

         Economic Reform Loan




          February 16, 2005

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective February 7, 2005)

                        Currency Unit = YTL
                               1YTL = US$ 0.7638
                               US$ 1 = YTL1.3093

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1    December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARIP  Agric. Reform Implementation Project
ASCU  Agriculture Sales Cooperatives
CEM   Country Economic Memorandum
CPI   Consumer Price Index
DIS   Direct Income Support
EMRA  Energy Regulatory Authority
ERL   Economic Reform Loan
ES    Civil Servants Pension Scheme
GNP   Gross National Product
PA    Privatization Administration
SEE   State Economic Enterprises
SSK   Employee Pension Scheme
TEAS  Electricity Generation Company
TEDAS Electricity Distribution Company
TA    Telecommunications Authority
VAT   Value Added Tax



                      Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
                     Sector Director:   Cheryl Gray
                 Task Team Leader:      Ismail Arslan

                                           TURKEY
                                   Economic Reform Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P068792                                                  Project Name: Economic Reform Loan
Team Leader: Ismail Arslan                                           TL Unit: OEDCR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Economic Reform Loan                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-45490
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (30%); Central
                            government administration (20%); Telecommunications (20%);
                            General energy sector (20%); Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Social risk
                            reduction (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); Tax policy and
                            administration (S); Other financial and private sector development
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/30/1999                                     Effective: 04/24/2000                06/27/2000
     Appraisal: 01/19/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/18/2000                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY/UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Ajay Chibber
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Ismail Arslan                                  James Parks
ICR Primary Author:             Elliott Hurwitz (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Economic Reform Loan (ERL) was to assist Turkey to implement its economic reform
program by providing quick disbursing financing for the balance of payments and the budget. A key aspect
was to ensure that core structural components of the reform program were implemented effectively to
ensure the sustainability of the disinflation program and create the basis for restored growth. The reform
program was expected to have a major impact in improving macroeconomic stability, strengthening public
sector governance, increasing living standards, and reducing economic vulnerability.

Technical advice and dialogue in conjunction with the project was expected to help shape specific reform
measures with the benefit of international best practice, and support from the Bank was expected to provide
an important signal to international financial markets and other official creditors.

The objective was highly relevant to the obstacles in the path of Turkey's economic development. ERL
provided an additional incentive to continue the dismantling of the statist policies in each of the areas
described below; reform progress, which had been inconsistent over the past few decades, showed promise
to accelerate. And continued progress toward fiscal responsibility and macroeconomic stability was and is
crucial to the acceleration of growth.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components consisted of:

1.       Macroeconomic performance
2.       Fiscal Reform and Adjustment
3.       Social Security Reform
4.       Agricultural Reform
5.       Telecommunications Reform
6.       Energy Reform
7.       Enterprise Privatization.

The loan was designed in two tranches; the first of US$384.6 million was released upon effectiveness (and
fulfillment of specified conditions). The second tranche of US$375 million was released upon fulfillment of
further conditions and satisfactory progress in the reform program. The second tranche was originally
intended to be released within 1 years of project inception, but it was released 4 years after effectiveness.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was overall satisfactory. The ERL was entirely consistent with the 1997 CAS; the
Government's reform program met the policy requirements for the "high case" as stated therein, including
major fiscal adjustment, substantial disinflation, and implementation of comprehensive reforms (complete
requirements listed in section 10). The design of the ERL was also supported by considerable analytical
work: a poverty study and a CEM completed in parallel with ERL preparation, as well as an analysis of the
sensitivity of interest rates to disinflation (citations in section 10).

While the project was very ambitious and comprehensive, in 1998 and 1999 the Bank had received a



                                                         - 2 -

number of signals that the country was beginning to undertake fundamental policy changes. The
front-loaded ERL, though quite inclusive, was deemed a more promising approach than a set of smaller
steps, or less far-reaching goals--a position with which QAG agreed, as noted below. Key aspects of the
reform program (including agricultural and energy reform) were the subject of intensive dialogue over a
period of several years, including national seminars in 1998 and 1999. And legislation reforming the
Social Security System was passed in 1999. The ERL policy matrix was reviewed extensively with Turkish
authorities, and was the subject of continuous discussion in the six weeks leading up to negotiations.

Further, the ERL was complemented by a number of other policy-related loans (Table 1, below), all of
them implemented satisfactorily, which amplified and reinforced reforms completed under ERL.
Identification and appraisal of the ERL was also marked by an intense dialogue with Turkish
policy-makers and with the IMF, with some Fund conditions reinforcing ERL positions.

          Table 1 Context of ERL: Other recent policy-based lending to Turkey
Loan                         Approved            Main policy areas                           Outcome
                                                                                             rating (OED)
PFPSAL III                   6/04                Financial, public sectors                   ongoing
Energy Liberalization        5/04                Electricity Sector                          ongoing
Proj
PFPSAL II                    4/02               Fiscal, financial sector, public sector     mod. sat.
PFPSAL I                     7/01                Fiscal, financial sector, public sector     satisfactory
ARIP                         7/01                Agricultural subsidies, structural          ongoing
                                                 reforms
FSAL                         12/00               Financial sector                            mod. sat.

ERL Quality at Entry was also deemed satisfactory by QAG, with satisfactory ratings across all
categories. Borrower ownership was rated satisfactory, and country knowledge highly satisfactory. In
particular, the Panel praised the project as being part of a well-thought-out program of reform. QAG also
praised the technical acumen of the ERL team.

This ICR considers several aspects of the ERL design as unrealistic, however. First, the project originally
estimated that the reform program could be carried out in 1 years, an overestimation of the pace at which
reforms could be completed; the ERL was closed in 4 years (a further discussion of the delay is presented
below in section 4.1). Second, project conditionality required that 20% of TurkTelecomm be sold. (As
described later, this was not accomplished and a waiver was granted in return for a package of specified
actions) As a practical matter, selling a minority share of a state-owned telecommunications company,
without permitting the buyer to have any management participation, was an unlikely prospect.

A final design shortcoming was the formulation of the condition on energy privatization: "....launch of
pre-qualification tenders for the same of electricity distribution companies as agreed with the Bank." This
condition did not take adequate account of the considerable amount of progress that would have to precede
it, e.g., unbundling of the distribution companies, establishment of market rules. This situation is discussed
in section 4.2, below, in the section on energy reform, as well as in sec. 8 (Lessons Learned).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Organization of this ICR: The ERL consisted of a very broad overall objective elaborated by 7 components



                                                      - 3 -

corresponding to the main sections of the project conditionality. The conditionality matrix (Annex A)
specifies sub-objectives for each area, and so this ICR presents in section 4.2 detailed evidence of
achievement organized by the 7 components and their included sub-objectives.

Overall, project outcome was satisfactory, as most relevant objectives were achieved, though later than
envisioned. Achievement is described in the next section, and is summarized as follows:

1.      Macroeconomic performance:         satisfactory
2.      Fiscal Reform and Adjustment: satisfactory
3.      Social Security Reform:            unsatisfactory
4.      Agricultural Reform:               satisfactory
5.      Telecomm Reform:                   moderately satisfactory
6.      Energy Reform:                     moderately unsatisfactory
7.      Enterprise Privatization:          satisfactory

Fulfillment of conditionality: All project core and non-core conditions were met, except as noted below.
Two core sub-conditions were not met, in the telecomm and energy areas. Waivers were granted, and the
government agreed to substitute specific, time-bound reform programs instead of the original conditions.
As described below, the outcome was more favorable in the telecomm area than in energy.

Delays: Project achievements occurred later than envisioned. The project became effective in June 2000
and was originally scheduled to achieve its objectives in around 1 years. However, in November, 2000,
and February, 2001, the country had financial crises that occupied the attention of policy-makers and
necessitated extensive financial sector reforms. Following elections in late 2002, the new government
began working with the Bank in early 2003 on implementation of the remaining ERL conditions. The Bank
extended the closing date several times because of the extraordinary conditions and because by mid-2002, 6
of 9 second tranche conditions had already been met. In the event, the project closed in April, 2004.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Macroeconomic performance

Objective: Lower inflation to 10-12 percent by 2001 while promoting sustainable growth of output and
employment, strengthening the structure of the external capital account, and correcting the weaknesses
that underlie macroeconomic imbalances.

Macroeconomic performance was overall satisfactory. Performance was generally good from 2000 to
2004, but with some deficiencies. There were financial crises in November, 2000 and February, 2001,
with a significant deterioration of growth in 2001. Since these setbacks, however, the economy has
rebounded strongly. As shown in Figures 1 and 2 below, over the period as a whole inflation fell
dramatically and the public sector borrowing requirement declined substantially. These were landmark
achievements in a country inured to high levels of inflation and substantial domestic borrowing.

        Figure 1: CPI Inflation, 2000-2004                                  Figure 2: Public Sector
Borrowing
                                                                            Requirement, 2000-2004




                                                     - 4 -

                              CPI inflation                                               PSBR


                     80                                                       25

                     60                                                 %     20
     inflation                                                                15
                     40                                                       10
                     20                                                  PSBR, 5
              annual
                    % 0                                                        0
                        2000 2001     2002    2003 2004                          2000  2001  2002 2003   2004




Macroeconomic outcomes for the period of the ERL generally met the benchmarks set under the economic
program, but with some deficiencies: inflation did not reach program levels until 2004, and fiscal
performance fell slightly short of the primary surplus target, achieving a 2003 primary balance of 6.3%
against a goal of 6.5% (Table 2). As also shown in the table, exchange rates have been mainly stable for
the last 3 years after falling dramatically in 2001. The current account, however, remains of concern.
Despite the high growth rates after the 2001 financial crises, unemployment rate has remained high. The
country has been under an IMF program since December, 1999, and Annex B presents a detailed
comparison of macroeconomic program goals as revised annually and actual performance.

                            Table 2: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
                                           1998    1999    2000      2001         2002     2003    2004 (est)
 Annual Real GNP growth, %                 3.9     -6.1     6.3       -9.5         7.9      5.9      10.0
 CPI inflation                             69.7    68.8    39.0       68.5        29.7      18.4      9.3
 Nominal interest rate                     98.7    103.2   38.0       99.1        63.5      44.1     24.8
 Primary Fiscal Balance, % of              0.5     -2.0     3.0       5.5          4.1      6.3       6.6
 GNP
 Public Sector Borrowing                   15.8    24.7    18.9       21.1        12.0      9.8       6.9
 Requirement, % of GNP
 Net Public Debt, % of GNP                 44.5    57.8    58.3       93.9        78.8      70.5     70.3
 Current Account, US$ billion              2.0     -1.4     -9.8      3.4          -1.5     -7.9     -14.6
 Exchange rate, Million                    0.26    0.41    0.62       1.22        1.50      1.49     1.42
 Lire/US$

Source: Bank and Fund estimates

Signal to international markets: As stated in the project documents, support from the Bank was expected to
provide an important signal to international financial markets and other official creditors. In this context,
it should be noted that in early 2000, Turkey resumed borrowing on international capital markets, which
had not been possible for a number of years. The markets recognized that with a Fund program in place
and the Bank once again lending, Turkey was more creditworthy. At the time of the ICR mission, Turkey
was a regular participant in these markets.

2. Fiscal Reform and Adjustment

Objective: Underpin fiscal adjustment through a combination of revenue increases and structural
measures to strengthen the tax system and improve public expenditure management and control.

Fiscal reform was satisfactory. As shown in Table 1, the country's fiscal accounts--as measured by the
primary balance--improved significantly during the time of the ERL, in part due to implementation of the


                                                            - 5 -

structural measures achieved during the project. For example, a Board condition called for the elimination
of 20 of the extant 61 budgetary funds, and a second tranche condition called for elimination of at least 25
more. In the event, all budgetary funds except one were closed, as well as 6 extra-budgetary funds, more
than fulfilling the ERL target.

Additional measures achieved in pursuit of fiscal reform included:

       Limits on the introduction of new projects into the public investment program: The number of new
        projects was reduced, as was their average completion time. The average completion time was
        reduced by 32% from 2001 to 2002, and a further 10% in 2003, with the number of projects
        introduced also falling each year.
       VAT increase from 15% to 17%; 20% increase in VAT on alcohol and tobacco; additional
    increases amounting to 1.1% of GNP altogether.
       Introduction of a package of new taxes, tax increases, and surcharges raising around 2% of GNP.
       Establishment of a public registry of government guarantees and limits on guarantees: A public
    registry was established, and limits were established on the issuance of new guarantees.
       More effective expenditure control mechanisms: Budgetary mechanisms were standardized across
    agencies, and external audit strengthened.

3. Social Security Reform

Objectives:
       Introduce structural reforms to the three public social insurance funds with a view to ensuring
        financial sustainability, increasing coverage and compliance, and improving quality of service.
       Create legal and regulatory framework for private pension funds to diversify the sources of
    long-term savings and facilitate development of the capital market.

Achievement in the area of Social Security reform was unsatisfactory. Although all ERL conditions
involving structural reforms were met, the key goal of ensuring financial sustainability was not met during
the period of the ERL. Although it is possible that in the longer term the structural changes made will
reduce the system's deficits, this had not yet occurred as of the project close. Positive elements included
successful achievement of structural reforms:

Structural Reforms: The ERL was intended to facilitate reforms initiated by the government in 1999, as
well as to implement additional measures to modernize and improve social insurance. Most of these actions
were taken as envisioned:

       The 1999 pension reform law was fully implemented, with increased retirement ages, increased
        minimum contributions, and reduced replacement rates.
       After some legal problems, administrative changes were implemented that promise to reduce
        overhead costs and improve operating efficiency. Analytic capacity was also enhanced.
       A plan was adopted to improve the collection of contribution arrears, however, the majority of such
        arrears will probably go uncollected.
       An unemployment insurance scheme was established. As of September, 2004, around 70,000
        workers were receiving payments for a period of around 6-8 months depending on their work
        history. The system also paid laid-off workers' health insurance premiums, matched potential
        workers with available job opportunities, and provided training.
       Legislation to support individual pension plans was passed and regulations promulgated. By



                                                     - 6 -

         mid-2004, there were 11 pension funds authorized to collect contributions, and nearly 50,000
         contributors.

However, negative elements included growing budgetary transfers:

Budgetary Transfers to Social Security: As shown in Table 3, below, budgetary transfers to the social
security funds declined substantially from 1999 to 2000, thereby meeting the ERL second tranche
condition, "to generate 0.5% of GNP in fiscal savings in 2000." But the fiscal situation of the funds
subsequently deteriorated for two reasons. First, real wages fell after the 2000 and 2001 crises, while
payments were indexed to inflation, causing an increasing gap between income and payments. Second, in
2003 and 2004 Parliament approved social payments to all pensioners and increased pensions (unrelated to
the indexation provided for in the law). These cost an estimated 0.87% of GNP in 2003. As shown in the
table, budgetary savings were reduced to 0.58% in 2001, and 0.21% in 2002. By 2004, transfers were
0.70% higher than in 1999.

The introduction of the ad-hoc pension increase was inconsistent with the objectives of social security
system reform. While the weak economic performance in 2001 certainly played a role in the reduced
budgetary savings, the trend and the extent of the deviation from the savings target set under ERL indicate
that further structural reforms may be needed to secure the medium-term health of the system. (Many such
reforms are being considered by the prospective Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan)

Table 3: Budgetary Transfers to Social Security Funds
                          1999            2000                2001              2002              2003
Total transfers,          3.75             2.57               3.17               3.52              4.45
as % of GNP
Source: Calculations by the project team.

As shown in the table, the overall budgetary transfer to the social security funds rose by around 19% from
1999 to 2003. Broken down by its main components, from 1999 to 2003, the Employee Pension Scheme
(SSK) reduced its budgetary subsidy by 5%, while the Self-employed Pensions (BK) budgetary subsidy
rose by 35%, and the Civil Servants Pension Scheme (ES) rose by 30%. The lack of reform of the ES
scheme was a major factor in the poor performance of pension reform.

Finally, the envisioned expansion of coverage did not occur. Approximately 11.1 million workers were
covered by the system in 1997, and 11.0 million in 2004. A possible reason for this decline was the
movement of workers out of the formal economy in response to the increased levels of earnings subject to
social security contribution.

4. Agricultural Reform

Objectives:
        Introduce unified national program of direct income support targeted over time to poorer
    farmers
        Phase out price and credit subsidies for agriculture
        Restructure and initiate privatization of state enterprises in agriculture

Achievement in the area of agricultural reform was satisfactory, with significant progress toward each of
the objectives stated above. The reform program in agriculture was supported by both ERL and ARIP, so



                                                     - 7 -

the achievements described below should be attributed to both projects. For example, the DIS program
was piloted under ERL, with implementation being supported by ARIP as well as ERL.

Direct Income Support: ERL supported the introduction of a Direct Income Support (DIS) program to
compensate for the removal of existing distortionary and unsustainable subsidies for fertilizer, credit, and
price supports. By September, 2004, approximately 90% of the country's agricultural households were
registered and receiving direct income support payments, comprising around 79% of the area under
cultivation. Farmers received around 160 million TL per hectare in payments, with a maximum eligible
area of 50 hectares. Payments under DIS totaled US$976 million in 2002, US$1,506 million in 2003, and
an estimated US$1,757 million in 2004.

Supporting the establishment of DIS, a National Registry of Farmers was created in order to calculate and
justify DIS payments. Data in this system have been expanded over the course of ERL and ARIP and are
increasingly being analyzed and used for policy purposes.

Reduction of subsidies: Subsidies and price supports have nearly been eliminated. By 2002 subsidies to
agriculture had been reduced by over 90% compared to 1999. Cuts were made in agricultural support
prices as well as input and output price subsidies and direct credit subsidies. Budgetary transfers to
Agriculture Sales Cooperative Unions (ASCU), described in the next section, have been terminated.
However, there has been modest backsliding on credit subsidies, as indirect measures have been used to
offer sub-market rates to farmers (e.g., in August 2004, farm loans were being offered at 25% while market
rates were 30%). Tobacco price-setting by the state was abolished, with prices now being set by auctions
between private parties. State purchases of grain (to support prices) were reduced from 4.4 million tons to
2.4 million from 1999 to 2002, and have subsequently dropped below 1 million tons. Intervention in the
hazelnut market was discontinued, and price supports for sugar were phased out, but quotas were
introduced. In addition to the reduction in subsidies, tariffs on grain were reduced from around 85-90% to
45%.

Restructuring and privatization of state enterprises: ASCUs have essentially been transformed into
autonomous entities, and budgetary funding has been terminated. However, a revolving fund to deal with
their existing debt was established and additional funds were appropriated (from ARIP) to cushion the
severance of their workers.

Significant progress was made in the privatization of other agricultural SEEs:

        The state tobacco company was offered for sale, but bids did not meet the state's reserve price and
    the firm was re-offered in late 2004, and the tender process is continuing.
        The PA has established a timetable for the sale of factories formerly owned by the state sugar
    company, one factory has been sold, and the PA expects tenders to be issued on an ongoing basis.
        The agricultural machinery company is being liquidated, with its largest complex having been
    merged into another firm which is itself being privatized.

5. Telecommunications Reform

Objectives:
        Promote private participation and competition in telecommunications
        Accelerate privatization




                                                     - 8 -

Achievement in this area was moderately satisfactory, with most major objectives achieved but with
significant shortcomings. Positive elements included:
       Establishment of a regulatory authority: The Telecommunications Authority (TA) was established
        in 2000 and has been functioning effectively since then. Amendments to the telecomm law ere
        passed in 2001 that transferred licensing authority to the TA. TA meets established international
        criteria for regulatory agencies, and has issued licenses for mobile operators, around 90 Internet
        Service Providers, and numerous other telecomm operators. TA has also issued a number of other
        technical and business regulations that have the effect of liberalizing the telecomm market.
       Turk Telecomm (TT) was prepared for privatization. The company was corporatized in 2000, and
        a strategic analysis of its operations performed by an international consulting firm. The company
        has replaced nearly its entire management team with staff with private sector telecomm experience.
       Liberalization of the telecomm market: TT's exclusive right to provide fixed-line service expired
        at the end of 2003, one year before the country's commitment to WTO to take this measure. Partly
        as a result, prices for many services have fallen dramatically:
        o        Prices for calls from mobile to fixed lines have declined 60-70%
        o        Prices for long-distance calls have fallen around 30-40%
        o        International call prices have declined up to 80%
        o        TT's prices have fallen on average 45-60%
       Sale of wireless licenses: A wireless license was sold in 2000 to a consortium consisting of both
        Turkish and foreign investors. However, the tender for a second wireless license did not attract
        any bidders above the reserve price. TT was the winning bidder for a 3rd mobile license, however,
        adverse business conditions required that TT's entity merge with another firm to form a new
        majority-private entrant.
       Growth in mobile service: The number of mobile subscribers has grown to around 33-34 million
        (2004), exceeding the number of fixed-line phones. There are currently 3 firms providing wireless
        services, and the market is highly competitive.

It should be noted that some of the market liberalization and growth in mobile service noted above was not
attributable to ERL, as 2 wireless licenses were auctioned prior to ERL effectiveness.

However, shortcomings included:
       Failure of privatization strategy: The planned sale of 20% of TT to a strategic foreign investor in
        September, 2000 did not succeed. This first effort included insufficient management rights to
        attract interest, and so a second tender for a 33.5% stake was held in May, 2001, with stronger
        management rights, but it also did not attract a bid. In retrospect, it was probably unrealistic to
        expect an offering of a 20% share, with no management rights, to attract significant attention. It
        should be noted, however, that under the law existing until mid-2001, it would not have been
        possible to sell more than 50% of TT.

     However, in response to these events, the government and TT moved quickly to accelerate TT
        privatization:
        o Legislative amendments were passed permitting privatization of up to 100% of TT, with the
             sole proviso that the government continue to have a voice in the company regarding national
             security (which interest is to be clearly defined). These same amendments provided that TT's
             exclusive rights to fixed line service would expire at the end of 2003, which required TT to be
             more focused on providing competitive services.
        o TT has retained an international financial advisor, as well as legal and technical advisors, to
             assist in the privatization. In close coordination with the PA, TT has made 11 presentations to



                                                       - 9 -

              potential investors, and has made available audited financial reports of its last 3 years results.
         o The tender process for the block sale of 55% of Turk Telekom was initiated with tender
              announcements of November 25, 2004, with a bidding deadline of May 31, 2005. The Cable
              TV infrastructure belonging to TTAS was kept outside of the tender.

It should also be noted that the ERL was implemented in close coordination with the Privatization Social
Support Project (FY01), which strengthened the safety net for laid-off workers. This is especially
important in the context of TT privatization, because the firm still employed around 56,000 workers as of
September, 2004, with the prospect of lay-offs after its sale.

6. Energy Reform

Objectives:
        Strengthen legal and regulatory framework for private participation and private investment
        Promote efficiency, private participation and competition in the energy sector
        Accelerate privatization

Achievement in this area was moderately unsatisfactory. While the ERL undoubtedly advanced the energy
reform agenda, achievement at the time of the ICR mission was not commensurate with the expectations
envisioned in the project documents. While significant progress was made in establishing and strengthening
the regulatory framework, a key condition--launch of pre-qualification tenders for the sale of electricity
distribution companies--was not met, and the condition was waived. In return, a Strategy Paper was
developed with high-level government support, which laid out a plan and timetable for the first steps in
sector privatization. Unfortunately, at the time of the ICR mission, progress in accord with the Strategy
Paper seemed to be lagging, and there were numerous potential obstacles to a successful outcome.

Positive elements included:
        An Electricity Market Law was passed (2001) which established an independent regulatory
         agency, EMRA, with full authority over tariff policy and a mandate to establish a competitive
         sectoral environment. EMRA is fully functional, has issued cognizant regulations, has licensed
         firms active in the sector, and has facilitated the direct access of large electricity customers to
         purchase directly from sources of their choice. (EMRA has benefited from technical assistance
         provided by the EU)
        The former generation and transmission company, TEAS, has been restructured into 3 completely
         separate organizational entities for the 3 functions.
        It has been decided that TEDAS, the distribution company, would be sub-divided into 21 operating
         units which are intended to become independent distribution companies.
        TEDAS has modestly reduced the high rate of electricity theft--generally acknowledged as in
         excess of 20%. TEDAS also improved collections by outsourcing collections to private firms.
        EMRA has been designated as the regulator for the natural gas market, and a new natural gas law
         was passed (2001). A number of other steps toward restructuring the natural gas sector were also
         taken, including privatization of 2 city gas distribution systems.
        As of end-2004, natural gas distribution licenses were granted to companies in 20 cities

Negative elements included:
        As noted earlier, the expected launch of pre-qualification tenders for the sale of electricity
         distribution companies did not take place, and a waiver was issued by the Bank.
        In lieu of the planned launch of tenders, a Strategy Paper was issued with specified steps to be



                                                       - 10 -

         taken according to a defined timetable. However, as of the ICR mission, it seemed unlikely that the
         tasks envisioned would be achieved in accordance with the established schedule:
         o While the territory of each of the planned 21 distribution companies has been agreed, the
             companies themselves have not yet been corporatized. Consequently, the units are not yet legal
             entities, and agreement has not yet been reached on such potentially contentious issues as the
             division of physical assets, staff, and other resources.
         o Overall agreement has not yet been reached on what is to be sold at tender, either the physical
             assets of the distribution companies, the transfer of operating rights in a designated area, or
             something in between. A Turkish court has ruled that the physical assets could not be sold to a
             private owner, but an acceptable formula has not yet been reached.
         o Disagreements among key agencies involved in the privatization process, which hindered
             earlier progress, have not yet been resolved. For example, TEDAS has been reported as
             placing obstacles in the path of reform, including hampering the establishment of a "balancing
             market," wherein entities with a temporary surplus of electricity can offer this for sale to those
             who are in need.
         o Agreement has not yet been reached on a schedule of regional tariffs that reflect differences in
             the cost of producing, transmitting, and distributing electricity.
         o The Strategy Paper schedule envisioned that the launch of tenders would begin in March,
             2005, but with the obstacles described above not yet surmounted, this seems highly unlikely.

As discussed earlier in "Quality at Entry," the condition relating to privatization of the distribution
companies did not adequately take into account the necessary antecedent achievements that would permit
the condition to be met, for example, those listed in the previous paragraph.

It should be noted that in 2003-04, disagreements between government agencies continued to hinder
achievement in this area. In response, the Bank established an Expert Panel of recognized international
experts to mediate differences between the agencies, which resulted in the "Strategy Paper" noted above--a
positive step. The Panel had the credibility to cut through objections from some agencies and develop a
realistic plan.

In the supervision of the ERL, the Bank insisted that "privatization" connoted the sale of physical assets,
whereas the government preferred the concept of the "transfer of operating rights." This difference of
viewpoint hindered progress; however, the eventual court ruling on the impermissibility of the sale of
physical assets to a private company finally settled the issue.

7. Enterprise Privatization

Objective:
        Accelerate privatization

Achievement in this area was satisfactory, with four large firms sold compared to a project condition of
selling 3 large companies from a defined list of candidate firms (privatization during the preceding few
years had been quite limited). All state shares in the petroleum distribution company, POAS, were sold in
stages from 2000 to 2002. The steel company ERDEMIR was merged with another firm and the
government's holdings brought below 50% by 2002. A 100% share of the alcoholic beverages unit of
TEKEL was sold in late 2003, and a 66% share of the refinery company TUPRAS was sold in early 2004,
however, the transaction was later overturned by court action.




                                                     - 11 -

Several additional privatization actions were taken in late 2004 that were called for in the ERL MOP:
ATAKOY Tourism Group and SEKA Paper and Pulp are in the process of privatization, while 23% of
Turkish Airlines was sold in December, 2004.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact was substantial:

        Structural fiscal reforms, such as the implementation of more effective expenditure control
         mechanisms and the strengthening of external audit, streamlined and made more effective the
         budgetary process.
        In the Social Security area:
         o For the first time in the country's history, an unemployment scheme was instituted, which
             promises to improve the efficiency of labor markets.
         o Legislation was passed to support the establishment of individual pension plans.
        In agriculture:
         o A DIS system was established and most subsidies and price supports were phased out.
         o ASCUs were essentially transformed into autonomous entities, with no budgetary funding
         o State-owned agricultural enterprises were privatized or prepared for privatization.
        In the telecomm area:
         o Legislation was passed that permitted privatization of TT and the establishment of a regulatory
             authority (TA), which was launched.
         o The telecomm market was liberalized, and TT's exclusive right to provide fixed-line service
             was ended.
        In the energy area:
         o A constitutional basis was laid for privatization of the electricity sector
         o An Electricity Market Law was passed, and a fully-functional energy regulatory authority
             established (EMRA). EMRA was also designated as the regulator for natural gas.
         o The electricity generation and transmission company was split into 2 entities.
         o Two city natural gas distribution systems were privatized.
        In enterprise privatization, 4 large SOEs were privatized.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The November 2002 elections and the consequent change of government delayed some reform efforts, as
new Ministers and other officials were brought up to date on the reform program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the first 2 years of the project, the macroeconomic environment was very turbulent with financial
crises in November, 2000, and February, 2001. This hindered project performance, especially in the social
security area, where it caused receipts to fall and deficits to widen.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:




                                                     - 12 -

None.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As noted earlier, a first tranche of US$384.6 million was disbursed upon effectiveness in June, 2000, and a
second tranche of US$375 million was disbursed in April, 2004. The original closing date was September
30, 2001, but as described above closing was delayed until April 30, 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely:

       Ongoing and planned Bank projects (ARIP, PFPSAL III, Energy Liberalization Project) as well as
        an ongoing Fund program increase the likelihood that reforms achieved under ERP will endure, and
        indeed, be expanded.
       The government, currently reaping the benefits and increased revenues in part resulting from fiscal
        structural reforms, is unlikely to backtrack.
       Having expended considerable political capital to implement Social Security reforms (e.g.,
        increased retirement age), the government is unlikely to backtrack, and indeed is now examining
        further reforms.
       The Agricultural Strategy Document--a PFPSAL III Board condition--provides for the
        continuation of the DIS program from 2006 to 2010. Having effected a massive shift in the way
        public funds flow to the agricultural sector--and with strong policy support for the new
        regime--the government would seem highly unlikely to reverse its course.
       The mechanisms (equipment, facilities, staff) to calculate and disburse agricultural price supports
        and subsidies have been liquidated.
       Turkish authorities understand that the potential reintroduction of agricultural subsidies would be
        seen as highly negative by WTO as well as by the EU in the context of Turkey's potential
        accession.
       Given the explosion of demand for wireless service as well as other "new" services, as well as the
        huge fall in prices for many residential and business services, backtracking in the telecomm area
        seems unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has, in effect, already begun. All reforms undertaken under the ERL
have been made part of ongoing government operations. In many cases, reforms started under ERL are
being extended under some of the later operations noted above.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As discussed earlier under Quality at Entry, the ERL was carefully designed and was the culmination of
several years of discussions and analytic work. The Bank team took explicit account of earlier
unsuccessful efforts to support Turkish reform and designed the ERL to reward short-term reform actions
and set the stage for medium-term actions. Complementary policy support projects were undertaken that
amplified efforts under ERL. Lending was satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Despite the perturbations of the financial crises and the change of government, Bank staff maintained a



                                                      - 13 -

constant dialogue with officials on fulfillment of second tranche project conditions. When macroeconomic
circumstances improved and the government resumed progress toward fulfillment of most policy
commitments, staff worked to facilitate that progress. For example, the Bank played a mediation role in
2003-04 between government agencies that could not reach agreement on how to proceed with energy
sector reforms. The Bank established an Expert Panel of recognized international experts to mediate
differences between the Energy Ministry, EMRA, and the Privatization Agency; this produced a positive
result in the "Strategy Paper."

While the ERL was managed from the Resident Mission, experts from headquarters participated in each of
the policy areas. Staff also participated in all of the Fund missions that reviewed compliance with the
macroeconomic program, and the project team worked closely with the Privatization Social Support Project
to mitigate the social impacts of the reforms. Supervision was satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The government participated actively in
project preparation, especially by its involvement in the CEM that was completed in parallel with the
project. Many ERL reforms were begun prior to project inception, for example, passage of the Social
Security Law in 1999.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance in project implementation was overall satisfactory. While macroeconomic
performance was overall satisfactory, the financial crises of November, 2000, and February, 2001, delayed
project achievement. The introduction of the 2003-04 ad-hoc pension increases was inconsistent with the
objectives of the social security system reform. And has been described above, disagreements among key
agencies involved in energy privatization proved to be an obstacle.

Aside from these deficiencies, however, the Borrower implemented politically difficult reforms across all
the other areas. Achievement has been described above, however, it was the strong commitment of the
Borrower, when confronting vested interests in each area, that permitted the reforms to go forward.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory, as explained above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Conditions should be realistic:
        In terms of the prior achievements that are required before a condition can be realized: The
         condition on the launch of pre-qualification tenders for the sale of electricity distribution companies
         did not take adequate account of critical precedent steps necessary for its achievement, including
         the specific definition of what is being sold and the corporatization of the distribution companies.
        In terms of the market: The condition for sale of 20% of TT was not accompanied by the
         transfer of any management control, a situation not in conformance with market expectations.




                                                      - 14 -

Borrower ownership is key to effective reform: Reforms in all of the policy areas encompassed by ERL
were controversial and involved large and difficult constituencies. The areas in which the greatest progress
was achieved--agriculture, privatization, fiscal reform and macroeconomic performance--were areas
where the Bank identified a long-term agenda for the government and then played a support role. A high
Bank profile in the reform process would not have been effective.

An effective public communications strategy could have facilitated reform: Such a strategy could have
helped the government develop greater credibility to deal with interest groups.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following letter was received by the principal counterpart agency. The modifications attached to the letter have
been taken into account in the ICR.




                                                      - 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:




                     - 16 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

1997 CAS policy requirements for the high case

(1) Large up-front fiscal adjustment yielding sustained sizeable primary and operational fiscal surpluses;
(2) adoption of an aggressive disinflation program with a shift to forward indexation of wages and salaries;
(3) robust external financing plan including substantial support from IFIs; (4) strong privatization,
including major state banks and lossmakers, energy and telecommunications; (5) coherent, comprehensive
reforms of public expenditure, tax system, social security, financial sector, and agricultural support
policies; and (6) adoption of regulatory and other institutional frameworks to promote private investment
and operation of infrastructure.



Supporting Analytical Work

Turkey: Economic Reforms, Living Standards and Social Welfare Study, World Bank Grey Cover.
January 2000.
Turkey : Country Economic Memorandum: Structural Reforms for Sustainable Growth, Vol. 1, World
Bank, September, 2000.
Rosanna Polastri, Turkey: Debt Servicing Sensitivity Analysis 1999-2002, World Bank, undated.




                                                    - 17 -

Annex A: Conditionality Matrix
OBJECTIVES                                                                              ACTIONS

A.MACROECONOMIC                                                 PriortoBoardPresentation                                         2ndTranche
SUSTAINABILITY                                                                                                      Measuresinboldarecoreactions
                                                                                                                    priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche
Createconditionsforsustainableand
equitablegrowthwithlowinflation.


1. Lowerinflationto10-12percentby         1999budgetadoptedby                Satisfactoryimplementationofthe1999   Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
2001whilepromotingsustainablegrowth      Parliamentwithaprimarysurplus       macroeconomicframework.                macroeconomicframework for2000
ofoutputandemployment,strengthening      targetfortheconsolidatedcentral                                            andadoptionofasatisfactory
thestructureoftheexternalcapital         government of2.0%ofGNP.                                                    macroeconomicframework for2001.
account,andcorrectingtheweaknesses                                                                                  Themacroeconomicframeworkfor2001
thatunderliemacroeconomicimbalances   2000budgetadoptedbyParliament          Adoptionofamacroeconomic             willbeconsistentwiththeGNPgrowth
intheeconomy.                        withaprimarysurplustargetforthe         frameworkfor2000,includingenactmentof  targetof5-6%andtheend-yearinflation
                                     consolidatedcentralgovernment           the2000budget,whichisconsistentwiththe targetof10-12%.
                                     (excludingearthquake-relatedcosts)of    GNPgrowthtargetof5-5.5%andtheend-
                                     5.4%whichisconsistentwithatargetfor     yearinflationtargetof25%fortheCPI(20%
                                     theconsolidatedpublicsectorof3.7%of     forWPI).
                                     GNP.

2. Underpinfiscaladjustmentthrougha      Taxreformadoptedin1998which:       Satisfactoryimplementationofthetax       Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
combinationofrevenueincreasesand       reducestimelagsbetweentax            reform.                                taxreformincluding:
structuralmeasurestostrengthenthetax  assessmentandcollection;                                                         usebytheGovernmentofthe
systemandimprovepublicexpenditure      introducesincomedeclarationformost                                            authorityunderArticle2.2ofLaw
managementandcontrol.                 taxpayers;                                                                      4444withrespecttoadvancetax
                                       eliminatesdifferentialtaxtreatmentof                                          paymentseffectiveJuly1,2000.This
                                      listedandunlistedcompanies;                                                     measureistargetedtogenerate0.4%of
                                       harmonizesVAToncapitalgoods;                                                  GNPinrevenuesin2000.
                                       allowsannualrevaluationofrealestate
                                      taxliabilitiesinlinewithinflation;and
                                       increasespenaltiesfortaxevasionand
                                      non-compliance.




                                                                - 18 -

OBJECTIVES                                                                          ACTIONS

A.MACROECONOMIC                                               PriortoBoardPresentation                                         2ndTranche
SUSTAINABILITY(continued)                                                                                           Measuresinboldarecoreactions
                                                                                                                    priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche

2.Underpinfiscaladjustmentthrougha    Amajorpackageoffiscalmeasures       Legislationenactedtoconvert             Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
combinationofrevenueincreasesand     adoptedbyParliamenttounderpinthe     petroleumconsumptiontaxestoaunittax      fiscalpackagesfor2000.
structuralmeasurestostrengthenthetax budgettargetsfor1999and2000by        basisindexedtoinflation. Thismeasureis
systemandimprovepublicexpenditure    generatingabout2.0%ofGNPinrevenue.   expectedtogenerateabout0.4%ofGNPin        Adoptionofasatisfactory fiscal
managementandcontrol(continued).     Thepackageincludes:                  2000.                                    package intheframeworkofthe2001
                                       amilitaryservicewaiverscheme;                                              budgetdesignedtoreplacetemporary
                                       atemporary25%surchargeoncellular     Introductionofacrediblepackageof     measureswithpermanentmeasures
                                      phoneuse;                           expendituremeasurestogenerateabout0.8%   andincorporating furtherexpenditure
                                       aone-time5%surchargeonpersonal    ofGNPinsavings,including:                reforms,inaccordancewiththe
                                      andcorporateincomebasedon              eliminate20oftheexisting61           recommendationsofaPublic
                                      declarationsfor1998;                  budgetaryfunds;                        ExpenditureandInstitutionalReview
                                       one-timemotorvehicleandrealestate    introduceforwardindexationofcivil    tobecarriedoutwiththeBank,that
                                      taxesbasedon1999taxpayments;          servicesalariesin2000;                 encompass:
                                       anewtransactiontaxonofficial         imposelimitsonreplacementhiringof        eliminationofatleast25more
                                      documents;and                         80%inthecivilserviceand15%inSEEs          budgetaryfunds;
                                       awindfalltaxof4-19%oninterest       intheTreasury'sportfolio;                  reductioninthenumberofnon-
                                      fromgovernmentsecuritiesissuedbefore   reduce non-investmentpublic             budgetaryfundsasagreedwiththe
                                      Dec.1,1999.                           expenditureincludingexpenditureon         Bank;
                                                                            temporarypersonnelandcutsinother           limitsontheintroductionofnew
                                      Asupplementaryrevenuepackage         currentexpenditure;and                    projectsintothepublicinvestment
                                     adoptedbyGovernmentdecreetogenerate     imposea2%cutinallprimaryspending        program;
                                     about1.1%ofGNPin2000including:         excludingpersonnelandtransferstothe        establishmentofapublicregistry
                                       anincreaseinthestandardVATrate      socialsecurityinstitutions.               ofgovernmentguaranteesand
                                      from15%to17%,andfrom23%to25%                                                    limitsontheissuanceofnew
                                      forconsumerdurables;                 Enactmentoftherevisionofthemethod         guarantees;and
                                       20%increaseintheVATontobacco      ofcomputingtaxableprofitsoncorporate         incorporationofmoreeffective
                                      andalcoholicbeverages;              holdersofgovernmentsecurities(Article279    expenditurecontrolmechanisms.
                                       톋nincreaseinwithholdingtaxeson    oftheTaxProcedureLaw)asstipulatedin
                                       rentalincomeandtheself-employed    the2000budget. Thismeasuresisprojected
                                       from15%to20%;                      togenerate1.1%ofGNPinrevenuesin2000.
                                       anincreaseinwithholdingtaxon
                                      interestincomeandreposby2
                                      percentagepoints;and
                                       톖imitsontheincreaseintaxbrackets
                                       andthespecialexemptionforwageand
                                       salaryearnerstotargetedinflation.




                                                               - 19 -

OBJECTIVES                                                                               ACTIONS

B.SOCIALSECURITY                                                  PriortoBoardPresentation                                             2ndTranche
REFORM                                                                                                                     Measuresinboldarecoreactions
                                                                                                                           priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche
Ensuremedium-termsustainabilityand
improveintergenerationalequityofthe
socialsecuritysystem.

1. Introducestructuralreformstothe      PolicyreformtoPAYGpension              AdoptionbyGOTofanactionplanfor            Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
threepublicsocialinsurancefundswitha   systemadoptedbytheParliamentwhich:      theadministrative/institutionalreformofthe socialsecurityreformprogram
viewtoensuringfinancialsustainability,    Increasestheminimumretirementage    socialsecuritysystemtoimprovecoverage,     encompassing:
increasingcoverageandcompliance,and      forafullpensionto58/60fornew          compliance,administrativeefficiency,and      톓mplementationofthePAYG
improvingqualityofservice.               entrantsand52/56forexisting           transparency--includingclearseparationof     pensionreform.Thereformis
                                         contributorswitha10yeartransition     theaccountsforpensionsandhealth              targetedtogenerate0.5%ofGNPin
                                         period;                               insurance.                                   fiscalsavingsin2000;
                                          increasestheminimumcontribution                                                  톓mplementationofthe
                                         periodto25yearsfornewentrantsfor       AdoptionbyGOTofaplantoreduce               administrativeandinstitutional
                                         BKandES(7000daysforSSK). For          contributionarrearstothesocialsecurity       reformprogram;
                                         existingcontributorstoSSK,the         systemincludingtheeliminationofallpublic     톓mplementationoftheplanto
                                         minimumperiodisincreasedfrom5000      sectorarrearswithinthreeyears.               reduceallcontributionarrears;
                                         to6000dayswitha10yeartransition                                                    톓mplementationofthe
                                         period;                                Unemploymentinsurancescheme                unemploymentinsurancescheme;
                                          reducesthereplacementratefora       introduced.                                  and
                                         basicpensionforSSKandBK;
                                          extendsthereferenceperiodfor
                                         calculatinginitialpensionsuptothefull
                                         workinghistory;
                                          increasestheceilingonpremiumsup
                                         tothreetimestheminimuminsurable
                                         wageandindexesthistotheCPIplus
                                         GDPgrowth;
                                          indexespensionbenefitstotheCPI;
                                          holdstheSYZbenefitconstantin
                                         nominalterms;and
                                          increaseshealthinsurancecontribution
                                         rateforBKfrom10-12%to15%.

                                                                                Submitdraftlegislationauthorizing          톓mplementationofthelegaland
2. Createthelegalandregulatory          Draftlegislationpreparedtosupport
                                                                               supplementaryindividualpensionschemesto      regulatoryframeworktosupport
frameworkforprivatepensionfundsto      theintroductionofsupplementary
                                                                               Parliament.                                  supplementaryindividualpension
diversifythesourcesoflong-termsavings  individualpensionschemes.
                                                                                                                            schemes.
andfacilitate developmentofthecapital
market.




                                                                  - 20 -

OBJECTIVES                                                                                ACTIONS

C.AGRICULTUREREFORM                                             PriortoBoardPresentation                                           2ndTranche
                                                                                                                        Measuresinboldarecoreactions
Promoteagriculturalgrowthandincome                                                                                      priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche
generationbyincreasingtheefficiencyand
equityofthesupportsystemandprivatizing
stateenterprises.

1. Introduceaunifiednationalprogram     Policyworkshopsondirectincome       Adoptionandannouncementofa                Satisfactoryprogressin
ofdirectincomesupporttargetedover      supportprogramheldinlate1998and      strategyforimplementingthedirectincome        implementingthedirectincome
timetopoorerfarmers.                   early1999.                           supportprogramoverthe2000-02period.           supportstrategyincluding:
                                                                                                                         implementationofthepilot
                                                                             Initiationofthedirectincomesupport        program;
                                                                            programonapilotbasisforselectedregions       preparationofthenationalfarmer
                                                                            in2000.                                     registry;and
                                                                                                                         agreementontheschedulefor
                                                                                                                        initialrolloutofthedirectincome
                                                                                                                        supportprogramatthenationallevel
                                                                                                                        forthe2001cropseason. Therollout
                                                                                                                        willbecompletedin2002.

2.Phaseoutpriceandcreditsubsidiesfor    Fertilizersubsidy(perunit)held      Maintainfertilizersubsidyconstantin       Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
agriculture.                           constantinnominaltermssince1997      nominalterms.                                 programtophaseoutpriceand
                                       reducingtheunitsubsidyfrom                                                         creditsubsidiesinagriculture
                                       approximately45%ofthetotalpriceatthe                                               including:
                                       endof1997toapproximately31%by                                                    maintenanceof fertilizersubsidy
                                       August1999.                                                                        constantinnominalterms;and
                                                                                                                         implementationoftheprogramto
                                        Interestratesonsubsidizedcredits    Aprogramforphasingoutagriculture          phaseoutagriculturecredit
                                       fromZiraatBankincreasedby5-15        creditsubsidiesoverthecourseof2000has       subsidies.Thisprogramistargetedto
                                       percentagepointsin1998.              beenintroducedbyGovernmentdecree.The        generate0.6%ofGNPinfiscalsavings
                                                                            programincludes:                            in2000(HalkBankinclusive).
                                                                               Holdingthenominalinterestrateon
                                                                              agriculturalcreditsconstantuntilitisequal
                                                                              tothe3monthrollingaverageofthe12
                                                                              monthT-billrateplus5percentagepoints
                                                                              andthenholdingthisspreadconstant;
                                                                               introducingavariablerateloanoption
                                                                              forfarmers;and
                                                                               providingcashcompensationfromthe
                                                                              budgettoZiraatBankforanysubsidy
                                                                              accruedin2000.




                                                                - 21 -

OBJECTIVES                                                                                 ACTIONS

C.AGRICULTUREREFORM                                              PriortoBoardPresentation                                         2ndTranche
(continued)                                                                                                            Measuresinboldarecoreactions
                                                                                                                       priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche

2.Phaseoutpriceandcreditsubsidiesfor     Increasesinmajorsupportpricesfor   Announceareformprogramtolink             Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
agriculture(continued).                 1999keptinlinewithinflation.        agriculturesupportpricestomarketprices    programtophaseoutpriceandcredit
                                                                            andphaseoutgovernmentsubsidiesfor         subsidies(continued)including:
                                                                            supportprices by2002. Specificmeasures      implementationofthesupport
                                                                            include:                                   pricereformincluding
                                                                               supportpricesforgrainsin2000willbe     announcementofadditional
                                                                              linkedtoappropriateworldreference        measuresfor2001asagreedwiththe
                                                                              pricesandsetatlevelswhichreducethe       Bank. Thisprogramistargetedbythe
                                                                              premiumovertheseworldpricestoatmost      Governmenttogenerate0.3%ofGNP
                                                                              35%withanaccompanying reductionin        infiscalsavingsin2000.
                                                                              graintariffs;
                                                                               TMO'ssalespriceforgrainwillbeno
                                                                              lessthanthelowerof:(a)thepurchase
                                                                              priceofTMOplusstoragecostsincurred
                                                                              uptothedateofsaleincludingimputed
                                                                              interestchargesonstocks,or (b)thetariff-
                                                                              inclusiveimportparitypriceforgrainof
                                                                              equivalentquality;and
                                                                               anauctionfortobaccowillbeintroduced
                                                                              forthe2001seasonandpricesfortobacco
                                                                              notsoldatauctionwillbesetatadiscount
                                                                              belowthelowestauction price.

                                                                             Imposeahardbudgetconstrainton            Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
3.Restructureandinitiateprivatizationof                                     agriculturalSEEs--includingspecific limitsrestructuringprogramforagricultural
stateenterprisesinagriculture.                                              onTreasuryloanguarantees,equity           SEEsincluding:
                                                                            injectionsand budgetarytransfers.           initiateprivatizationproceedings
                                                                                                                       ofagriculturalSEEsasagreedwith
                                                                             Passlegislationtogivecomplete            theBank;
                                                                            autonomytoASCUs,andeliminateall             completeliquidationofallTZDAS
                                                                            preferencesandgovernmentrole intheir       assetsandseparateorreassignall
                                                                            operation.1                                employees;and
                                                                                                                        effectiveautonomyofallASCUs
                                                                                                                       fromthebudgetasagreedwiththe
                                                                                                                       Bank. Thisreformistargetedto
                                                                                                                       generate0.2%ofGNPinfiscalsavings
                                                                                                                       in2000.




1PassageoftheASCUlawisaconditionofeffectivenessoftheloan.



                                                                 - 22 -

OBJECTIVES                                                                                     ACTIONS

D.DEREGULATIONAND                                                  PriortoBoardPresentation                                               2ndTranche
PRIVATIZATION                                                                                                                Measuresinboldarecoreactions
                                                                                                                             priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche

Promoteinvestmentandprivate
participationinenergy,telecommunications
andinfrastructure.
1. Strengthenlegalandregulatory              Asetofconstitutionalamendments        Enactlegislativechangesrequiredto           Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
frameworkforprivateparticipationand     adoptedbytheParliamentwhich:            implementthesetofconstitutional             legislativechanges.
privateinvestment.                         createaconstitutionalbasisfor       amendmentsincluding:
                                          privatizationandallowtheauthoritiesto    amendmentstotheBOTlawtoinclude
                                          determinebylawwhichinvestmentsand       electricitygeneration,transmission,
                                          servicescarriedoutbypublicentitiescan   distributionandtradingprojectswithinthe
                                          becontractedoutortransferredtoprivate   scopeofthelaw;andtosubjectBOT
                                          agents;                                 projectstocommerciallaw;
                                           provideforinternationalarbitration     amendmentstotheDanistaylawto
                                          tosettledisputesarisingfromconcession   limitittoanadvisoryrolewithregardto
                                          contractsandotherlegalagreements        concessioncontracts;and
                                          concerningpublicserviceswithaforeign     newlegislationtoprovidefor
                                          element;and                             internationalarbitrationforconcession
                                           limittheCouncilofState(Danistay)      contractswithaforeignelementandto
                                          toanadvisoryrolewithrespectto           authorizetheCouncilofMinistersto
                                          concessioncontractsandotherlegal        extendtherighttointernationalarbitration
                                          agreementsconcerningpublicservices.     retroactivelytoexistingcontractsonacase
                                                                                  bycasebasis.

2. Promoteefficiency,private             Introduceinternationalex-refinery      Adoptgovernmentdecreewhich                     Satisfactoryimplementationof
participationandcompetitioninthe         pricingforpetroleumproducts.           separateselectricitygeneration,transmission theenergyreformprogramasagreed
energysector.                                                                   andtrading.                                 withtheBankincluding:
                                                                                                                                 enactmentofanelectricity
                                                                                 Adoptacredibletime-boundactionplan              reformlawtoestablishan
                                                                                forensuringthefinancialrecoveryofTEAS.            independentregulatoryagency
                                                                                                                                  withfullauthorityovertariff
                                                                                                                                  policy,furtherliberalizethe
                                                                                                                                  electricitysector,andensurean
                                                                                                                                  adequatecompetitive
                                                                                                                                  environment;
                                                                                                                                implementationofthefinancial
                                                                                                                               recoveryplanforTEASasagreed
                                                                                                                               withtheBank;and
                                                                                                                                adoptionatime-boundplanfor
                                                                                                                               establishingindependentregulation
                                                                                                                               andde-monopolizingthenatural
                                                                                                                               gassector.




                                                                    - 23 -

OBJECTIVES                                                                              ACTIONS

D.DEREGULATIONAND                                           PriortoBoardPresentation                                         2ndTranche
PRIVATIZATION(continued)                                                                                          Measuresinboldarecoreactions
                                                                                                                  priortoreleaseofthe2ndtranche

3.Promoteprivateparticipationand    Draftlegislationapprovedby           Enacttelecommunicationslegislation.    Satisfactoryimplementationofthe
competitionintelecommunications.   Parliamentwhichwould:                                                         telecommunicationsreformprogram
                                      enableTurkTelekomtobeconverted     TransformTurkTelekomintoajoint-       including:
                                     intoajoint-stockcompanysubjecttothe stockcompanywithastructure favorableto     establishmentoftheregulatory
                                     commercialcode;                     competitionandissueanactionplanfor        authority;and
                                      establishanindependentregulatory  carryingouttheconversion.                  implementationoftheactionplan
                                     authorityfortelecommunications;and                                            forcarryingouttheconversionof
                                   enableprivateprovisionofallvalue-                                              TurkTelekomintoajoint-stock
                                     addedandwirelessservices.                                                     company.


4. Accelerateprivatization.         PrivatizationAdministration's        Satisfactoryprogressinimplementing     Satisfactoryprogressin
                                   programfor1999-2000adopted.           thePrivatizationAdministration'sprogram implementingtheprivatization
                                                                         including:                              program,including:
                                                                            initiatingtendersforatleast15         completionofsaleoftwo
                                                                           companies;                              additionalwirelesslicensestoprivate
                                                                            initiatingnegotiationsforatleast10    investors;
                                                                           companies;and                            saleof20%ofTurkTelecomtoa
                                                                            signingcontractsforatleast5           strategicprivateinvestor;
                                                                           companies.                               launchofpre-qualificationtenders
                                                                                                                   forthesaleofelectricitydistribution
                                                                          Launchoftenderstoselltwoadditional      companiesasagreedwiththeBank;
                                                                         wirelesslicensestoprivateinvestors.       and
                                                                                                                    privatizationofatleastthree
                                                                                                                   additionalmajorcompanies
                                                                                                                   (TUPRAS,POAS,PETKIM,THY,
                                                                                                                   ERDEMIR)bythePrivatization
                                                                                                                   Administration.




                                                             - 24 -

Annex B: Macroeconomic Program Goals and Actual Performance
ProgramYear>>>                       2000                   2001                    2002                   2003                   2004
                                                                                                                                     revised
    MacroeconomicVariable   proggoal    actual     proggoal    actual      proggoal    actual     proggoal    actual     proggoal    estimate
CPIInflation,%(end-year)            25.0       39.0        52.5       68.5         35.0       29.7        20.0       18.4        12.0         9.3
GNPGrowth,%                      5.0-5.5       6.3         -3.0        -9.4        3.0        7.9         5.0        5.9         5.0         10.0

PrimaryFiscalBalance,%ofGNP*        2.2        2.3         5.5         5.9         6.5        3.9         6.5        6.3         6.5          6.5
StockofPublicSectorDebt,%of
GNP                                 58.0       58.3        79.0       93.9         81.0       80.0        77.2       70.5        70.3        70.3
CurrentAccountBalance,%of
GNP                                 -1.8       -4.9        -0.6        2.4         -1.2       1.0         -3.2       -2.9        -3.0        -4.9

LevelofExternalDebt,%ofGNP          53.0       59.5        66.0       78.8         74.0       72.4        61.3       61.8        53.2        53.5


*Consistent with IMF definition; includes flow of duty losses of state banks.
Sources: Project PSRs and PFPSAL program documents.




                                                                     - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation.




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation.




                                                  - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/99                     6    Sr. Human Resources Econ.,
                                             Lead Social Protection Specialist,
                                             Principle Economist, Private
                                             Sector Development Spec., Lead
                                             Energy Economist, Economist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/00                   17     Sr. Human Resources Econ.,
                                             Lead Social Protection
                                             Specialist , Principle
                                             Economist, Sr. Financial
                                             Analyst , Operations Officer
                                             (2), Sr. Agriculturalist, Lead
                                             Energy Economist , Lead
                                             Energy Spec., Private Sector
                                             Development Spec., Senior
                                             Economist, Lead
                                             Employment and Training
                                             Specialist, Operations
                                             Officer, Sr. Operations Off.,
                                             Research Analyst, Team
                                             Assistant, Consultant

 Supervision
              06/00                     5    Sr. Economist, Private Sector
                                             Development Spec.,
                                             Economist, Sr. Telecom.
                                             Spec., Sr. Counsel
              09/00                     5    Sr. Economist, Lead Energy
                                             Economist , Senior Infrastructure
                                             Specialist, Sr. Energy Spec.,
                                             Consultant
              12/00                     9    Sr. Economist, Sr. Human
                                             Resources Econ., Lead Social
                                             Protection Specialist , Economist,
                                             Research Analyst, Lead Energy
                                             Economist , Operations Officer,
                                             Sr. Power Engineer, Consultant
              01/01                     3    Sr. Economist, Sr. Telecom.
                                             Spec., Sr. Counsel
              02/01                     5    Sr. Economist, Lead Energy
                                             Economist , Senior Infrastructure
                                             Specialist, Op. Officer, Principal
                                             Investment Officer
              07/01                     3    Sr. Economist, Sr. Telecom.



                                              - 29 -

                                            Spec., Research Analyst
               02/02                   3    Sr. Economist, Lead Social
                                            Protection Specialist, Research
                                            Analyst
               05/02                   3    Sr. Tel. Spec., Sr. Economist,
                                            Research Analyst
               02/03                   5    Sr. Economist, Research Analyst,
                                            Sr. Tel.. Spec., Lead Social
                                            Protection Specialist, Op.
                                            Officer
               06/03                   3    Sr. Economist, Research Analyst,
                                            Sr. Telecom. Spec.
               09/03                   2    Sr. Economist, Sr. Financial
                                            Sector Spec.

 ICR
               09/04                  1     Consultant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                              61
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    90                             302
  Supervision                            100                              372
  ICR                                       5                              17
  Total                                  217                              752




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1) Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Economic Refom Loan - March 20, 2000
2) Mission Aide-Memoires:
   l November 1999
   l February 2000
   l June 2000
   l September 2000
   l December 2000
   l January 2001
   l February 2001
   l July 2001
   l February 2002
   l May 2002
   l February 2003
   l June 2003
   l September 2003
   l September 2004
3) Related Legislation:
   l March 2002 - Law on Public Finance and Debt Mangement
   l December 2003 - Law on Public Financial Management and Control
   l April 2001 - Law on Taxation of Individual Pension Schemes
   l January 2002 - Law on Tobacco
   l March 2001 - Law on Electricity Market
   l May 2001 - Law on Amendments to the Telecommunications Legislation
4) Memorandum of the Recommendation of the President the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Partial Waiver of Two Sub-Conditions for the
Release of the Second Tranche - April 6, 2004




                                                - 33 -

- 34 -

