                             TURKEY      - Economic Reform Loan (ERL)
                                      Release of Second Tranche
                                          (Loan No. 4549 TU)
                                          Partial Compliance
                                   Waiver of Two Sub-Conditions


 1       This memorandum summarizes progress made under the Economic Reform Loan (ERL).
The Bank approved the ERL of US$759.6 million             to the Republic Turkey on May 18, 2000
 (Report No. P-7361-TU of March 20, 2000). The Loan Agreement was declared effective on
June 27, 2000. The disbursement of one percent front-end-fee, US$7.6 million,          took place on
June 27, 2000 as well. The first tranche of US$ 377 million was disbursed on June 30, 2000.
The second tranche is US$375 million. The ERL supported the Government's economic reform
program focusing on five critical        actions:   (i) structural fiscal reforms to underpin fiscal
adjustment, (ii) policy and institutional reforms towards a fair and financially sustainable social
security system,      (iii) rationalization   of agriculture support policies    and privatization of
agricultural SOEs to promote agricultural growth and rural income generation, (iv) structural
reforms    to deregulate the energy and infrastructure          sectors to promote private      sector
participation, and (v) decisive steps to accelerateprivatization activities.

2.       The ERL was prepared in 2000 to support the Government's structural reform program
aiming to underpin macroeconomic stability and create the conditions for sustainable and more
equitable growth. An exchange rate-based disinflation program was launched in a bold attempt to
rid the economy of inflation. The peg was supported by front-loaded fiscal adjustment. Key
structural reforms in public expenditure management, social security, agriculture, infrastructure
and banking were initiated.       In fact, fiscal policy was significantly    tightened in 2000 and
inflation began to fall, dropping to 39 percent by the end of the year. Turkey also carried out
significant structural reforms under the program. These included establishment of an independent
banking authority, reform of the public pension system, passageof legislation in energy market,
establishment of a telecommunications regulator and launch of an ambitious agriculture reform
program. However, these impressive achievements were insufficient to avoid a crisis given the
extent of Turkey's underlying fiscal and financial sector weaknesses built up over decades of
instability and delayed reform.

3        A first bout of financial instability hit Turkey in November 2000. The Government made
an effort to restore the reform momentum after the November 2000 financial turmoil, but the
underlying imbalances proved impossible to resolve quickly, leading to the full blown crisis of
February 2001. A CAS Progress Report was discussed with the Board in July 2001, at which
time the severe need for deeper reform had been made clear and Government's resolve had
firmed. The Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL) operations
were added to the revised CAS to support the most important and urgent of the reforms. These
addressedthe regulatory, resolution, and recapitalization needs of the banking sector; and began
to rectify the weaknesses in fiscal management and public sector governance that had allowed
the mismanagement of government expenditure and public banks to continue for so long. The
Government appropriately focused on banking and public sector reforms starting from mid-2001


                                                    -2-


 and requested an extension of the closing date of the ERL, originally September 31, 2001, until
June 30,2002 to meet the second tranche conditions.

4         Six of the nine conditions for release of the second tranche of the ERL were fully met by
the end of first extension of the loan. These conditions were the (i) macroeconomic framework,
 (ii) fiscal reforms and the fiscal package for 2001, (iii) the direct income support for farmers, (iv)
the program to phase out price and credit subsidies in agriculture, (v) the energy reform program,
 and (vi) the telecommunications program. The three remaining conditions covered social security
reform, the agricultural SOEs restructuring program and privatization. In view of the fact that
most specific second tranche conditions had already complied with, the Bank extended the
closing date of the loan until March 31, 2003.

5         There was limited progress in meeting the second tranehe conditions of the loan during
the second extension. The new Justice and Development Party installed following early elections
in November 2002 was reshuffled in mid-March 2003. Mr. Tayyip Erdogan, the party leader,
took over as Prime Minister. The Government and the Bank engaged in intensive discussions of
the new roadmap for ERL including time-bound steps to meet the outstanding actions required to
release the second tranche of the loan. The closing date of ERL was extended for an interim
period of three months (from March 31, 2003 to June 30, 2003) to allow the proper design of
new roadmap. This was the third extension of the loan. Some progress was made in the core
structural reform areas,but there were additional delays in the institutional part of social security
reform, the agricultural SOEs restructuring program and privatization. The Bank agreed to
extend the closing date of ERL, as the fourth extension, from June 30, 2003 to March 3I, 2004
for the completion of the remaining actions for release of the second tranche of US$375 million.

6         Implementation    of the ERL program has gained momentum           since July 2003.     The
government has fully met eight of the nine conditions for the release of the second tranche. In
terms of specific sub-conditions, the Government attained 28 of the 30 specific conditions for
release of the second tranche. There were partial compliances with the remaining privatization
program sub-conditions, which were affected by the international market and slow action
internally.

7         Of the two sub-conditions that were not fully met, the first one, the sale of 20 percent of
Turk Telekom (TT) to a strategic private investor, has been replaced with the remedial actions
involving:    (i) transfer of full licensing authority to the newly established Telecommunications
Regulatory Authority (TRA), ('iil) revision of the legislation to allow privatization of up to IO0
percent of TT excluding a golden share, and (iii) preparation of a new corporatization and
privatization strategy for the company.      These actions have: (i) promoted the development of the
sector; (ii) enhanced the commercial orientation of TT; and (iii) improved the prospects for the
future privatization of TT.

8         The second condition, the launch of pre-qualification tenders for the sale of electricity
distribution companies, has been replaced with a comprehensive electricity privatization strategy,
adopted by the High Planning Council (Core Cabinet) which: (i) establishes a clear basis for
future implementation of privatization by all agencies concerned; and (ii) defines a time-bound
set of implementation steps specifying the approach and institutional responsibilities to proceed
with market implementation in areasessential to successful privatization.


                                                 -3-


9        The following sections of this memorandum summarize the macroeconomic policies have
been put in place since mid-2003, the overall progress in implementing the reform program
supported by the ERL, and the actions taken by the Government of Turkey to meet specific
conditions for release of the second tranche.


                              I      RECENT    ECONOMIC     DEVELOPMENTS
                                l




 10.     Turkey is now entering a third year of strong recovery from the 2001 financial crisis.
Economic growth reached 5.8 percent in 2003 following 7.5 percent growth in 2002. The major
contributing factor to the favorable growth outcome in 2003, becauseof its weight in the national
accounts, was private consumption growth. However, showing much faster rates of growth, in
the first three quarters for which data are available, was private sector capital formation.     This
augurs well for sustaining growth with capacity utilization           levels reaching historic highs.
Exports continued to play an important role in the recovery. Unemployment has fallen to about
9 percent in late 2003 from a high of 12 percent following the crisis despite the weakness in
construction.   Inflation fell to 18.3 percent in 2003, and the latest data suggest that inflation is
falling towards the important single digit level for the first time since the 1970s.

 11      Strong fiscal performance has been the cornerstone of the economic program.            Fiscal
gains were significant in 2003, and the primary surplus rose from 4 percent of GNP in 2002 to
over 6 percent of GNP in 2003, close to the programmed 6.5 percent target. Nevertheless, the
overall fiscal deficit remained considerable at 10.8 percent of GNP. Although the 2004 budget
passed in December was consistent with the 6.5 percent primary surplus target, a sizeable fiscal
gap quickly emerged. The government announced above inflation increases in minimum wages
and it also cut contribution rates for social security to reduce the additional costs to employers. In
addition, the government increased pensions by 20 percent, well above the inflation target. These
initiatives, together with revenue shortfalls relative to the Budget, created a financing gap of
close to 1.7 percent of GNP. The Government introduced a fiscal package in March to close the
fiscal gap. This package has two main components: a supplementary budget and revenue
measures. The supplementary budget passed in March cuts discretionary expenditures by 13
percent across all ministries. The government also introduced measures to increase tax revenues
by adjusting excises of petroleum, alcohol, tobacco, and natural gas. While the Government has
demonstrated a willingness to undertake action to meet the fiscal target, good public expenditure
management and delivery of services to citizens will require less reliance on ad hoc, short-term
measures and a focus on sustainable fiscal adjustment.          A high priority here is the need for
additional social security reform.

12       Monetary policy followed a policy of implicit     inflation targeting, with the Central Bank
occasionally intervening in the foreign exchange market to dampen what was deemed to be
excessive fluctuation in the exchange rate. The decline in inflation, which was aided by the
strength of the dollar, led to a commensurate decline in interest rates from a nominal 60 percent
in the first quarter of 2003, to about 25 percent early in 2004.         Turkey's debt sustainability
indicators have improved considerably. The fall in nominal interest and borrowing rates and the
strength of the Turkish Lira were important reasons for the decline in the public debt to GNP
ratio from 79.2 percent in 2002 to 71 percent in 2003, down from 94 percent in the aftermath of
the 2001 crisis.


                                                                     -4-



igure   1: Macroeconomic       and    Financial   Indicators


                         (a) Annual   CPI Inflation                                     (b) Real Effective     Exchange     Rate
                                                                                                                                    ___-~
   80.0   I                                                                                                                                    -I
   70.0
                                                                            140.0
   60.0

E8 50.0                                                                  8Y
                                                                          " 120.0
k40.0                                                                    2T-
                                                                            100.0




                        (c) Nominal   T-bill rate                                         (cl) Istanbul   Stock   Exchange


            12 month nominal interest rate on T-bills




                                                                             6000-i                      ISE National 100 index - 1986 = 1 TL,
                                                                                                               based on closing values
                                                                             3000-I



                       (e) Unemployment      Rate                                                  (9 GNP growth
    14.0                ~--~~~~,--,~~-~__~__~_I__Y_I.-,Ily

    12.0     SIS-reported unemploym                                                             entage change over th
                                                                                                r of the previous year.
    10.0

$j    8.0
$2
g     6.0

      4.0

      2.0


            oo- oo- Ol- Ol- Ol- Ol- 02- 02- 02- 02- 03- 03- 03- 03-
            Q3 Q4 Ql    Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql       Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql       Q2 Q3 Q4




                       (g) Real Private   Credit                                    (h) Capacity   Utilization   in Manufacturing



                                                                             83

                                                                             80

                                                                         2   77
                                                                         E
                                                                         g   74

                                                                             71

                                                                             68

                                                                             65 ;


                                                 -5-


 13.    On the external front, despite appreciation of the Tur ish Lira, rising productivity and
declining labor costs helped sustain external competitiveness and export growth. Tourism
receipts recovered strongly in the second half of 2003 helping to deliver a current account
balance better than expected. Imports also grew rapidly, with oil, increased imports of machinery
and equipment, and rising demand for imported consumption goods being major contributors.
The current account deficit increased to 3 percent of GNP in 2003. Continued market confidence
has spurred an improvement in capital inflows, although greenfield investment has remained
low. These inflows easily financed the current account deficit and allowed the sharp increase in
international foreign exchange reserves to US$33 billion, equivalent to 5 months of goods and
services imports.

 14     Prospects. Under stable domestic and international conditions, Turkey could repeat or
improve on last year's macroeconomic performance in 2004. Growth should again meet the 5
percent target. Inflation is already running below projections. Carry over from last year's strong
increase in industrial output and a more normal harvest in agriculture sector this year should
deliver the growth target from the production side. On the demand side, confidence indicators are
strengthening and lower interest rates and easier credit are providing            stimulus to private
investment and consumption.        Despite firm domestic demand, there are strong prospects of
meeting the inflation target of 12 percent, which would outperform targets for the third year in
succession. The government already introduced corrective fiscal measures to attain the primary
surplus target of 6.5 percent of GNP in 2004. The current account deficit is expected to remain at
3 percent of GNP in 2004. The combination of sharply declining inflation              and recovery of
domestic demand are creating tensions for monetary policy. Interest rates are still quite high in
real terms. Although there is still room to cut interest rates further, the potential need to moderate
domestic demand growth and to limit further widening of the current account deficit suggestthat
this should be done carefully.

15      Regarding external financing      needs, access to international        financing   has eased
   l


considerably following the recent rating upgrades, with sharp declines in spreads. In the first six
weeks of 2004, Turkey issued US$2.75 billion         equivalent in international bonds, a US$1.5
billion in 30 year bonds, with a yield of 8.23 percent, and a EUR 1 billion with yield of 6.6
percent. These two issues accounted for half of Turkey's 2004 borrowing program from the
international financial markets.    Stronger FDI would be a function of improved political and
macroeconomic stability, and the establishment of greater trust in the rule of law. International
reserves, which increased significantly last year, also give some degrees of freedom in meeting
the external financing needs. Despite improving access to domestic and international markets,
Turkey's debt rollover needs remain sizeable, about US$l I- 12 billion per month in 2004, and its
debt dynamics remain vulnerable. These require to maintain macroeconomic policies firmly on
track and to move decisively on a comprehensive program of structural reforms to safeguard and
advance the recent achievements.          Structural  reforms priorities     include   restructuring /
p~vatization of state banks; continued modernization of fiscal management, further reform of the
social security system and institutional strengthening of social safety net. These reforms will be
supported under the PFPSAL 3 and PPSAL loans currently under preparation under the Turkey
CAS.


                                                  -6-

                          II       THE   STRUCTURA~A~JU~TME~TPR~~RAM
                              l




 16     The actions supported by the ERL were intended to (i) support the implementation of a
macroeconomic policy framework to tame inflation          and restore growth; (ii) underpin fiscal
 adjustment through structural fiscal reforms, (iii) improve the efficiency, equity and quality of
 social security system, (iv) promote agricultural growth and rural income generation with the
rationalization of agriculture support policies and privatization of agricultural SOEs; (v) promote
private participation with the deregulation of the energy and telecommunications sector; and (vi)
accelerate privatization with decisive steps.

 17     As previously mentioned, overall implementation of the ERL program has been strong -
the Government fully met eight of the nine main conditions for the release of the second tranche.
In terms of specific sub-conditions, the Government attained 28 of the 30 specific sub-
conditions. There was partial compliance with the remaining privatization           conditions. As
discussed earlier (see para. 7), the first condition, the sale of 20 percent of Turk Telekom to a
strategic private investor, has been replaced with remedial actions which have: (i) promoted the
development of the sector; (ii) enhancedthe commercial orientation of TT; and (iii) improved the
prospects for the future privatization of TT. A new strategy for the privatization of TT approved
by the Council of Ministers in November 2003 and is now being implemented. The second sub-
condition, the launch of pre-qualification tenders for the electricity distribution companies, has
been replaced with a comprehensive electricity privatization        strategy, adopted by the High
Planning Council on March          17, 2004, which has (i) established a clear basis for future
implementation     of privatization by all agencies concerned; (ii) defined a time-bound set of
implementation steps specifying the approach and institutional responsibilities to proceed with
market implementation in areasessential to successful privatization. This action goes beyond the
original sub-condition.

18      The following table presents and overview of the general progress of the ERL in terms of
main program areasto be monitored for release of the second tranche.

                               Table 1: Progress in Loan Conditions
                      Main Program Areas                                 Summary of Progress
 Satisfactory implementation of macroeconomic framework                          achieved
 Structural fiscal measures and fiscal program                                  achieved
 Social security reform                                                         achieved
 Agriculture reform                                                             achieved
     1. Direct income support                                                   achieved
     2. Phasing out of price and credit subsidies                               achieved
     3. Agricultural enterprise restructuring program                           achieved
 Deregulation and Privatization                                                 achieved
     1. Energy sector reform                                                    achieved
     2. Telecommunications
     3   Privatization program                                             partiallv achieved
       l




19.      Overall, the program supported by the ERL has been largely achieved with many
important   accomplishments,      including the satisfactory implementation      of macroeconomic
framework, structural fiscal reforms, social security reform and commitment by the Government
to address the projected deficits in the social security system. Agricultural   sector reforms have
made decent progress to promote agricultural growth and rural income. The Direct Income


                                                 -7-


Support program is proceeding in a satisfactory manner. Price and credit subsidies have been
phased out. There has been also considerable progress in restructuring of the agricultural sales
cooperative unions (ASCUs) and restructuring and privatization of agricultural SOEs. There has
been good progress in the implementation of energy sector reforms under the ERL. The ERL has
also made a highly significant contribution to the development of the telecommunications sector.
The privatization program is now moving forward after major delays in 2001-02. A majority
stake has now been sold in four major companies, POAS (petroleum distribution), ERDEMIR
(steel), TEKEL (alcoholic beverages)and TUPRAS (refineries), in the privatization program.

20       CAS Linkage. The ERL is part of a broader package of Bank financing in support of the
Government's economic reform efforts. The Bank's overall lending program for the FY 2004-06
period is described in detail in the new CAS, which was presented to Board in November 2003.
The CAS includes a high case lending program of US$4.5 billion            and a low case of US$1.3
billion. The progress in meeting the conditions for release of the ERL second tranche indicates
that the CAS high-case triggers are on track. In particular, the progress on the ERL program
confirms that the triggers related to a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and sustained
implementation    of regulatory reforms, privatization     and liberalization   of the energy and
telecommunications sectors and agricultural reform program, are being met. With regard to the
other structural and social triggers, progress is continuing in the preparation of PFPSAL3 and
PPSAL, which will support the Government's reform program in several key sectors (see
para.15).


                 III 0    CONDITIONSFORTHERELEASEOFTHESECONDTRANCHE

21.     As the conditions for the release of the second tranche, the Loan Agreement requires that:

                    the Borrower has made satisfactory progress in carrying out the Program as
                    set forth in the Government's Letter(s) of Development Policy to the Bank.
                    This progress is evidenced by the progress in all substantive areas of the
                    Program as well as by a review of the specific actions described in Schedule 3
                    of the Loan Agreement.

           ii)      the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory.       The
                    existence of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework is evidenced by
                    the recent economic, fiscal, monetary and external and real aspects of the
                    economy that were described in Part I of this memorandum. This framework
                    is supported by an active IMF program that remains on track.

           iii)     the actions, described in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement, have been taken
                    and are in substance satisfactory to the Bank. That these actions have been
                    completed is evidenced by the fact that 28 of the 30 sub-conditions listed in
                    Schedule 3 have been fully met, and that the remaining two sub-conditions
                    have been met partially, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The compliance
                    with each of these conditions is discussed in the following paragraphs.


                                                   -8-




         1      S~tisf~~to~   implementation     of the rn~~roe~o~ornic framework      for  ~~le~d~r
         ykar 2000 and adoption of a s~tisfu~to~ m~~roeco~orni~ framework for calender year
         2001.

 22.     This condition has been met.     Macroeconomic outcomes for 2002 and 2003 generally
 surpassedthe indicators set under the economic program, although fiscal performance fell short
of the primary surplus target. Economic growth reached 5.8 percent in 2003 following              7.5
percent growth in 2002. Unemployment which had remained at record levels in 2002 started to
fall in 2003. Inflation fell to 18.3 percent in 2003, and the latest data suggest that inflation is
falling towards the single digit level for the first time since the 1970s. Strong fiscal performance
has been the corner stone of the program. Fiscal gains were significant in 2003, and the primary
 surplus rose from 4.0 percent of GNP in 2002 over 6 percent of GNP in 2003, close to the
program target of 6.5 percent. The second stage of direct tax reform was passedin January 2004 .
and the Government has continued to reduce the overstaffing in state owned enterprises. Balance
of payments outcomes were also favorable as the current account deficits of I percent of GNP in
2002 and 3 percent of GNP in 2003 were financed with little difficulty. Renewed capital inflows
to the private sector contributed to a stronger-than-expected capital accounts balance which
allowed a build up of gross international foreign exchange reserves to almost US$33 billion by
the end-2003. There has been an IMF program under implementation since early 2000. The
seventh review mission of Turkey's program arrangement with the IMF was completed on
March 12, 2004 and discussion by the IMF Board is expected very shortly. On balance
macroeconomic policies under the current program appear to be adequate, even while there
remain major risks.

         2      Adoption of a s~tisf~~to~ fiscal package in the framework        of the 2001 budget
         d'esigned to replace temporary meastires with permanent measures and incorporating
        further   expenditure reforms, in accordance with the re~omrne~d~tio~s of a Public
         Expenditure and I~stit~tio~~l   Review to be carried out with the Bank, that encompass:

         0a     elimination ofat least 25 more budgetary funds;
         (b)    reduction in the ~~rnber of ~o~-b~dget~~ funds as agreed with the Bank;
         0c      limits on the introduction ofnew projects into the public investment program;
         0      establishment of a public registry of government guarantees and limits on the
                issuance of new g~~r~~tees; and
         0e     i~corpora~`o~ of more effective expenditure control mechanisms.

23.      This condition has been met. The Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR)
was distributed to the Board in August 2001. On the basis of the PEIR, the Government has
prepared a Strategic Framework for Public Expenditure Reform, implementation of which is
being supported by the PFPSAL programmatic operations.

24       (a and b) eliminative of at least 25 more b~dgeta~~~d~      and reduction in the ~~rnbe~of
~~~-b~d~eta~ fimds as agreed with the Bank. As of March 2001, 46 budgetary funds and 6
EBFs had been closed, exceeding the ERL target. In June 2001, the Parliament adopted
legislation to close 15 more budgetary funds and two EBFs.          As a result, all budgetary funds,
with the exception of the Support Price Stabilization Fund linked to the reform of the agriculture


                                                  -9-



sales cooperative unions (ASCUs) under the ARIP, and all but five EBFs were eliminated in the
2002 budget. The Government has committed not to create new budgetary or extra-budgetary
funds. Recognizing the need to terminate the system of earmarked expenditures linked to the
closed funds and incorporate their revenues into the general revenue base, the Government has
prepared legislation which is expected to be enacted by May 2004. For the remaining EBFs
(excluding the SDIF for which measures are being taken under the financial sector reform
program), the Government has undertaken the following          actions which came into effect with
enactment of the Public Financial Management and Control (PFMC) law in December 2003: (i)
submit their budgets to Parliament for approval, (ii) audit their accounts annually, and (iii) report
their operations monthly on a consolidated basis with the central government.

25       (c) limits on the introduction of new projects into the public investment program. The
Government has taken steps to limit the introduction of new projects into the public investment
program (PIP). The rationalization of the PIP in the 2002 budget resulted in a reduction in the
average project completion time by 32 percent, from 12.5 years in 2001 to 8.5 years in 2002. An
action plan for further rationalization of the PIP in 2003-04 prepared by the State Planning
Organization was adopted by the High Planning Council in October 2002.              An assessment
prepared by the SPO in May 2003 confirmed the reduction in the average project completion
time in the 2002 PIP and indicated a further reduction in the average completion time to an
estimated 7.6 years in the 2003 PIP, along with a continued reduction in the number of projects.

26.      (d) establishment of a public     registry of government guarantees and limits on the
issuance of new guarantees. The Law on Public Finance and Debt Management was adopted in
March 2002. Two implementing circulars on guarantees and non-guaranteed borrowing were
published. The Government has instituted a public register of all Treasury guarantees and set
limits on the issuance of new guarantees in the 2001-04 budgets. A review of the government
guarantee portfolio was completed by May 2003, providing a preliminary valuation In order to
support the capacity-building efforts of the new middle office of Treasury, a US$320,000 IDF
grant was approved in November 2003. The multi-year capacity building program will help
improve the transparency of fiscal management by assisting the Turkish Treasury to adopt best
international practices and technical tools in public liability management, including financial and
fiscal risk management.

27       (e) incorporation of more effective expenditure control mechanisms. The PFMC Law
establishes the legal framework for harmonizing and modernizing budgetary practices across all
of general government. It is reducing fragmentation and providing for a more comprehensive
presentation of the budget. The law is also allowing for future decentralization of financial
control to spending agencies. Finally, it is extending the external audit mandate of the Turkish
Courts of Account (TCA) to all general government agencies and allowing for external audit of
TCA itself. In addition, field installation of the computerized accounting system for the Ministry
of Finance (called say20OOi),initially developed under the Public Financial Management Project,
has been completed and the system went live in January 2002.


B        Social Security Reform:
  l




         S~tisf~~t~~ implementation of the social se~~ri~ reform program e~~omp~ssi~g:

         0a      implementation of the PAYG pension reform.
         09      implementation of the administrative and i~stit~~~~~l reform program;


                                                 - lo-



          0c     implemc~t~tio~   of the ~1~~ to reduce all contribution arrears;
          0      implementation of the unemployment i~s~~~~ce scheme; and
          0e    implementation      of   the   legal  and   ~eg~l~to~     f~~rnewo~k   to  s~ppo~
                s~pplerne~t~~ individual pension schemes.

28*      This condition has been met.     (a) Implementation of the pay-as-you-go pension reform,
The I999 pension reform law was fully implemented with minimum retirement ages instituted
for all three pension systems and benefit changes for workers and self-employed. These changes
resulted in a sharp drop in the social security deficit, a reduction of 1.2 percent of GNP, more
than had been stipulated by the Loan. The law also sought to make minimum and maximum
levels of insurable earnings automatically indexed to consumer price increases as well as
pensions after retirement. However, several problems have emerged. The fiscal crisis in 2001
lowered contribution revenues through increase in unemployment and declines in real wages.
Administrative    reforms were delayed which contributed to poor compliance and hence poor
revenue collection. A gap has arisen between minimum insurable earnings and minimum wage,
which is not subject to automatic indexation. In 2003 and 2004, Parliament approved social
payments to all pensioners and increased pensions that were unrelated to auto#maticindexation
prescribed in the law, leading again to higher expenses.Taken together, these have led a growing
deficit in the social security system. Further action to addressthis issue is being taken under the
proposed PPSAL operation.

29        (b) implementation of the administrative and institutional reform program. After initial
legislation passed in 2000 was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, legislation authorizing
administrative reform and enforcement of collection of contribution arrears was passed in July
2003. The legislation paves the way for administrative reform in two of the social security
institutions, including the hiring of inspectors, and the unemployment agency.        The Turkish
Government has even more ambitious plans to unify the social security agencies and plans to
present legislation in the second half of calendar year 2004.

30       (c) implementation of the plan to reduce all contribution arrears.    Noncompliance and
the buildup of contribution      arrears have been a perennial problem for the social security
institutions, further exacerbated by the slowdown in employment arising from the fiscal crisis.
The July 2003 legislation included authorization to reduce contribution arrears, including the
hiring of additional inspectors, and the use of private lawyers to aid in the collection of these
arrears.Under the SSK debt workout plan, the authorities have restructured TL 3.2 quadrillion in
arrears out of a total of TL 4 quadrillion outstanding. The debt workout plan of Bag-Kur (the
social security institution for the self-employed) has been less successful with TL 1.7 quadrillion
restructured out of TL 14 quadrillion total arrears. However, about 85 percent of Bag-Kur
arrears are five years and older, and will need to be written off.

31       (d) implementation    of the unemployment insurance scheme.           The unemployment
insurance agency began to collect unemployment contributions in June 2000 and paid out its first
benefits in March 2002. Large fund reserves have been accumulated in the scheme suggesting
the need for parametric and administrative review.     However, until the agency's establishment
law was formally approved, as it was in July 2003, no progress could be made in this direction.
The Government is now reviewing the parameters and administration and reforms will be
undertaken together with those for the other social security institutions.


                                               - ll-



32.     (e) implementation of the legal and regulator       f~arnew~~k to support s~pple~~e~~ta~
individual pension schemes. The legislation to support individual pension schemes was enacted
in April 2001, and became effective in October 2001. The related tax legislation was enacted in
June 2001. Implementing      regulations for the individual   pension schemes were published in
February 2002. First contributions were collected in November 2003. There are currently 11
pension funds authorized to collect contributions in Turkey, with a total of 46,672 contributors
by end-Feb 2004.


Ca      Agriculture   Reform

        1.      Satisfactory progress in implementing       the direct income     support strategy
        including:

         0a     implementation of the pilot program;
         (b)    preparation of the national farmer registry; and
         0c     agreement on the schedule for initial      rollout  of the direct income support
        program at the national level for the 2001 crop season.

33.     This condition has been met. (a and c) implementation of the pilot program and adoption
of a schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, for the initial     rollout of the direct income support
program at the national level for the 2001 crop season. Implementation of the Direct Income
Support (DIS) Program is proceeding in a satisfactory manner, notwithstanding budget pressures
and some start up issues, and is being supported by the Agriculture Reform Implementation
Project (ARIP) approved in July 2001. The DIS pilots were completed prior to ARIP, with their
results incorporated into the final design of the current DIS Program. The Government decree
establishing the first annual national DIS program was published in April 2001, and the DIS
circular detailing procedures for implementing the first 2001 Program was published in June
2001.

34.     During the first registration season in summer-fall 2001, 2.18 million       farmers were
registered for the DIS Program, representing almost 55 percent of Turkev's roughlv 4.1 million
                                     A       v                             J      u   J
farmers.   Payments    under    the
2001 Program were initiated in
November     2001 and extended
through June 2002, by which
time    all  of   the    registered
beneficiaries were paid in full.
In successive years, the share of
farming    households    registered
has risen to over 80 percent of
the total,  covering   almost   70
percent of Turkey's agricultural
cropland (see Table 2).

35.     Coverage of farming households exceeds that of the total cultivated agricultural area
mainly   because the maximum       area which can qualify for DIS payments is 50 hectares.
However, coverage is not expected in the next two years to exceed 85 percent of farming
households, as there is a large number for which it is not possible to demonstrate legal title to the


                                                - 12-



land farmed in the same name as the current head of the farming household. This is a reflection
of the fact that transmission of legal title across generations of househol       members has not
always taken place smoothly. Currently, the DIS Program gives an added incentive to inheritors
of farmland to regularize the formal title to the land they cultivate.

36      The timing of DIS payments has exhibited a pattern under which roughly 500-800 trillion
Ti   of the given year's Program payments are made in the last quarter of the given calendar
year's program, immediately following the summer-fall registration and verification period. The
bulk of payments are then made in the first quarter of the next calendar year. Final payments are
then made by the end of the second quarter.

37      (b) preparation of the national farmer registry. The National Registry of Farmers (NRF)
is the system which houses the farmer beneficiary information necessary to calculate and justify
the annual payments. This system has been expanded over time to include increasingly detailed
information on the structure of each farming household's agricultural and livestock operations.
As such, it is now being used by the Government to inform its decisions on agricultural and rural
development policy in the various agro-climatic and socio-economically          differentiated rural
provinces. An on-going challenge being addressedby the ARIP is the linking of the NRF to the
country's property registration and cadastral system.         This will   improve the accuracy of
calculation of DIS payments per farming household, as well as strengthen the base for a future
geographic information system for land and natural resourcesuse planning.

        2       Satisfa~to~   implementation    of the program      to phase out price and credit
        subsidies in agriculture including:

         0a     maintenance of fertilizer subsidy constant in ~orni~al terms; and
         (b)    implementation of the program to phase out agriculture credit s~bs~ies.
         0c     implementa~o~     of the support price      reform    including a~~o~~cerne~t of
                additional measuresfor 2001 as agreed with the Bank.

38.     This condition has been met. (a and b) maintenance of fertilizer        subsidy constant in
nominal terms and implementation of the program to phase out agricultural          credit subsidies.
Under the reform of agriculture support prices, input, output price, and credit subsidies have
been reduced in 2000-02 by over 90 percent. By the end of 2002, the reform program reduced
the fiscal outlays on agricultural subsidies by about US$5.5 billion. This represents a savings of
over 2.7 percent of GNP. Over half of the subsidy cuts is accounted by the US$3.1 billion in
reduction in the coverage of losses for state financed crop purchases. The elimination of the
credit subsidies and debt write-offs generated another US$1.4 billion in fiscal savings. Fiscal
transfers to ASCUs, which had reached US$lbillion         per year, were also reduced by US$SOO
million, covered in detail in the next section. The other area of subsidy reduction was fertilizer
subsidies, which declined by US$300 million.       Altogether, 70 percent of the subsidy cuts were
directed at lowering agricultural commodity prices and was primarily achieved by imposing hard
budget constraints on state marketing and processing enterprises as well as the quasi-state
ASCUs. The remaining 30 percent cut was aimed at reducing agricultural input subsidies,
notably credit and fertilizer.

39.      (c) implementation of the support price reform including announcement of additional
measures for 2001 as agreed with the Bank. The changes to agricultural output subsidization
have taken the form of greater market deregulation through reduction and phasing out state-set


                                                - 13-

in April 2001. It phased out price supports for sugar beets but introduced quotas on refined sugar.
In the sugar sector, sugar beet prices have been set on an annual basis under agreementsreached
directly between the operators of sugar factories and growers. Processed sugar sale prices are
now freely set by the operators of the sugar factories. Refined sugar quotas have been set for a
five year period by the Sugar Agency, which was established in 2001, since 2002.

40      In the tobacco sector, an auction system for tobacco was established by the Tobacco law      1
    l


enacted in January 2002. State set prices were reduced by a third over 1999-2001, and were
abolished starting with the 2002 harvest. Over the same period tobacco purchases from farmers
fell by 30 percent. Under the Tobacco Law, there are provisions for purchasing tobacco produced
by growers basedonly on written contracts or open auction. The price of tobacco produced under
contract between the producers of tobacco products and the growers is set by mutual agreement.
Tobacco produced by growers other than under written contracts is sold on open auction method.
In the grains sector, the Turkish Grain Board (TMO)           reduced its volume of intervention
purchases by over 45 percent during the 1999-2002 period to about 2.4 million tons. In 2002,
these purchases were reduced further to about 800,000 tons and TM0             ceased announcing
minimum     purchases. Wheat import tariffs were reduced substantially, though they remain at
about 45 percent. In the hazelnut market, the intervention purchases and announced support
prices made by the parastatal Fiskobirlik       declined by about 25 percent and 40 percent,
respectively over the 1999-2001 period. They declined further in 2002 and were discontinued
entirely in 2003.

        3       Satisfactory implementation of the restructuring program for agricultural SEES
        including:

         0a     ini~tion  of privatization proceedings of agricultural    SEES as agreed with the
                Bank;
         PO     complete liquidation     of all TZDAS      assets and separate or reassign all
                employees; and
         0c     effective autonomy of ali agriculture sales cooperative unions (ASCUs) porn
                the budget as agreed with the Bank.

41      This condition has been met. (a) initiate privatization proceedings of agricultural SEEs
as'agreed with the Bank. The Government transferred all state-owned sugar factories (SEKER)
under the scope of the privatization program in December 2000 and the state tobacco company
(TEKEL)    was included in the Privatization Administration's    portfolio by a Privatization High
Council decision dated February 2001. A comprehensive privatization plan for TEKEL            was
approved in March 2003. The firm was tendered, but this tender was not finalized owing to the
low bids offered, as deemed by the Government. TEKEL is to be re-tendered during the course
of 2004. Concerning the sugar company (SEKER), the plan for its privatization was approved by
the Privatization High Council (PHC) in June 2003.          The Privatization Ad~nistration   and
SEISER have jointly determined the portfolio groups/companies which will be tendered for sale
under the privatization program and identified the factories to be liquidated.  The timetable for
including  these portfolio/companies     in the privatization program has been established.      It
foresees that those put into the privatization program will be tendered in May-2004, with the
tender to be completed by December 31,2004.

42      (b) complete liquidation of all TZDAS assets and separation or reassignment of          all
employees. With regard to the liquidation of TZDAS (agricultural machinery), a tender for the


                                                - 14-



sale of its Adapazari complex was approved by the PHC in May 2003. The remaining assetsof
TZDAS were merged into Sumer Holding A.S. in February 2003 and the company was legally
abolished. With the completion of the merger, all responsibilities regarding TZDAS employees
have been transferred to Stimer Holding,       which is under the privatization      of program of
Privatization Administration.

43       (c) effective autonomy of all agricultural  sales cooperative unions (ASCUs) from the
budget as agreed with the Bank. Considerable progress has been made towards transforming the
ASCUs from parastatal organizations, controlled by the Ministry        of Industry and Trade and
supported financially by the Treasury, into financially autonomous and sustainable cooperatives
that can compete with private traders while operating for the benefit of the farmers who own
them. Institutional arrangements for implementation of the ASCUs/ASCs component have been
fully in place since June 2002 and all are operating in an effective manner. No new DFIF credits
have been provided to the ASCUs from the budget, with funds made available limited to those
available from the DFIF Revolving Fund only.         Five ASCUs-- Marmarabirlik,        Trakyabirlik,
Taris Olive, Taris Fig and Gulbirlik-have   completed their restructuring plans and been declared
eligible for forgiveness of their pre-May 2000 debts to DFIF.     Annual fiscal savings associated
with imposition     of hard budget constraints on ASCUs have reached roughly $800 million,
equivalent to 0.4 percent of GNP.

D        Deregulation and Privatization
  l




         Energy Reform:

         1      Satisfactory implementation   of the energy reform program as agreed with the
           l

         Bank including:

          0a    enactment of an electricity reform law to establish an independent regulatory
                agency with full   authority over tariff policy, further   liberalize the electricity
                sector, and ensure an adequate competitive environment;
          (b)    implementation  of the ~~a~cial    recovery plan for TEAS, as agreed with the
                Bank; and
          0c    adoption a time-bound plan for establishing independent regulation and de-
                monopolizing the natural gas sector.

45       This condition has been met. (a) enactment of an electricity reform law to establish an
independent regulatory agency with full      authority over tarif    policy, further   liberalize the
electricity sector and ensure an adequate competitive environment. The electricity market law
(EML) establishing independent regulatory agency (EMRA) and competitive market model was
enacted in March 2001. The EML also establishes a clear framework for the restructuring of state
electricity  companies into separate entities operating within     a competitive     market trading
arrangement. Furthermore, the EIVIL also establishes a process for the privatization of these
entities. The EMRA,       independent regulatory agency, is now fully        functional,  and it has
completed the issuance of key tariff, licensing and market codes/regulations. The Eh!IRA has
also completed the licensing of all firms in the electricity      sector. Furthermore, it has also
successfully facilitated the direct access of large consumers in electricity to purchase directly
from sources of their choice-thereby   taking an important step in the liberalization of electricity
sector.


                                                 - 15 -



46       Implementation of the EML and liberalization of the electricity sector are proceeding
quite well given the complexity of the reforms and restructuring steps. A detailed design of the
competitive market mechanism has been prepared. The market mechanism is based on bilateral
physical contracts with mandatory balancing. This mechanism is defined in a Power Market
Implementation     Manual initiated in 2001 prepared by an interagency group comprising all
relevant agencies, led by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR). Based on the
market design in the Power Implementation Manual: (i) a new transmission tariff regime was
designed and implemented in 2002; (ii) the transitional balancing and settlement code (BSC) that
will be the basis for initial market operation has been prepared; and (iii) industry restructuring is
underway to achieve a stable competitive market and privatize assets.

47       (b) implementation of thefinancial recovery plan for TEAS, as agreed with the Bank. The
former generation and transmission company (TEAS) has been restructured into a separate
transmission company (TEIAS) and generation company (EUAS). Both TEIAS and EUAS have
been completely       separated financially  and operationally.  Operational boundaries between
EUIAS,     TEDAS     (distribution company) and TEIAS      were agreed in 2002 based on criteria
suitable for market operation and asset registers are being finalized on this basis. The state
owned electricity trading company was also established in 2001 to hold state contract liabilities
for BOT and BOO projects - it currently has a wholesale tariff that is regulated by EMRA. The
TEDAS      has begun the process of restructuring its operations along regional lines. All the
electricity sector firms, specifically the successorsof TEAS are financially stable.

48       (c) adoption of a time-bound plan for   establishing independent regulator   a~thori~ and
de~monopoli&zg the natural gas sector. The natural gas market law (NGML)            was enacted in
May 2001, which establishes EMRA as the regulator for the gas market as well. The NGML
defines an industry structure, the procedures for getting new private sector firms into local gas
distribution business, and a gas sector liberalization process. Gas market development is being
advanced with a focus on the creation of demand-specifically       by inviting the private sector to
bid for the rights to develop new gas distribution systems in cities. Around 14 cities were
tendered by the end of February 2004, of which 7 have been licensed. In addition, two city gas
distribution systems that were owned and operated by BOTAS           (gas transmission monopoly)
have been privatized -thereby creating new players in the sector. The BOTAS has commenced
the separation of its accounts into import, transmission and wholesale functions. Consultations
on the gas transmission code are on-going with the private sector. The code is expected to be
issued in the Official Gazette within the next six months.

49       Telecommunications Reform
   l




        2.      Su~sfacto~       implementation   of   the telecomm~~ic~tio~s    reform    program
         i~cl~di~g~

          0a    establishment of the ~eg~~to~ ~~tho~i~; and
          (b)   implementation     of the scoop plan for    c~~~i~g  out the co~~e~sio~ of Turk
          Telekom into ajoist-stock company.


                                                 - lb-


50      This condition has been met.     (a) e~tabli~hm~~t ofthe ~eg~l~to~ ~~tho~i~. The Board of
the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA) was appointed in March 2000. The decree
establishing the TRA was issued in August 2000. A summary medium-term development plan
for the TRA was provided to the Bank in November 2000.             Additional amendments to the
telecommunications law were enacted in May 2001 (Law 4673)             which transferred licensing
authority to the TRA.    TRA has been active in the issuance of licenses and authorizations. It is
also undertaking studies for additional licensing of services. TRA has also issued regulations
thereby providing a greater degree of regulatory certainty to existing players and potential new
entrants. It has issued numerous licenses. To date more than 90 Internet Service Provider (ISP),
20 VSAT,     6 GMPCS and 3 Digital Satellite Platforms authorizations or licenses have been
issued. TRA has drafted and is drafting licenses and respective fees for additional services,
including those services that were formerly the exclusive rights of Turk Telekom (TT). The
issuance of new licenses is facilitating new investment, new services and wider customer choice
in the sector. These operations should enhance the competitiveness of the Turkish economy and
represent considerable progress.

51      TRA has issued 12 regulations which promote private sector development by establishing
the business environment.       These regulations     include: _ Communique  On Principles     and
Procedures Regarding Co-location and Facility Sharing; Ordinance Regarding the Principles and
Procedures for GSM Telephone Subscription; National Frequency Allocation            Table; Tariff
Ordinance; Price Cap Communique            and Ordinance on Access and Interconnection. TT's
exclusive rights for fixed-line     services and infrastructure expired at the end of 2003 as a
consequence of Law 4502 of January 2000. By these amendments Turkey advanced by one year
its commitment to the World Trade Organization (WTO) regarding the termination of exclusive
rights for the provision of fixed-line telecommunications services. In 2004, a substantial increase
in the number of licensees is anticipated as new entrants begin to enter the market which was
previously the exclusive domain of TT.

52      (b) implementation of the action plan for carrying out the conversion of Turk Telekom
into a joint-stock company. Turk Telekom (TT) was converted into a joint-stock company by
Law 4502. A High Planning Council decision issued in October 2000 authorized TT to establish
an independent joint-stock    company for mobile operations. The authorization agreement for
mobile operations was signed in January 2001, and the agreement for fixed-line services was
signed in February 2001. In December 2001 TT management signed a contract with major
international business consultants on to assist them in developing its strategy to commercialize
its operations and business. This         involved   a `strengths and weaknesses' analysis, the
development of strategic options and assistance with the implementation of the agreed strategic
options. Since that time TT has continued to employ the services of major international business
consultants to assist in the development of its commercialization strategy. The Board of TT was
actively involved in the formulation of the appropriate strategy. A new corporate plan was
adopted by the TT Board of Directors in June 2002.


                                                 - 17-



53       The proximity of the liberalization of the fixed-line market has focused the attention of
the management of TT regarding the commercialization              of the company.    Faced with the
imminent challenge from new entrants, the management of TT has improved its customer care
facilities  and information   technology capabilities in order to become a customer focused
company, as identified by the original consultancy. To advance these goals, TT has been
recruiting staff from the private sector. At the same time staff numbers have been reduced
through the early retirement program introduced by the government in late 2001. Additionally,
TT is aiming to improve its data services in order to promote Internet usage and to become the
major supplier to Internet Service Providers (ISP) in a liberalized environment.

54.      Privatization Program

         3.      Satisfacto~ progress in implementing the privatization program, including;

          0a     completion of sale of two additional wireless licenses to private investors;
          (b)    sale of 20% of Turk Telecom to a strategic private investor;
          (c)    launch   of pre-q~ali~catio~   tenders for     the sale of electricity dist~`b~tio~
                 companies as agreed with the Bank; and
          (d)   privatization of at least three addi~o~al major companies by the Privatization
                Admi~is~atio~    of the Borrower.

55       This condition has been partially met. (a) completion of sale of two additional wireless to
private investors. A GSM 1800 license was successfully sold in October 2000 for US$2.5 billion
to a consortium (Aria) led by Is Bank and Telecom Italia. The tender for a second GSM 1800
license was also held, but there were no bidders given the minimum price of US$2.5 billion.     The
proceeds from sale of the first GSM 1800 license greatly exceeded the revenue target set for the
two sales combined.

56       TT was issued with the 4thmobile license in 2000 following the successful tender of the
3'; mobile license for US$2.5 billion. However, shortly after the roll out of its network and the
start of operations the sector was hit by the financial volatility of the economy and the downturn
in the global telecommunications sector. The two new entrants faced substantial difficulties in
capturing market share against the established mobile market players (with             a combined
subscriber base of over 15 million)   who were responding to market conditions in an aggressive
manner. Furthermore, the Government of Turkey became involved in international arbitration
with the 3rd mobile license operator over a claim for more than US$ 2 billion compensation
concerning the roaming issue. TT's mobile operations (Aycell)           had been identified by the
international business consultants as a major drain on TT's resources in the prevailing market
conditions and a potential obstacle to the privatization of the joint stock company. However, in
mid 2003 Aycell       and Aria the 3rd mobile license entered merger talks. TT again hired
international   business consultants to assist in the discussion. Any merger would require
appropriate legal instruments which were supplied by Parliament by Law 4971 (August 2003)
and Law 5071 (January 2004). The merger was completed in February 2004 with the private
sector holding 60 percent of the new entity and TT 40 percent. The combined operations are now
in a stronger position to challenge and compete with the two larger players (TURKCELL            and
TELSIM).


                                                - 18-



57      (b) sale of 20 percent of Turk Telekom to a st~~t~gi~ private             investor. [Waiver
Retwisted]. The effort to open the capital of Turk Telekom to private pa~i~ipation suffered a
major setback when the tender of a 20 percent stake in Turk Telekom failed to attract interest
from strategic investors and closed without bids in September 2000. A second tender for a 33.5
percent stake with stronger management rights closed in May 2001 without a bid. Two main
factors contributed to these unsuccessful attempts. First, the uncertainty regarding the degree of
management rights to be granted to the strategic investor and second the global downturn of the
telecommunications sector. It had been the intention of the Government to negotiate with the
strategic investor on the exact extent of management rights to be granted. However, since there
were no bids the issue was never fully addressed.A third and smaller contributing factor was the
absenceof a clear line of responsibility for ensuring the successof the transaction.

58      It should be noted that between 2001 when Matav of Hungary (in which Deutsche
Telekom is the strategic investor) acquired 51 percent of Macedonia Telekom for US$340
million and February 2004 when at the second attempt, the Bulgarian incumbent, BTC, was sold
to financial investors for a sum considerably lower than offered at the first attempt, there were no
successful telecommunications privatizations in Europe and Central Asia.

59      Following   the unsuccessful attempts, the Bank agreed with the Government on an
alternative action plan involving: (i) transfer of full licensing authority to the newly established
Telecommunications      Regulatory Authority    (TRA),    (ii) revision of the legislation to allow
privatization of up to 100 percent of TT excluding a golden share, which is designed to ensure
that the Government continues to have voice in company decision affecting national interests-
the Bank's view is that the golden share, as currently structured, is unlikely to impede the
privatization of TT, and (iii) preparation of a new corporatization and privatization strategy for
the company.      The first two elements of this plan were implemented through legislative
amendments in mid-2001 (Law 4673) which also reduced the period of TT's exclusive rights for
fixed-line services and infrastructure to the end of 2003. The transfer of full licensing authority
to TRA produced a rapid expansion in the number of license and authorization holders in the
liberalized  sub-sectors of the market, thereby promoting          the development of the sector,
encouraging private investment and providing greater choice to customers. The shortening of the
period of TT's exclusivity    had the effect of focusing the attention of TT on the imminent
challenge from new entrants are caused it to become more commercial and customer focused.
The corporatization plan was adopted by the TT Board in June 2002. As a consequence of the
action undertaken by TT (as discussed above), it has become a more viable and attractive
company.

60      A new action plan for the privatization of TT was agreed with the Government in the
summer of 2003. One item called for the appointment of a senior official                with overall
responsibility  to co-ordinate the privatization     process. The Prime Minister      appointed the
Privatization Administration President as coordinator for the TT privatization in July 2003. By
December 2003 audited accounts for TT were produced for the first time since 20
accounts are a pre-requisite of a privatization transaction. A new valuation of TT has been made
and agreed and the market has been tested by two `road shows' (one international and one


                                                 - 1%



domestic) in September 2003. This market testing found considerable domestic interest in the TT
transaction. The requirement for the purchase of TT by a strategic investor in the previous
attempts at privatization had not allowed this domestic interest to express itself and effectively
limited the number of potential buyers to a small number of essentially European operators.

61      The new privatization plan was adopted by a Council of Ministers decree (2003/~403) on
Ndvember 13, 2003. The plan still allows for the participation of a strategic investor in the
transaction but does not require the participation of a strategic investor. Consequently, the new
privatization plan is more flexible that its predecessors.The new privatization plan based on the
Council of Ministers decree dated November 13, 2003 aims to divest at least 51 percent of TT
through a single block sale. The deadline for bidding announcement has been determined as end-
May 2004. The purchasers of the block can be any combination of interests in a consortia or a
single buyer. The block sale will be followed a public offering, The percent of the sharesand the
timing of public offering will be determined by a separateCouncil of Ministers decision. A new
government decree will be issued to announce the value of TT before the final bid date for the
block sale. The new privatization plan is very clear regarding the management rights of the
successful bidder (full management control), less restrictive regarding the nature of the potential
buyers and more flexible in general. Consequently, the prospects for the future privatization of
TT have been improved.

62*.    (c) launch of pre-qualification  tendersfor the sale of electricity distribution companies as
agreed with the Bank. [Waiver Requested]. The Government's reform commitment to reform
and privatize the electricity distribution     companies and later the generation companies has
remained strong but steps to meet the ERL condition regarding the launch of pre-qualification
tenders for the electricity distribution companies have been delayed. There are two main reasons
for the delay. First, disagreements had arisen among the key agencies involved                in the
privatization  process. As a result, important market implementation         decisions related to the
privatization remained outstanding, for example, how to implement the regime of cost-reflective
regional tariffs and manage liabilities associated with BOT and BOO contracts. Second, the PA
has delayed hiring transactions advisors to assist in the privatization process owing to rigidities
in the privatization law that make it difficult to complete necessarypre-privatization tasks before
assetsare taken under PA's umbrella.

63      In order to move forward with the privatization         of the sector, the Bank and the
Government had agreed on the adoption of           a comprehensive electricity sector privatization
strategy which would: (i) be officially   approved by the highest appropriate authority, either the
Council of Ministers or the High Planning Council, thereby establishing a clear basis for future
implementation for all agencies concerned; (ii) establish a time-bound set of implementation
steps specifying    the approach and institutional      responsibilities   to proceed with    market
implementation in areas essential to successful privatization; (iii) assign clear responsibility for
central coordination of the implementation plan to a specific institution.


                                                  - 20 -


64        The Government has showed its Gommitment to the reforms by having an Electricity
Reform Strategy adopted by the High Planning Council, which functions as the core cabinet, on
March 17, 2004. This Strategy will be a critical input to achieving successful privatization in the
electricity  sector in Turkey      and represents the first     comprehensive approach to energy
privatization agreed across the government since the ERL program was initiated. The launch of
privatization tenders is planned to commence in March 2005. The main elements of the Strategy
include: (i) the comprehensive restructuring of the distribution and generation sectors to identify
distinct successor distribution entities and portfolio generation groups from the existing state-
owned TEDAS (distribution company) and EUAS (generation company) that will be prepared
for privatization;   (ii) a clearly defined series of preparatory steps to establish the baseline
accounting and financial information for each distribution entity to be formed for privatization.
This will include the preparation of loss reduction targets, quality of service standards, load
profiles, and the transitional contract arrangements with the generation firms. These activities are
essential inputs to the preparation of the privatization tenders; and (iii) market implementation
activities, including the definition of the detailed rules for the operations of the balancing market
and adequate systems to manage the trading and settlement. The balancing market will begin
trial operations before the end of 2004, and these results will allow the transitional contracts to
be refined     and finalized   before "cash-settlement"     operations are implemented       prior to
privatization. A track-record of successful operations will be critical to mitigating investor risk
perceptions of the new trading arrangements. Reaction of the market to the strategy has been
favorable, reflecting the view that this approach represents a transparent and achievable roadmap
with a proper sequencing of regulatory and privatization actions hitherto fore missing .

65       (d) privatization  of at least three additional    major companies by the Privatization
A~mi~ist~atio~ of the Borrower.     The privatization program is now moving forward after major
delays in 2001-02.       A majority stake has now been sold in two major companies, POAS
(petroleum distribution) and ERDEMIR         (steel), as part of   the privatization program. A 51
percent sharein POAS was sold in July 2000, a further 16.5 percent was sold through a domestic
and international public offering in March 2002, and the remaining state share of 25.8 percent
was sold in July 2002. The merger of ERDEMIR            with other state-owned company, ISDEMIR
(steel) was completed in February 2002 and action to reduce the state's stake in the merged
company to below 50 percent was completed in            July 2002. The alcoholic beverages unit of
TEKEL was sold to local consortium for US$292 million in late 2003. A block sale tender for
the entire 65.8 percent stake in TUPRAS (refineries) was completed in February 2004 with
proceeds of US$I.3 billion.      With these sales, the Government completed privatization of four
major companies.


