Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4549 TU
Loan Agreement
(Economic Reform Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 27, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4549 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
March 10, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Page  2
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank 
shall have the right to allocate and apply the 
amount 
so received in any manner and for such purposes under the Loan Agreement 
as the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan  Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan”;  
(g)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08; and 
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
Page  3
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
 (a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“TZDAª” means Türkiye Zirai Donatim A.ª of the Borrower;
(c)
“TEAª” means Türkiye Elektrik Uretim ve Iletim A.ª. of the 
Borrower; and
(d)
“Türk Telekom A.ª” means the telecommunications company of 
the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to seven hundred fifty nine million six hundred thousand Dollars (
$759,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any 
time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to 
the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account 
shall have reached the equivalent of $384,600,000, unless the Bank shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(B)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Page  4
Borrower is satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
and
(C)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken.
If, after said exchange of views, the progress achieved by the Borrower 
in respect of sub-paragraphs (A), (B), and (C) above is not acceptable to 
the Bank, the Bank may given notice to the Borrower to that effect and, 
if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken 
steps acceptable to the Bank, in respect of said sub-paragraphs (A), (B), 
and (C) above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from 
and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding 
the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; 
Page  5
as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
Page  6
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the law on 
agriculture sales cooperative unions (ASCUs), satisfactory to the Bank, 
shall have been enacted.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MALIYE
821-42285
(312) 
212-8550
Hazine, Ankara
(MLYE-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and 
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Recep Onal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. D. Wolfensohn
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112              -
Alcoholic beverages
121              -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122              -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525              -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
Page  8
718           718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971              -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, 
or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)**
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2005
through April 15, 2015
37,980,000
Page  9
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(C) of this Agreement
A.
Macroeconomic Sustainability
1.
Satisfactory implementation of the macroeconomic framework for 
calendar year 2000 and adoption of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework 
for calendar year 2001.
2.
Adoption of a satisfactory fiscal package in the framework of the 
budget for calendar year 2001 designed to replace temporary measures with 
permanent measures and incorporating expenditure reforms, in accordance 
with the recommendations of a public expenditure and institutional review 
to be carried out with the Bank, that encompass:
(a)
elimination of at least 25 budgetary funds;
(b)
reduction in the number of non-budgetary funds as agreed 
with the Bank;
(c)
limits on the introduction of new projects into the public 
investment program; 
(d)
establishment of a public registry of government guarantees 
and limits on the issuance of new guarantees; and 
(e)
incorporation of more effective expenditure control 
mechanisms.
B.
Social Security Reform
Satisfactory implementation of the social security reform program 
encompassing:
(a) 
implementation of the pay-as-you-go pension reform;
(b) 
implementation of the administrative and institutional 
reform program;
(c) 
implementation of the plan to reduce all contribution 
arrears;
(d) 
implementation of the unemployment insurance scheme; and 
(e) 
implementation of the legal and regulatory framework to 
support supplementary individual pension schemes. 
C.
Agriculture Reform
Page  10
1.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the direct income support 
strategy including: 
(a) 
implementation of the pilot program;
(b)
preparation of the national farmer registry; and 
(c)
adoption of a schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
initial rollout of the direct income support program at the national 
level for the 2001 crop season.
2.
Satisfactory implementation of the program to phase out price and 
credit subsidies in agriculture, including:
(a) 
maintenance of the fertilizer subsidy constant in nominal 
terms;
(b)
 implementation of the program to phase out agriculture 
credit subsidies; and 
(c) 
implementation of the support price reform including 
announcement of additional measures for 2001, as agreed with the Bank.
3.
Satisfactory implementation of the agricultural enterprise 
restructuring program including: 
(a) 
initiation of privatization proceedings of agricultural 
state economic enterprises as agreed with the Bank;
(b) 
complete liquidation of all 
TZDAª assets and separation or 
reassignment of all employees; and
(c) 
effective autonomy of all agriculture sales cooperative 
unions (ASCUs) from the budget as agreed with the Bank.
D.
Deregulation and Privatization
1.
Satisfactory implementation of the energy reform program as agreed 
with the Bank including: 
(a) 
enactment of an electricity reform law to establish an 
independent regulatory agency with full authority over tariff policy, 
further liberalize the electricity sector and ensure an adequate 
competitive environment;
(b) 
implementation of the financial recovery plan for TEAS, as 
agreed with the Bank; and 
(c) 
adoption of a time-bound plan for establishing an 
independent regulatory authority and de-monopolizing the natural gas 
sector.
2.
Satisfactory implementation of the telecommunications reform 
program, including:
(a) 
establishment of the regulatory authority; and 
(b) 
implementation of the action plan for carrying out the 
conversion of Turk Telekom into a joint-stock company.
3.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the privatization program 
including:
(a)
completion of sale of two additional wireless licenses to 
private investors;
(b) 
sale of  20% of Turk Telekom to a strategic private 
Page  11
investor;
(c)
launch of pre-qualification tenders for the sale of 
electricity distribution companies as agreed with the Bank; and 
(d) 
privatization of at least three additional major companies 
by the Privatization Administration of the Borrower.
For the purposes of this Schedule 3, the term “privatization” means 
that: (i) a contract for the sale of the enterprise has been entered into 
with private owners; (ii) the purchaser has made the down-payment 
required under the contract for sale; and (iii) as a result of the 
contract for sale, majority ownership of the enterprise will be held by 
private owners.
