cPR. I?ca <7
REPORT NO. 6393-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
January 14, 1987
Appraised on Behalf of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development
by the World Bank
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without the authorization of the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD).



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Birr 1 - US$0.483
US$1 - Birr 2.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (ton)      =  2,204.6 pounds (lb)
- 10 quintal (qu)
1 Quintal (qu)          =  100 kilograms (kg)
1 Kilogram              -  2.2 pounds
1 Kilometer (km)        =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 Sq. Kilometer (sq.km) -  100 ha - 0.39 sq. miles
1 Hectare (ha)          =  2.47 acres
CALENDAR
Fiscal Year         : July 7 - July 6,
Agricultural Year  : August through July
Calendar Year      : September 11 through
September 10



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADD       -     Agricultural Development Department of MOA
AED       -     Agricultural Extension Department of MOA
AFDB      -     African Development Bank
AHFDD     -     Animal Husbandry and Feed Development
Department of MOA
AIDB      -     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO     -     Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC       -     Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CBE       -     Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CFSCDD    -     Community Forest and Soil Conservation Development
Department of MOA
CPADD     -     Cooperative Promotion and Agricultural Development
Department of MOA
DA        -     Development Agent
DC        -     Development Center
ESC       -     Ethiopian Seeds Corporation
EWWCA     -     Ethiopian Water Works Construction Authority
FAO       -     Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FFW       -     Food-for-Work
GOSE      -     Government of Socialist Ethiopia
HQ        -     Headquarters
IAR       -     Institute of Agricultural Research
IDA       -     International Development Association
IDD       -     Irrigation Development Department of MOA
IFAD      -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILCA      -     International Livestock Center for Africa
MOA       -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MPP       -     Minimum Package Project
NCCP      -     National Committee for Central Planning
NWRC      -     National Water Resources Commission
PA        -     Peasant Association
PADEP     -     Peasant Agricultual Development Program
PCR       -     Project Completion Report
PPD       -     Planning and Programming Department of MOA
PC        -     Producer Cooperative
RWT       -     Rural Women Team
SC        -     Service Cooperative
SIDA      -     Swedish International Development Agency
SMS       -     Subject Matter Specialist
SWCD      -     Soil and Water Conservation Department
TA        -     Technical Assistance
T&V       -     Training and Visit
UNDP      -     United Nations Development Fund
WFF       -     World Food Program
WHO       -     World Health Organization
WRDA      -     Water Resources Development Authority



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Program Summary  ...................................  i-l
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ........         ........    ............    1
A.  Background and Recent Sectoral Performance  ..... ...*           1
B.  Natural Resources            2.............. ......*......       2
C.  Land Tenure and Farmer Organization          ....................  3
D.  4gricultural Agencies and Services  ......0.............,        4
E.  Government Agricultural Development Policies ...........         7
F.  The Irrigation Subsector                  ,                      8
G.  The Soil and Water Conservation Subsector ... *.........*0      11
H.  IFAD and Bank-Group Assistance  ......      ..................  12
II.  THE PROGRAM AREA                 e                                  15
III. THE PROGRAM  *..*..,..***.....................*....**.......    18
A.  Rationale and Program Formulation           .....................    18
Bo  Objectives .......... *..***.*.    .........................    18
C.  Detailed Features  .... ..........     ............ ...........    19
1.  Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram ..................       19
2.  Conservation and 4gricultural Support Subprogram ...    21
3.  Monitoring and Evaluation ......      ....................  23
D.  Costs and Financing                   ......                    23
Bo  Procurement  ............................                       25
Fe  Disbursement  ......0        ..............  ..............    27
G.  Accounts and Audit  .....*...     .....................        29
IV.  PROGRAM IMPLEIMENTATION  ......00000..........  .  e....... .......    30
A.  Organization and Coordination  ..........................   30
B. Implementation of the Small-Scale Irrigation
Subprogram  ...... ..... .. ...... .... ... ... ... 31
C. Implementation of the Conservation and Agricultural
Support Subprogram                                            34
D.  Annual Work Programs                                            36
E.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation                            37
F.  Mid-Term Review  *...................* .................        37
G.  Status of Program Preparation                                   38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Mr. U. KUffner (IDA); Messrs. H. Johnson, T. Jackson, H. Von Oppenfeld, D.
Poate, K. Sengupta and S. Silbiger (Consultants), who visited the program
vea In Ma-une -1986.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES  ..............  39
A.  Agricultural Production  *********..... .                    39
B.  Marketing and Prices  ..........000000.o.o.ooOoOooe.eoo   39
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ........................   41
A.  Program Benefits  ..................*.,....**.*..      41
B, Environmental Impact  ....................... ...........   42
C.  Economic Evaluation  ...*................................   42
D.  Program Risks and Sensitivity Analysis  .................   43
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .... .....*..........*.   45
ANNEXES
I.       Tables:  Costs, Economic and Agricultural Data  ........    47-70
II.      Annual Work Program ...7...*o*O*o.e.o.Oooo...o...ooeOo   11-72
III.     Small-Scale Irrigation ............................... *    73-82
IV (A).  Conservation Based 4gronomic Trials in Hararghe ...***.   83-87
(B).  Soil Conservation  @0*0@*00**00.0.......                    88-91
V.       Agricultural Extension          ............................  92-105
VI (A).  Agricultural Credit for Small-Scale Irrigation  ........  106-111
(B). Checklist for Details to be Included in Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with AIDB        ......................  112-116
VII.     IFAD Special Program for Sub-Saharan African Countries
Affected by Drought and Desertification ..............  117-118
VIII.    List of Documents in Program File                          119-120
IX.      Organizational Charts and Implementation Schedule  ...   121-124
X.       Implementation Volume:  Table of COntents                  125
MAP - IBRD Map No. 20028



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY P1OGRAM
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:              Government of Ethiopia
Amount:                IFAD Loan SDR 9.3 million (US0l1.O million
equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IFAD terms
Cofinancing:           IDA Credit SDR 5.9 million
(US$7.0 million equivalent)
OPEC SDR 3.4 million (US$4.0 million)
WFP SDR 0.8 million (US$1.0 million)
Program Description:  The Program would address priorities established by
Government for the agricultural sector and focus on
investments mandated by IFAD's Special Program for
Sub-Saharan low income, food deficit countries
suffering from drought and desertification. The
project would consist of (i) small-scale irrigation
schemes up to 200 ha each in drought affected areas
of Arsi, Bale, Northern Sidamo and Hararghe regions,
and (ii) conservation and agricultural support in
Hararghe region. The small-scale irrigation
subproject would include (a) strengthening of
concerned national and zonal departments, (b)
strengthening of agricultural support services, and
(e) provision of irrigation scheme construction
funds. Conservation ana agricultural support
subproject would include (a) strengthening of
concerned national departments, (b) conservation
based agricultural trials, (c) the strengthening of
agricultural extension in the Hararghe highlands, (d)
bund stabilization, and (e) support for rural women
focussing on the introduction of vegetable gardens
and improving nutrition. Monitoring and evaluation
would also be supported withW. MOA.
Benefits and Risks:   The main benefits in the Program area would be:  (a)
increase in the production of cereals, pulses, and
vegetables; (b) prevention of further soil
deterioration and improvement of productivitv. The
main risk may be delays in implementation due to
inadequate institutional strength and experience,
particularly during the early stages of the Program.
The Program includes provisions for an expeditious
start, strong institution building and preparation of
annual work programs thereby minimizing the risk.
Although import parity pricing for cereals would
provide added incentives, the Program is not
significantly affected by the present price level.



- li -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million '/=
A.   Small-Scale Irrigation                                           -
1.   National Support                        0.7         2.1        2.8
2.   Zonal Support                           0.9         0.9        1.8
3.   Agricultural Support Service            1.0         1.0        2.0
4.   Scheme Construction                     5.9         3.3        9.2
Subtotal                                8.5         7.4       15.9
B.   Conservation and Agricultural Support
1.   National Conservation Support           0.2         1.0        1.2
2.   Conservation Based Agro Trials          0.8         0.3        1.1
3.   Bund Stabilization                      0.3         0.5        0.8
4.   Extension                               1.8         2.5        4.3
5.   Rural Women Support                     0.2         0.6        0.8
Subtotal                                3.4        4.8         8.2
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation                     0.5        0.6         1.1
Total Base Cost                                   12.4       12.8        25.2
Physical Contingencies                             1.0        0.7         1.6
Price Contingencies                               4.7        _2.1         6.9
Total Costs                                       18.1       15.6        33.7
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
…US---- US$ million --
IFAD Loan                                    3.8         7.2       11.0
IFAD Loan 131-ET                             0.3         0.7        1.0
IDA                                          2.1         4.9        7.0
OPEC                                         1.2         2.8        4.0
WFP                                          1.0         -          1.0
Government                                   6.4         -          6.4
Beneficiaries                                3.3         -          3.3
_______________                                   18.1       15.6        33.7
1/ Apparent inconsistencies due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements from IFAD Loan with Estimated
Disbursements from IDA/OPEC Credits in Brackets
FY        87         88        89         90         91        92         93
-       …       ----- (US$ Million)…------
Annual 0.2 (0.1) 1.5 (1.3) 1.9 (1.9) 1.9 (1.6) 2.0 (2.0) 1.2 (1.5) 2.3 ( 2.6)
Cumu-
lative 0.2 (0.1) 1.7 (1.4) 3.5 (3.3) 5.5 (4.9) 7.5 (6.9) 8.7 (8.4)11.0 (11.0)
Economic Rate of Return:
A.   Small-Scale Irrigation Subproject:  19X
B.   Extension Component:  minimum 15% (indicative)
MAP: IBRD No. 20028



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
I. THE AG'RICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background and Recent Sectoral Performance
1.01      With a per capita GNP of about US$110, Ethiopia is one of the
world's poorest countries. Absolute poverty characterizes life for the
majority of Ethiopia's predominantly rural population. agriculture is the
dominant sector of the economy accounting for about 45% of GDP, 85% of
export revenue and provides livelihood for 85% of its people. Some 7
million predominantly subsistence farm families with an average holaing of
about 1.5 ha cultivate about 90% of the presently cropped land and produce
around 95% of agricultural output, including most food crops (cereals,
pulses, oilseeds), coffee, and virtually all livestock. Cotton and sugar
are grown primarily on state farms.
1.02      GDP growth has averaged about 2.5% annually during the last
decade. During this period, agriculture grew by a little over 1% (value
added at constant prices), significantly less than the annual population
increase of nearly 3%. Agriculture's share of GDP has shown a downward
trend from around 49% in 1976-77 to 45% in 1982-83. During the last six
years grain production has declined sharply and as shown in Table 1.1.
All key indicators and indices show recent sharply negative trends.
Table 1.1
Agricultural Sector - Key Indicators and Indices - 1979/80-1984/85
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
GDP Growth (x)           5.5       3.0       1.1      5.1      (2.4)    (6.8)
Growth in
Agriculture (% pa)    4.8        2.4      (1.3)     4.7      (8.8)   (16.0)
Major Crop Production   100         87       84        104      85         96
Area of major crops
Harvested              100        94       93       101       95         85
Principal Agric.
Exports (Value)        100        87       81        83       95         81
Principal Agric.
Imports (Value)        100       101       112      113       136       144
Grain Imports
(5-.cluding food aid)  100        96       132      115       264      714
Total Population
Estimated              100       103       106      109       112       115
Domestically Produced
Grain - kg 1/          179      153       143      170       135       119
Equivalent
Per Capita - Index        100       85        80        95       75        66
1/   After allowing for seed and post harvest losses; excludes grain
imports, food aid and livestock products; includes an allowance for
tubers, vegetables and ensete.



-2-
1.03      Over the five years ending 1984, Ethiopia Imported around 285,000
tons of food grains annually. In 1985 food imports and food aid were
around 1.5 million tons and are expected to be over 1 million tons in
FY86. The increase in food Imports reflects the unsatisfactory performance
of the food production sector compounded by increasing demarnd from a rising
population.
B. Natural Resources
1.04      Virtually all crop production and over 70% of livestock
production come from the highlands which form a 50 million ha plateau
(about 40% of total land area) at an altitude generally over 1,500 m, and
supports almost 90% of the country's population. The rest of Ethionia
consists of hot, dry lowlands populated by nomadic pastoralists who
practice little crop production.
1.05      Highland topography varies from quite large, flat or gently
undulating areas to steep ranges and deeply incised river valleys. Soils,
mostly of volcanic origin, vary from red loans in hilly regions to heavy
black clays in valleys and flat lands. Erosion is evident in all but the
flattest parts of the highlands, and has reached serious proportions in
many areas especially northern Shewa, Welo, Tigray and Hararghe Regions.
With the assistance of the World Food Programme (WFP), the Government of
Socialist Ethiopia (GOSE) is implementing impressive community schemes in
an effort to reduce soil erosion. With the exception of high acidity in
some of the highest areas and impeded drainage on clays, there are few soil
related constraints to crop production. Crops on most soils respond to
nitrogenous fertilizers and on lighter colored soils also to phosphates.
The great bulk of the arable soils have good potential for agricultural
production.
1.06      The annual rainfall in the highlands varies from 500 mm in the
north spread over about two months, to over 2,000 mm in the southwest
spread over 10 months with the high potential highland areas averaging 800-
1,000 mm annually spread over six to eight months. The heavier and better
distributed rains of the south and southwest, combined with deep loamy
soils, enable tree crops to be grown (especially coffee). November to
March is generally the driest season with cool nights, while July-August
are the wettest months in most areas. Lack of rain during the dry season
rather than temperatures constrains year-round crop production.
Crops
1.07      Crops account for about two-thirds of the gross value of
agricultural production. About 12.4 million ha is estimated to be under
cultivation of which some 5.8 million are under annual crops, and 3.1
million ha is under fallow each year, the balance being perennial crops
such es ensete and coffee. Field crops comprise principally cereals (86%),
pulses (12%) and oil crops (2%). Estimated harvested areas, production and
yields (1979/80-1983/84) are summarized below:



Average Field 4orop Harvested Area, Production and Yields
(1979/80-1-83/84)
Crop Type           Area             Production               Yield
('000 ha)           ('000 tons)           (tons/ha)
Cereals             4,822                5,925                 1.2
Pulses                789                  871                 1.1
Oilseeds              231                   99                 0.4
1.08      About one quarter of the sown area is in Shewa and two-thirda
occurs in five regions 2/--Arsi, Gojam, Gonder, Shewa and Welega. The
regions of Arsi, Shewa and Gojam dominate annual crop and livestock
production. Tcgether they account for around 32% of the rural population,
over 45% of crop production and 37% of total livestock units. In these
areas arable land is intensively utilized, but in some of the eastern and
southern regions, expansion of the cultivated area is possible. The main
cereals are tef 3/ (grown as a cereal only in Ethiopia), maize, sorghum,
barley and wheat. Tef has the least potential, but is the preferred food
grain and is the most widely grown. It grows well on heavy clays, which
are common in the highlands and on which other food grains do not thrive,
and has good nutritive and storage qualities. Barley is widely sown at
higher altitudes. Maize is important in reliable rainfall, medium altitude
areas, almost coinciding with the tree crop area of western and southern
Ethiopia and Hararghe Region. Sorghum is the main grain of low lying,
warmer, drier parts of the highlands, but is also important in several
maize growing regions and dominates the rotation in Hararghe.
1.09      Coffee is the most important cash crop.  It originated in
Ethiopia and grows on some 0.5 million ha--much of it is wild. The coffee
area forms a crescent in the southwest, south and southeast highlands. Of
the estimated 200,000 tons produced annually, about 90,000 tons are
exported. Other important industrial crops are mainly grown on state farms
under irrigation and include 50,000 ha cotton and 20,000 ha sugarcane,
mostly for domestic requirements.
C. Land Tenure and Farmer Organization
1.10      Following the 1974 Revolution, a major reform program (1975)
nationalized all land. Land-use rights were given to over 7 million
cultivators, many of whom had been tenants. While the maximum area
allocated to each family is 10 ha, actual allocation is related to family
size and averages between 1 and 2 ha for a family of 4-5 persons.
Implementation of the agrarian reform program was a major achievement, the
full benefits of which have been partly eroded by the frequent land
distribution process within peasant associations as new families enter them
2/   For administrative purposes, Ethiopia is divided into 14 Regions,
whieh include 102 Awrajas which are further subdivided into 581
Woredas.
3/   Eragrostis tef.



-4-
or become eligible for land, and as producer cooperatives are formed. Most
large agricultural estates were converted into state farms which now cover
over 250,000 ha. GOSE has promoted the three types of peasant
institutions--peasant associations (PA), service cooperatives (SC) and
producer cooperatives (PC). PAs are local farmer institutions charged,
inter alia, with administering land distribution including adjudicating on
land disputes, collecting land taxes, and promoting economic, social and
political development. About 19,800 PAs have been formed, each covering
around 800 ha and comprising an average of 280 farm families. More
recently, GOSE initiated a villagization program under which the rural
population is being progressively moved into central villages, usually one
for each PA or a maximum of 500 families. So far about 5,400 PAs (27%)
have been villagized, including the majority of PAs in the Southeastern and
Eastern Zones. GOSE propose to complete the villagization program over
most of the country during the next five years which appears to be somewhat
ambitious. About 3,900 SCs with an average membership of 4-5 PAs serving
some 4-5 million peasant families have also been formed. SCs provide
inputs, consumer goods, marketing, credit and otber services to members.
Most, however, are at an early development stage and deal mainly with
consumer goods and collection of PA grain quotas for sale to the parastatal
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC). The objective of PCs is to pool
peasants' resources and operate both crop and livestock production
communally, thereby hopefully using economies of scale to adopt improved
technology such as mechanization. GOSE is encouraging PC formation by
giving incentives to members including lower taxes, priority access to
production inputs, credit, consumer goods, building material, MOA technical
staff, and higher prices for crop outputs. So far, some 1,490 PCs have
been formed with an average membership of 72 households, representing only
2% of total peasant families and accounting for close to 2% of the
harvested land. In the program areas in Bale and Hararghe regions, 107 and
154 PCs, respectively, have been established.   The PA and SC development
has brought about profound changes in rural society structure, and could
provide a solid base upon which to promote and accelerate agricultural and
rural development. These institutions could however also be used to
further control and regiment the rural population.
D. Agricultural Agencies and Services
Ministry of Agriculture
1.11      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was responsible for all aspects
of agriculture until 1979, when the Ministry of State Farms, the Ministry
of Coffee and Tea Development and the Relief and Rehabilitation Commi lion
(RRC) were established. However, MOA remains responsible for developing
the peasant sector comprising some 95% of agricultural resources and
production.
1.12      MOA Decentralization and Reorganization.  MOA was reorganized in
December 1984, decision-making and technical support functions being
decentralized to eight administrative Zones each containing one to three
admin-istrative Regions. At headquarters (HQ), departments are grouped
into four Vice-Ministries veporting directly to the Minister. The four



- 5 -
Vice-Ministries of 'Main' Departments are: Rural Infrastructure
Development, Cooperative Promotion and 4griculture Development, Animal and
Fishery Resources Development, and Natural Resources Conservation and
Development. The departments within each Vice-Ministry and the
administrative, planning and control departments reporting directly to the
Minister, are shown in Annex IX, Chart 1. The Minister of tgriculture is
also the Chairman of the Institute of 4ricultural Research (IAR) and the
4 ricultural Tnput Supply Corporation (AISCO).
1.13      The eight MOA Zonal offices embracing all 14 Regions are
comprised as follows: Central (Shewa), North Western (Gonder, Gojam),
Western (Welega, Ilubabor, Kefa), Southern (Gamo Gofa, Sidamo), South
Eastern (Arsi, Bale), Eastern (Hararghe), North Eastern (Welo), and
Northern (Eritrea, Tigray). Each Zonal office is directed by a General
Manager, supported by four main technical departments reflecting the
revised HQ organization: Animal and Fisheries Resource Development,
Cooperative Promotion and tgricultural Development, Rural Infrastructure
Development, and Natural Resources Conservation and Development. The
organization at the Awraja -and Woreda level remains virtually unchanged
with all technical staff reporting administratively to an Awraja and Woreda
Head. The Zonal organization is illustrated in Annex IX, Chart 2. Woreda
extension staff are being progressively redeployed to SCs or Development
Center5 (DC) as Development 4gents (DA), thus bringing them closer to the
farmers they serve.
1.14      At first the reorganization affected MOA's implementation
capacity adversely, but the beneficial effect of redeploying senior and
experienced staff combined with improved delegation of authority is now
being felt in the Zones. MOA has also commenced a series of training
courses for managers (department heads and vice-ministers). Overall, the
disruptive effects of the reorganization have been largely overcome, and
the MOA implementation capacity now exceeds that prevailing in 1984,
although some senior staff vacancies still remain to be filled. This
capacity is reinforced by the earlier decentralization of the increasingly
important National Committee for Central Planning (NCCP), to planning zones
which, with some minor exceptions, coincide with the MOA Zones.
Other Ministries
1.15      The Ministry of State Farms is responsible for operating all
State Farms, including irrigated farms, covering about 250,000 ha arable
(grain, horticulture, cotton) and several livestock enterprises (dairying,
beef, poultry). It operates through seven corporations. The Ministry of
Coffee and Tea Development handles the development and improvement of
smallholder coffee processing and production. The Relief and
Rehabilitation Commission deals with relief for people affected by natural
and manmade disasters and for resettlement of farmers from over-crowded,
eroded and military conflict areas.
Inputs and Marketing Services
1.16      In th' past, the 4gricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), under
the Ministry of Domestic Trade, imported fertilizer msinly diammonium
phosphate and transported the same to MOA stores, while MOA handled



-6-
distribution to farmers. Seeds of improved crop varieties are produced and
sold by the Ethiopian Seeds Corporation (ESC), which forms part of the
Ministry of State Farms and received substantial support under HPP II (Cr.
1088-ET). ESC relies on IAR for new varieties and breeder seed. The
Corporation suffers from the lack of seed varieties consistently superior
to local varieties, comparatively poor seed quality, weakly based demand
estimates upon which to base production requirements, lack of control over
production facilities and financial constraints. So far, most inputs 
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides -- have been used by state farms, only
about 46,000 tons of fertilizer annually being used on average in the
peasant sector, although the recent trend in-peasant usage appears to be
increasing. Only about 2% of farmers are thought to use improved seeds.
1.17      AMC is responsible for purchasing, storing and distributing
grain, pulses and oilseeds. Out of an estimated 1.8 million tons of
peasant sector marketable surplus AMC purchases about 0.25 million tons at
prices set by GOSE, which are the same throughout the country. GOSE has
curtailed private traders' activities, especially inter-regional trade
between surplus and deficit food producing areas, and reinforced this by
progressively increasing compulsory quota deliveries to AMC by farmers.
This has resulted in material inefficiencies -- grain shortages, high open
market prices and high AMC operating margins. A 1983 GOSE/World Bank
review of grain marketing and farmer incentives found that the current
system acts as a production disincentive and contributed to food shortages
and high prices in urban areas. The review also considered AMC would not,
on its own, be able to handle additional throughput resulting from
increased production. GOSE has recognized the need to improve farmer
incentives, to ease restrictions on private and inter-regional trade, and
to restrict AMC purchases and is currently studying options for improving
the situation.
Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO)
1.18      AISCO was established in late 1984 as an autonomous agency within
MOA responsible for procuring and distributing inputs required by the
agricultural sector. To date it has focussed largely on peasant sector
fertilizer requirements. AISCO's authorized capital is Birr 10 million
(US$5 million) comprised of around Birr 7 million in assets and Birr 3
million in cash. AISCO staff and assets were largely transfered from MOA
and AMC. The institution consists of a headquarters office in Addis Ababa
and eight zonal offices, paralleling the MOA organizational structure.
AISCO has assumed responsibility from MOA and AMC for distribution of
inputs from central depots to SCs and PAs. However, AISCO has yet to build
up the administrative system needed for an effective independent
organization.
Agricultural Credit
1.19      The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB, wholly
Government-owned) is charged with providing credit to agriculture, industry
and other sectors. Its main agricultural business in the past has derived
from financing state farms. Peasant sector lending as a percentage of
total agricultural lending is small to date (5%), and expansion is
constrained by the small branch network (9 branches, 12 sub-branches) and



insufficient field staff trained to handle agricultural credit. Since
1983, AIDB has received seven loans and a grant totaling Birr 208 million,
for agricultural development; three of these facilities include funds for
small-scale irrigation development, but no funds have been disbursed as yet
for the purpose. The main reasons for this are (i) insufficient publicity
about credit facilities; (ii) inadequate collaboration between AIDB and IDD
in promoting and preparing projects; and (iii) in some cases, the lack of
registration of service cooperatives because AIDB can lend only to
registered SCs and PCs. Due largely to the unsatisfactory performance of
state sector loans (agricultural and industrial), AIDB's financial position
has been weakened. Moreover, deteriorating terms-of-trade for peasant
farmers has adversely affected peasant sector loan portfolio repayments
although it is substantially better than the parastatal and state sector
portfolios. GOSE recently implemented financial restructuring measures to
restore AIDB's capital position. These measures involving writing-off old
loans, increasing the GOSE capital contributioi. and the repayment of some
old State Farm loans, have improved the debt:equity ratio to around 2:1 and
improved the quality of the State Farm loan portfolio. State Farm arrears
over one year old as a proportion of total State Farm loans have been
reduced from around 50% to about 20%.
1.20      Input credit has been administered by MOA in the past with AIDB
providing the funds and bearing the risks. Until recently, this
responsibility was divided between AISCO and AIDB, an arrangement which did
not prove satisfactory. GOSE has now directed that the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia (CBE) is to play the lead role in providing short term credit to
the peasant sector. CBE has the country's largest branch network (145
branches). It captures resources in each region through demand and savings
deposit. In many areas it is in much closer contact with the farming
community than AIDB. AIDB development loan borrowers would be required to
obtain seasonal credit from AIDB only. AIDB will, in the meantime, retain
all peasant sector development lending. Service cooperatives are becoming
increasingly important in channelling credit for input, oxen, flour mills,
stores and procurement, marketing of coffee and cereals. A recent trend is
for an increasing proportion of farmers to pay cash for fertilizer, a
response to the introduction of price incentives for cash payment.
Recently, a high level GOSE group visited India to study the structure and
operations of Indian agricultural credit. Among other things, the group
recommended that the activities of CBE and AIDB be more closely integrated
with CBE especially assuming the major role for agricultural input credit.
AIDB is also being strengthened through an IFAD Credit Loan (Loan 131-ET)
administered by IDA, which includes staff training and institutional
strengthening through technical assistance.
E. Government Agricultural Development Policies
1.21      Food crop production growth has been inadequate due to a complex
set of factors, including unfavorable weather, high input costs and low
producer prices combining to provide inadequate production incentives,
marketing problems, and the limited impact of research and extension work.
The GOSE ten-year Perspective Plan (1983/84-1993/94) gives highest priority
to attaining food grain self-sufficiency. Expanding agricultural exports



-8
also commands high priority. The strategy gives the peasant sector
priority but also includes major expansion of state farm output. The
socialization of agricultural production and marketing is a major
objective. Increased production is to come from expanding the areas under
cultivation (1.6% annually) and increasing use of improved technology,
including irrigation, soil and water conservation, fertilizer use, improved
seeds and pest control.
1.22      Recognizing that the current MOA services are inadequate relative
to the need, and that improved Input supply and distribution especially
fertilizer, improved seeds, farm chemicals and veterinary medicines must be
provided if the peasant sector is to improve output at the rate which the
economy demands, MOA developed a Peasant Agricultural Development Program
(PADEP). PADEP strategy stresses development of SCs and strengthening
extension services as well as increasing efficiency of national
organizations providing credit and input supply and distribution such as
AIDB, AISCO, ESC and MOA. Aimed at national coverage, PADEP was to be
implement-ed in all eight zones with the World Bank financing three of
these; the Government of Ethiopia, two; SIDA, one; and IFAD, two. This has
since been modified with the World Bank supporting two; SIDA, two; EEC,
one; ADF, one; and IFAD, one (Hararghe Zone).
F. The Irrigation Subsector
General
1.23      Development of modern large-scale irrigation systems has been
a relatively recent phenomenon in Ethiopia. In the period of 1957-1973,
initial priorities were focussed primarily on large-scale development and
the expansion of irrigated commercial agriculture. The areas developed
are: 64,000 ha in the upper, middle and lower Awash Valley for sugarcane,
cotton, maize and sorghum; 10,000 ha in Mareb Gash and 4,200 ha in Rift
Valley Lakes for cotton and maize and 3,500 ha in Wabe Shebelli Valley for
maize and sorghum.
Traditional Small-Scale Irrigation Systems
1.24      Traditional small-scale irrigation has a relatively long history
in certain parts of Eritrea, Shewa and Hararghe. Reliable statistics on
the extent of small-scale irrigation schemes are unavailable. Recent
sources4/ indicate a total area of 5,000-10,000 ha. These estimates
appear overly conservative, but with no comprehensive technical inventory
nor administrative registering of schemes, it is difficult to check the
reliability of these figures even on a regional level. Perennial
irrigation tends to be practiced in Hararghe and Shewa where stream flows
and springs have longer periods of discharge while in Eritrea the use of
4/   Land Use Planning and kegulatory Department, MOA/FAO:  Etbiopian
Highlands Reclamation Study. "The Potential for Irrigation in the
Ethiopia Highlands." Addis Ababa, 1984; and FAO/AFDB: Ethiopia,
Small-Scale Irrigation Project Preparation Report, Rome, 183.



- 9 -
spate irrigation is often practiced. More recently, mall-scale irrigation
development has been increasing in areas such as North Bale, primarily
through the initiative of farmers' groups, PAs and PCs, and their interest
in improving cash incomes through vegetable production or other forms of
agricultural activity. The use of small-scale irrigation projects for
securing production of staple food crops appears to be relatively limited,
although in some areas the availMdility of irrigation water allows the
production of two cereal crops per year, one of which is rainfed, and the
other irrigated. Most schemes are based on seasonal diversion structures
and a system of earth channels distributing water to field outlets.
Distribution and other structures are rarely seen and field irrigation is
usually based on a system of uncontrolled flooding. The resulting water
use efficiency is very low and considerable scope exists for improved water
use management to increase the irrigated areas and crop production.
Government Agencies
1.25      In 1981 GOSE established the National Water Resources Commission
(NWRC) 'to give central guidance in, and to ensure, the optimum utilization
of the nation's inland water resources." Under NWRC four new authorities
were formed, of which the Water Resources Development Authority (WRDA) and
the Ethiopian Water Works Construction Authority (EWWCA) are concerned with
irrigation development. A standing agreement between WRDA and MOA provides
a framework for the allocation of responsibilities for the development of
irrigation as follows: (a) schemes less than 200 ha are the responsibility
of IDD in MOA; (b) schemes of between 200 ha and 3,000 ha are planned and
designed in cooperation with the IDD. Execution of the irrigation
infrastructure is undertaken by EWWCA whilst the IDD is responsible for
land development; and (c) schemes of over 3,000 ha are the responsibility
of WRDA.
1.26      Small-scale irrigation development was previously carried by the
surface water division of the Soil and Water Conservation Department (SWCD)
of MOA. In 1984 the Division was separated from SWCD and upgraded to the
Irrigation Development Department (IDD). The Department is still in its
early development phase and relies on technical assistance from various
sources. Together with the decentralization of MOA, IDD is transferring
staff to Zonal Offices to build capacity in the regions where small-scale
irrigation is of importance. With the expected load of activities, IDD
needs 15-25 irrigation engineers, 4-6 irrigation agronomists, 10-15
agricultural engineers and a large number of supervisors, surveyors and
draftsmen. Zonal level staff and earthmoving machineries, equipment,
vehicles, etc, also need to be increased
Government Development Plans
1.27      The Ten-Year (1984-93) Perspective Plan, issued in January 1983
included plans for a sizable expansion of large-scale irrigation and the
provision of technical assistance to improve irrigation. The recent
drought required some changes of the Government plans. For the most
seriously affected areas in northern Ethiopia, the Government initiated a
crash program of building medium-scale irrigation schemes (200-3,000 ha).
UNDP and the Italian Government contributed to the program which was
criticized by some observers as being too hastily prepared. Presently, the



- 10 -
Government is pursuing a program of expanding all three types of
irrigation: large-scale schemes for cash crop production and small- and
medium-scale schemes for food production by farmers and cooperatives. A
comprehensive irrigation development plan has not been prepared. At
presen., IDD is concerned with the construction of 16 small-scale
irrigation schemes commanding approximately 4,270 ha.
Constraints Affecting Small-Scale Irrigation Development
1.28      Although MOA has almost ten years of experience with small-scale
irrigation, the experience has been limited and based almost exclusively on
centrally planned schemes, with an average size of about 200 ha. Only in
Bale and Arsi has some experience been gained, through SIDA assistance,
with the development of micro schemes (up to 30 ha). There is a lack of
experienced irrigation staff in the zones; furthermore, general shortage of
transport equipment hinders the ability of field staff to visit schemes or
farmers' groups and PAs which wish to construct or expand schemes. This
constraint is exacerbated by the mountainous nature of most of the country
and the scarcity of road access to many of the areas. Financing of small
irrigation schemes has been provided by several donors (EEC, SIDA, WFP),
generally on a grant basis. The rate of development of many of these
schemes has been relatively slow due to a variety of constraints such as:
(a) shortage of materials; (b) lack of technical and physical resources to
proceed with land development; and (c) lack of knowledge of irrigated
agriculture due to inadequate research findings and extension services,
etc. Although GOSE established the principle of cost recovery from
beneficiaries, it is not applied where grant funds are available. In
addition, credit for small irrigation works is being provided under the
IFAD Agricultural Credit Project through AIDB, but it has not been
utilized, mainly because IDD resources have been inadequate to provide the
technical support needed by AIDB.   Thus both funding mechanisms, i.e.,
through IDD directly or through AIDB, do not operate satisfactorily and
would require substantial improvements. The proposed project would address
these constraints.
Potential
1.29      While these constraints are substantial, the potential for
development of small-scale irrigation is attractive. It is estimated,
based on the limited data, that 130,000 ha of low cost, gravity-fed
irrigation (20% perennial; 80% season-I) could be developed without
storage. With storage, the potential could be raised to over 220,000 ha.
About 30,000 ha of this total are thought to exist in the low rainfall,
drought affected areas. The interest by farmers in initiating their own
schemes, as already manifested in Arsi, Bale and Hararghe indicates that,
if the technical and financial resources were in place, a large part of the
responsibility for small-scale irrigation development could be taken over
by the communities, PAs and and water user associations. As most existing
schemes have no water control structures, badly constructed canals and poor
levelling and layouts, minor investments and technical support could give
important incremental benefits to farming communities.



- 11 -
G. The Soil and Water Conservation Subsector
Historical Background
1.30      With a population historically living on plentiful and fertile
land, combined with a feudal system which was basically exploitative in
nature, in most parts of the country little tradition of soil and water
conservation was developed. It is only in recent years following the
drought of 1973/74 and the Revolution that increased attention has been
focussed on the problem.
The Extent of Degradation
1.31      The current state of soil erosion is an outcome of this lack of
awareness and of the combined factors of a rapidly increasing population
and a limited area of fertile soils on flat land. About 15 million ha
(28%) of the highlands are in a seriously eroded condition, and a further
13 million ha (24%) are showing moderately accelerated erosion. The
balance of 26 million ha (48%) includes some 15 million ha of land with
erosion-susceptible soils which could become the problem area of the future
if not properly managed. 5/ It is estimated that if current rates of
erosion continue over the7next five years, about 3 million ha of land will
be reduced to rock, 4 million ha will be reduced to 10 cm soil depth and 2
million ha will be reduced to 15-25 cm depth. Over 7 million ha would
become uinsuirable for stable agriculture. The other main resources to
suffer are the forests and the available water. Of the originally forested
area, Gamo Gofa has 30% left, but in the rest of the highlands only 2% to
4% remains. A combination of deforestation and soil loss has led to an
increase in the frequency and severity of floods and a decrease in dry
season flow.
Response to Degradation
1.32      There have been two major external influences on soil and water
conservation in Ethiopia: the World Food Program/FFW program officially
referred to as "Rehabilitation of Forest, Grazing and Agricultural Land"
arid the World Bank-sponsored and FAO-executed Ethiopian Highlanids Reclama-
tion Study." The first has been in operation in one form or another for
ten years but it was only in 1982 that the current, considerably expanded
program was initiated. The primary objective of this program is to make
food available where it is badly needed; to achieve soil conservation is a
secondary aim. The positive effects are: (i) achieving a huge amount of
terracing and bunding; (ii) creating a national awareness of soil erosion
and soil conservation; and (iii) laying a foundation for biological soil
conservation to build on. The negative effects are: (1) the program is
restricted to food-deficit areas, so the high production, food surplus
areas are left out; (ii) as the program depends on external funding, it
must be seen as temporary and thus cannot become a sustainable activity of
GOSE; (iii) there is little farmer involvement or motivation which results
5/   FAO/Land Use Planning Department, MOA, Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation
Study, 1984.



- 12 -
In problems of maintenance for completed structures; and (iv) to achieve
the volvme of work it is necessary to use oversimplified designs and
specifications without sufficient evaluation of the problems and solutions
in each area. The Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation Study, extended over
four years with an input of nearly 200 man-months of external technical
assistance. Although aimed at producing a long-term overall strategy for
the reclamation of the highlands, a large part of the study was concerned
with assessment of the erosion problem, consideration of conservation
methods, and development of a strategy for a conservation program. A
complementary activity also undertaken by FAO has been the provision of
technical assistance to the previous Department of Soil and Water
Conservation, now the Department of Community Forestry and Soil
Conservation Development (CFSCDD). The main inputs have been a large
training program, including preparation of a series of manuals for
in-service training and use. It is anticipated that a third phase will be
finalized shortly. Other externally supported activities are: the Soil
Conservation Research Project supported and staffed by the University of
Bern, Switzerland, in operation since 1980, which includes experimentation,
trials and some limited training; and the applied research programs of the
International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA).
Constraints and Potential
1.33      With its existing population growth, limited good agricultural
land and mountainous terrain, the physical and demographic factors will
continue to dominate and will result in increasing degradation, even with a
greatly expanded program of physical measures, unless the people appreciate
the importance of soil and water conservation to the productivity of their
own farms, and actively involve themselves in measures to counteract
erosion. This will not be possible as long as the current climate exists
where the majority of conservation activities are only physical in nature
(terracing, bunding, cutoff dams, etc.) and are paid for by FFW. Research
both within and outside Ethiopia produced some good, sound techniques and
practices of biological soil conservation that would greatly contribute to
the reduction in erosion and the buildup of soil productivity, but a major
gap exists between the resea:ch results and the farmer. At present farmers
receive practically no advice except in terms of physical construction
measures. The extension service has very few Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS) trained in conservation practices and techniques; practically no
extension messages are available which are directly conservation oriented.
The proposed project would in Hararghe, the zone for which GOSE has
requested IFAD assistance for agricultural development, bridge the gap
through conservation based adaptive trials, demonstrations and
strengthening of the extension service.
H. IFAD and Bank-Group Assistance
1.34      IFAD has provided support for three projects/programs:  the
Second Minimum Package Program Project (MPP II), the Agricultural Credit
Project and the Rehabilitation Program for Drought-Affected Areas. MPP II,
which terminated in December 1985, was cofinanced with the World Bank and
SIDA. The aim was to strengthen the institutional and technical foundation



- 13 -
for the development of peasant agriculture by providing material support
and technical assistance to extension, applied research, seed
multiplication, input supply and soil and water conservation activities.
While certain parts of the project proceeded well, such as soil
conservation and instiltut1onal support, the project in general fell short
of expectations.
1.35      The Agricultural Credit Project, which is currently under
implementation, was approved in September 1983, and is due for completion
by September 1988. The total project cost is Birr 33.7 million (US$16.3
million). By December 1985, 18% of the loan had been disbursed. Through
the establishment of medium-term lines of credit--for draught oxen, flour
and oil mills, stores and dairy cattle--the project addresses one of the
major constraints on agriculture in the peasant sector--lack of liquidity
in the rural areas. It also helps to strengthen the institutions involved:
AIDB, through staff training and technical assistance; MOA's Cooperative
Department, through training of auditors and accountants; and Service
Cooperatives, through training of accountants and committee members dealing
with the credit lines. Results so far are encouraging: demand for oxen
and flour mill loans has already surpassed estimates; and store
applications are starting to pick up. Lending criteria for dairy loans
have been established but are slow in picking up.
1.36      The most recent IFAD initiative, the Rehabilitation Prog am for
Drought Affected Areas (effective in June 1985), is a quickly disbursing
support to provide seeds, agricultural tools, and implements and to
rehabilitate social services, such as drinking water and primary health
care for the peasant sector, in response to the urgent needs brought about
by the current drought. It is a three-year program totalling US$19.4
million with IFAD financing about two-thirds; the Belgian Survival Fund,
one-quarter and the Government, the remainder. UNDP, UNICEF and WHO are
all actively involved in implementation. The Program has arranged for the
distribution of tef seed to 290,000 farm families and, together with a
consortium of 42 Non-Governmental Organizations is organizing the
distribution of hand tools to farmers in drought affected areas. In
addition, technical assistance is being provided to AISCO and AIDB. A
major portion of the tef seed provision has been distributed; the hand
tools are now being distributed; the other components, which have been
somewhat slower in starting up due to administrative delays, are now
picking up. The program also financed a pilot scheme for development of up
to 25 schemes of 100-150 ha command area, in an area of 200-300 square
kilometers. Different types of micro schemes such as river diversions,
small storage reservoirs, mountain springs, etc., are included.  The
Identification, design, economic evaluation and construction of these
sample projects will help to develop design, specifications and
construction costs, check the proposed economic evaluation procedures and
investigate alternative organizational arrangements for the involvement of
farmers in the construction and operation of the schemes. The pilot scheme
would facilitate the early start of the proposed project.
1.37      The World Bank support for agricultural development in Ethiopia
includes the two Minimum Package Projects (Cr. 416-ET and Cr. 1088-ET)
which were aimed at increasing agricultural production in the highlands.



- 14 -
Coffee Projects (Cr. 290-ET and Cr. 1429-ET) supported processing, to
increase value added to the treditionally sundried crop and AMC's storage
and marketing activities were strengthened under Cr. 789-ET. Other
projects were for Drought Rehabilitation and Land Settlement (Cr. 485-ET),
Irrigation (Cr. 2337-ET), Agricultural Research (Cr. 1521-ET), Drought
Recovery (Cr. 1576-ET), and Livestock Development (Cr. 603-ET). The latter
project focussed largely on rangeland development in lowland pastoral
areas.
1.38      The objectives of IDA asListance to Ethiopian agriculture are to
(a) increase domestic food production primarily in the peasant sector; (b)
improve the incentive framework, marketing conditions and the general
economic and institutional environment for agricultural development; and
(c) increase foreign exchaTge earninga and savings. Some projects have
attracted additional cofinincing (SIDA, IFAD, AFDB) or other complementary
assistance (WFP, ILO). In addition, the last four road development credits
have included rural road construction which contribute towards agricultural
development. Since 1973, three credits (US$138 million) have supported
educational development which also contributed to agricultural
development. Project implementation has generally been satisfactory, but
due to an unsatisfactory price incentive, economic benefits have generally
been low. A growing recognition of these constraints has resulted in GOSE
indicating its willingness to consider introducing measures to resolve the
marketing and pricing issues.



- 15 -
II. THE PROGRAM AREA
2.01      Area and Population.  The program area comprises the highland
Awrajas of Arsi, Bale, Sidamo and Hararghe regions, the crescent shaped
Ethiopian highland section east of the Rift Valley. Mountains, which reach
elevations of over 4,000 m surround large plains in southern Arsi and
northwestern Bale and together with the highlands of Hararghe, form an
extended dissected ridge from Arsi to the Somali border. Extensive plains
also occur in the Rift Valley and form parts of Arsi and Northern Sidamo.
Of the Small-Scale Irrigation Subproject, rehabilitation of existing
schemes would cover the whole project area, while construction of new
schemes would be implemented in Northern Sidamo, Northern Hararghe, Western
Arsi, and Northwestern Bale. The Conservation and Agricultural Support
Subprogram would be confined to the Hararghe region. Table 2.1 lists the
Program Awrajas together with the area and population of the relevant
regions . The population density of the Program Awrajas is generally
higher than the density of the relevant Region as a whole. In some
Awrajas, densities exceed 100 per km2.
Table 2.1
Area and Population (1984)
All
Arsi    Bale    Sidamo    Hararghe    Ethiopia
Area (km2)             24,600   128,300   116,700    254,800   1,220,000
% of Ethiopia               2         11        10          21         100
Population ('000)       1,662      1,006     3,791       4,152      42,019
Z of Ethiopia               4          2         9          10         100
Population Density
per km2                  67.6        7.8      32.5        16.3        34.3
Total Awrajas               3          5         6          13         110
Program Awrajas             3a/        3b/       2c/         8d/        16
a/ Arba Gugu, Chilalo, Ticho
b/ Delo, Genale, Mendeyo
c/ Sidamo, Welayita
d/ Chercher, Dire Dawa, Gara Muleta, Gursum,
Habro, Harer Zuriya, Jijiga, Webera.
2.02      Soils.  The soils in the highlands are predominantly Nitosols and
Luvisols on the slopes and Vertisols in the vallevs. There are also
Rendzinas, Lithosols, Cambisols, Fluvisols and Ferrasols, ail generally
suited for irrigation. Nitosols are among the most productive soils of the
tropics. They are able to sustain continuous cropping and to maintain
fertility under cultivation without fallowing. Luvisols are best suited
for annual crops such as maize, tobacco and cotton. Vertisols have a low
permeability and are more difficult to cultivate. Correctly managed, many
Vertisols are capable of supporting annual cropping at moderate to high
levels of production.
2.03      Climate and Rainfall.  The climatic conditions of the program
area differ widely determined by altitude and geographic latitude,



- 16 -
Precipitation increases from the northeast to the southwest and with
increasing altitude. In general, there are two rainv seasons--one in
March/April, and one in July-September--which are more distinct towards the
South while they tend to merge into one season towards the North. Annual
mean rainfall in Genale and Mendeyo are in the order of 800-900 mm and
900-1,000 mm, respectively, which limits the length of main growing period
to 140 days and 160 days, respectively. In Delo rainfall decrease from
about 9CO mm in the North to about 500 mm in the South. In Hararghe mean
annual rainfall varies from 950-1,500 mm. The northern lowlands have a
largely arid climate characterized by evaporation that exceeds
precipitation.
2.04      Water Resources and Irrigation Potential.  From the high mountain
massifs which receive over 1,000 mm annual rainfall, springs and perennial
streams emerge whose baseflow varies between 0.5 and 3 liters per second
per km2 where they drain catchments of less than 1,000 km2. The potential
for small-scale irrigation development, based on the exploitation of the
surface water resources has been estimated at about 1-2% of the cultivated
area In the highlands which would amount to from 40,000 to 70,000 ha in the
program area of which, however, only some 50% may meet the economic,
agricultural and technical criteria considered essential for successful
development.
2.05      Farming Systems and Land Holdings.  Mixed farming is the most
common farming system in the program area. Land holdings of the farmers
range from about 0.5 to 3 ha depending on the population density of the
region and the dominant cropping pattern. In Bale, the pressure on the
land is substantially lower than in Arsi and Hararghe. 4gricultural
practices are at a fairly low standard. Cultivation is carried out by
ox-ploughing, sowing by broadcasting, weeding by hand and threshing with
animals.
2.06      Crop Production.  The main cereal crops which occupy about 90% of
the total cultivated area are wheat and barley in Bale and Arsi, maize and
barley in Sidamo and sorghum and maize in Hararghe. Other crops grown are
pulses, vegetables, fruits and perennial crops. Yields are generally low
at about 1-1.5 tons of cereals per hectare and 0.7-1.2 tons of pulses per
hectare.
2.07      Agricultural Services.  While practically all farmers belong to
PAs and SCs in the program area, many SCs are not registered and therefore
not eligible for AIDB Credit. AIDB branch offices exist only at Dire Dawa
and hwasa, and are thus out of the reach of most farmers. Arsi has
benefitted from years of intensive development with SIDA assistance-
firstly, from the Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit and later, from the
Arsi Agricultural Development Unit, As a result, the region has the best
developed network of SC and improved wheat and barley growing technology
are widely practiced. There is much room for further improvement but in
general, yield levels of smallholders in Arsi are higher than in other
regions. By contrast, there has been much less development in the other
regions of the project area. In Bale, for example, fertilizer sales in
1983/84 amounted to only some 350 tons. The amount of improved seed
available is negligible. The extension service has been built up recently
but the farmer:DA ratio of 1:2,500 is still very low. Specialized
expertise In irrigated agriculture does not exist.



- 17 -
2.08      Infrastructure.  All-weather roads connect the major towns of the
program area, but large rural areas are still without any roads. Although
an ambitious road building program is underway, supported by the World Food
Program, in many areas the marketing of agricultural produce depends
primarily on animal transport over mountain trails.  The recent
villagization program which is practically completed in the program area,
provides the advantage of easier access to villages, and more economic
constr-etion of schools and water supply facilities, b-t the construction
of these facilities is lagging behind the construction of the villages.
Hospitals exist only in major towns. The danger of water borne diseases in
irrigation sche%zq exists, but is reduced in small-scale schemes to a much
lower level than in 'arge schemes, because channels and drains dry out
regularly.
2.09      The Target Group.  The Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram would be
directed towards 25,000 farm families or 125,000 people in the regions of
Bale, Arsi, Sidamo and Hararghe; while the Conservation and Agricultural
Support Subprogram would be directed towards 300,000 families or 1.5 mil-
lion people in Hararghe. Estimated incomes in a normal year for an average
family of six people on a holding of 1.1 ha are about Birr 800 or US$64 per
capita-only 46% of the GNP per capita in Ethiopia.  Little of the farm
incomes are currently earned as cash, since most families are living at a
subsistence level and consuming their produce. On the one hand, periodic
droughts result in many farmers bping unable to sustain their subsistence
level of living; on the other hand, unchecked soil erosion is rendering
vast areas unsuitable for stable agriculture. Large parts of the recently
established bunds for erosion control lack protective cover and are in
danger of being gradually destroyed. Malnutrition is a major problem due
to various factors, one of which is inadequte availability of balanced and
nutritious diet.



- 18 -
III. THE PROGRAM
A. Rationale and Program Formulation
3.01      The proposed program would address priorities established by
Government for the agricultural sector and focus on investments mandated by
IFAD's Special Program for Sub-Saharan Africa (Annex VII). The five main
areas of the Special Program are: rehabilitation and capacity utilization;
development of traditional food crops; small-scale water control schemes;
agro-forestry and environmental rehabilitation; and institutional and
policy support. The program was based on proposals by an IFAD mission
which visited Ethiopia in November/December 1985 to formulate a Special
Country Program. While the original proposal of the IFAD formulation
mission included three subprograms-smallscale irrigation, conservation
based agricultural development; and input supplies--IFAD decided to delete
the input supply component and consider this component for cofinancing
within the framework of PADEP. While the small-scale irrigation subprogram
generally follows the proposals of the preparation reports, the
conservation baa d agricultural development subprogram was modified by the
appraisal mission. tConservation based agricultural development" a term
coined by the Ethiopia Highland Reclamation Study describes a broader
approach in which biological soil conservation combined with structural
soil conservation, would be introduced in Hararghe highlands, representing
one of the most severely eroded regions in the country. Since a
conservation based farming system would involve large numbers of small
farmers, the extension service would be strengthened through the
introduction of a modified training and visit (T&V) sJstem.
B. Objectives
3.02      Under the overall objectives of the Ten-fear Government Plan, the
proposed program would adopt a two-pronged approach which, while focussing
primarily on drought prone areas, would also help small farmers in higher
potential areas to produce a marketable food surplus.
3.03      The main objective of the Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram would
be the improvement of food production in those areas particularly
susceptible to drought: typically the areas falling between the 400 am and
800 mm isohyets of annual rainfall (at 80% probability of exceedence). In
years of normal rainfall, the irrigation schemes would be able to produce a
marketable surplus; in drought years, they would help maintain a food
supply for the local population. The irrigatinn development would also
contribute towards the overall strategy for intensification of land use in
areas where the target population has few other opportunities of making a
marked improvement in the level of agricultural production.
3.04      The Conservation and Agricultural Support Subprogram would
address the problems of land degradation in the highlands of Hararghe
Initially with the objective of improving agricultural production in the
highlands through a combination of structural and biological conservation



- 19 -
practices and strengthening institutional capability: adaptive research,
trials, demonstrations and extension. In specifically addressing the
constraints experienced by rural women through introduction of family
vegetable gardens, it would also help increase protein levels and nutrition
in the family. Both subprograms would represent initial efforts which are
planned to be extended to other parts of the country at a later stage.
3.05      Program Components.  The Program would include the following
components 8:
(a)   National support for small-scale irrigation by strengthening the
Project Studies and Preparation Division of IDD at headquarters
and establishing an ir:igation support unit at AIDB headquarters;
(b)   Zonal support for small-scale irrigation through strengthening of
the Rural Infrastructure Development Departments and Cooperative
Promotion tgricultural Development Departments at the Zonal
offices in Asela and Hatrar;
(c)   Provision of financing for small-scale irrigation through direct
financing by IDD/AIDB Credit; and
(d)   National support for conservation planning through strengthening
of the programming and planning capability of CFSCDD at
Headquarters;
(e)   Zonal support in Hararghe for conservation based trials;
(f)   Zonal support in Hararghe for strengthening agricultural
extension service based on modified training and visit system;
(g)   Zonal support in Hararghe for bund stabilization;
(h)   Zonal support in Hararghe for Rural Women's Development Program;
and
(i)   Monitoring and Evaluation.
C. Detailed Features
(1) Small-Scale IrrigationSubprogram (US$21.8 Million)
National Support (US$3.4 Million) 6/
3.06      The component would strengthen the Project Studies and
Preparation Division of the Irtigation Development Department (IDD) of MOA.
The Division would be responsible for the preparation of: (a) a cohesive
national strategy and policy framework for small-scale irrigation; (b)
guidelines for scheme selection, planning, implementation, supervision and
6/   Base Cost plus Contingencies.



- 20 -
monitoring; and (c) manuals and typical designs of small irrigation
schemes. The unit would be staffed with an irrigation engineer/planner
(head of unit), an agricultural economist, and an irrigation agronomist,
all internationally recruited. Incremental staff, operating expenses,
training (in-country and overseas), office space, office equipment and
vehicles would be financed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that (a) the Division, by August 31, 1987, would be adequately strengthened
to undertake the tasks listed above; (b) qualified counterpart staff would
be employed for all consultants; (c) incremental staff would be recruited
well in advance of the relevant activities; and (d) staff receiving
overseas training would be required to serve not less than two years on
Program activities following their overseas training. An Irrigation
Support Unit comprising a senior irrigation engineer with credit experience
as its head, an agricultural economist and two loan officers would be
established at AIDB headquarters, dedicated to the loan administration of
small-scale irrigation schemes executed through AIDB Credit. To help draw
up the procedures and in particular the working arrangements with IDD, both
at headquarters and zonal level, an experienced short-term consultant would
be provided for an initial four months in the first Program year to help
set up the system and then for one month per year for the following two
years to help adjust and modify the procedures to reflect the experience
gained. Office equipment, vehicles and training would be provided for the
unit.
Zonal Support (US$2.2 Millioni
3.07      The component would provide for the strengthening of IDD zonal
offices in Asela (for Arsi and Bale regions and for supporting project
preparation in Northern Sidamo) and Harrar (for Hararghe region) by the
establishment of units to plan, design, support and supervise
rehabilitation and construction of small irrigation schemes, ranging from
micro schemes (less than 10 ha), requiring limited engineering but
substantial assistance in water management, to larger schemes (less than
200 ha) requiring greater ezgineering inputs. During the first year,
Program support would be provided to the Asela zonal office and thereafter
be extended to Hararghe. It would include the construction of office
buildings, the provision of construction equipment, vehicles, office
equipment and furniture, books and technical manuals, training for staff
and skilled laborers, four man years of technical assistance (two for each
zonal office) and incremental staff and operating expenses. In the past,
IDD zonal units have constructed mainly larger schemes, but in future they
intend to give equal priority to small and micro schemes. The necessary
design capacity for such schemes, however, is lacking at the zonal level.
An assurance was obtained that IDD by December 31, 1987, would establish
the necessary support units for planning, design, technical support and
supervisain of rehabilitation and construction of irrigation schemes. A
further assurance was obtained that vehicles provided under this and other
components would be for the exclusive use of Program activities and would
be marked appropriately.
gricultural Support Services (US$2.6 Million)
3.08      Support would be provided to the Cooperative Promotion and
Agricultural tevelopment Department at the Zonal office in Asela and Hararr
to develop and strengthen expertise and extension in irrigated



- 21 -
agriculture. Technical assistance would be provided and subject matter
specialists at zonal and awraja levels in irrigation water management and
irrigated agriculture and their training, equipment, vehicles, motorcycles
and the establishment of demonstration plots would be financed.
Scheme Construction (US$13.6 Million)
3.09      Funding for the rehabilitation and construction of small
irrigation schemes would be made available through AIDB credit and MOA
financing. During the initial years of development, emphasis would be
given to rehabilitation of existing schemes and to the development of
smaller sized schemes. Rehabilitation would not involve the use of
additional water or change in water quality. Financing would be provided
for construction materials, cost of transporting them to construction
sites, construction equipment operation, skilled labor and construction
supervision, while unskilled labor would be provided by the beneficiaries.
Construction would include spring catchments, diversion structures
consisting of masonry and/or gabions, distribution and drop structures,
usually of masonry, and generally unlined canals. Land levelling would be
carried out by the farmers under the guidance of IDD technicians and DAs.
New schemes to command 1,650 ha and rehabilitated schemes to command 2,750
ha would be developed.
3.10      Although about 2% of the peasant families are members of PCs
countrywide and 5-6% in the Drogram area, about 70% of small irrigation
schemes are organized by PCs. The main objective of the IFAD Special
Country Program is to assist the poorest farmers. PCs normally receive
more encouragement and incentives from the Government. Allocation of
investment funds for irrigation to PCs would be in accordance with criteria
acceptable to GOSE, and IFAD.
3,11      Access roads would be built, where needed, for the construction
and efficient operation of irrigation schemes. For the rehabilitation/
expansion of schemes, only minor improvement of existing access roads would
be needed, but most new schemes would require the construction of access
roads which would be simple tracks for micro schemes and roads conforming
to the R50 standard 7/ for the larger schemes. Construction of access
roads would be carried out by unskilled labor financed by the World Food
Program through the Food-for-Work Program and Zonal CFSCDD would provide
technical planning and supervision.
(2) Conservation and Agricultural Support Subprogram (US$10.5 Million)
National Conservation Support Unit (US$1.5 Million)
3.12      The programming and planning capacity of the Community Forest and
Soil Conservation Development Department (CFSCDD) at headquarters would be
strengthened through the provision of technical assistance for the
collection and evaluation of information concerning conservation techniques
and conservation based agricultural systems on the basis of which a
cohesive national strategy would be developed and related operational work
7/   For 50 vehicles per day.



- 22 -
programs and plans for conservation activities determined. CFSCDD would
establish coordination with other Government departments and donor
agencies. Office and audio visual equipment for extension and training
would also be ptovided.
Zonal Support in Hararghe (US$9.1 Million)
3.13      Conservation Based Agronomic Trials (US$1.4 million).  The
component would provide for the establishment of about six ADD trial sites
with 15-20 ha each, about 30 on-farm demonstration trials of about 5 ha
each, and about 100 Farmer Demonstration Plots on sloping terrain,
representative of the highland crop areas in Hararghe. Construction of
store-cum-office buildings, tools and meteorological equipment and
incremental local salaries would be provided.
3.14      Agricultural Extension (US$5.7 million).  The extension system
would be closely linked to the trials program through the involvement of
the DAs in the supervision of on-farm trials and farmer demonstrat'on
plots, joint training sessions for SMSs and ADD staff and coordinated
programming of extension and trial activities. Support for the extension
service would include the provision of incremental staff salaries,
bicycles/mules, motorcycles, vehicles, furniture, field tools, equipment,
staff and farmers' training programs, books and technical manuals, and 36
man-months of technical assistance for a training/extension/communication
specialist. He would conduct not less than two months structured training
annually.
3.15      Bund Stabilization Program (US$1.0 million).  Large parts of the
recently established bunds for erosion control lack protective cover. If
they are not grassed, the time required to maintain them will be very high
or more likely they will gradually be destroyed. The capacity of AHFDD for
the establishment of suitable vegetation on such bunds would be
strengthened. This would include the establishment of three nurseries, the
provision of technical assistance, incremental staff, vehicles, tools and
equipment.
3.16      Rural Women's Development Support (US$1.0 million).  The
component which would address the problems of income generation for women
and family nutrition in Hararghe, would be implemented on a pilot basis,
kept flexible and monitored closely through the annual work programs. It
comprises two main elements: women's vegetable gardens in villages and a
women's rural development credit line. About 370 vegetable gardens
measuring on averi.ge 200 m  would be supported through provision of an
inputs package. A Birr 500,000 (US$242,000) line of credit for financing
women's income generating micro projects would be provided by AIDB.
Furthermore, the Rural Women's Team (RWT) at zonal offices would be
strengthened through provision of motor cycles for the eight Awraja
officers, a 4-WD vehicle for the Zonal Department Head, technical
assistance comprising an internationally recruited soclo-economist for 12
months, training programs, and a study to identify viable income generating
micro projects for women in Hararghe. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a Rural Women Development Credit Facility would be
established under terms and conditions satisfactory to IFAD.



- 23 -
(3) Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.4 million)
3.17                Support for monitoring, evaluation and surveys by MOA and AIDB
would be provided, including office equipment, vehicles, incremental
operating costs, training and technical assistance.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.18                Technical Assistance requirements for each component have already
been described earlier. Of the training programs, the most elaborate is
for agricultural extension staff and farmers which is described in detail
in Annex V. (para. 7).
D. Costs and Financing
Costs
3.19                Total Program cost is estimated at Birr 69.9 million (US$33.7
million) of which about US$15.6 million or about 46% represent foreign
exchange requirements. Investment costs are estimated at about Birr 52.4
million (US$25.3 million) or about 75% and recurrent costs at about Birr
17.5 million (US$8.4 million) or about 25%. Detailed cost estimates are
summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1
Project Cost Summary
(Dirr '000)                     (USS '000)                        Z Total
Zoreigr,   Base
Local   Foreiin   Total        Local   Foreign   Total    Excharae    Costs
A. SHALL SCALE MIRIGATION
NTIONAL SURPPRT                                       1,354,9  4,470,5  5Y825.4        654.5  2.159.7  2.814,2            77        11
ZONAL SPORt                                           1,174.1  1075.8  3.632.8         905.3    849.6  1.755.0            48         7
ACRICILTAL  SEVICE SUPPORT                            2,116.0  2.153.9  44269.9   1,022.2  1040,5  2.062.8                50         8
SCNV!S CONSTRUCTION                                  12,260.0  68890.5 19.150.5   5.922.7  3#328,8  9,251.5               36        37
Sub-Totl SL  SCALE IRRIGATION                           17,604.9 150273.7 32,871,6   8,504a  77378.6 15,983.4                 46        63
a# COSVTION I AGRICULTURAL SPRT
NATIONL CONEVATON SUPPORT UNIT                          467.0  2.040.9  2.507.9        225.6    985.9  1.211.5            81         5
CONSERVaTIN BASED O  ARONOMIC TRIALS                  1 .725.9    561.9  2.287.8       833.8    271.4  1.105.2            25         4
8UND STABLIZATION                                       706.8    923.9  1,630.7        341.4    446.3    787.8            57         3
EXTENSION                                             3,774,6  5.170,2  8.944.8   1,823,5  2,497.7  4.321.2               58        17
RRL   11S  KEWL         n SUPPORT                       362.9  14304*3  I.667.2        175.3    630.1    805,4            78         3
Su-Total CONSEVATION I AGRICULTURAL SUWORT               7.037,2 10.001,2 17.038,3   3.399.6  44831.5  8,231.1               59         33
C. NONITORING I EVALUATION
i I E                                                 1,083.9  1,221.3  2,305.2        523,6    590.0  1,113.6            53         4
Stub-Total NHIITQRJ11  I EVALUATION                      1,083.9  1,221.3  2,305.2        523.6    590S0  1,113.6             53         4
Total BAISEINE COSTS                                      25.7259 26,496.2 52.222.1  12,428.0 12.800.1 25P229.1                 51       100
POwical ConthU&ncies                                    2,094,5  1.359.4  3.454,0   1011,8    656,7  *1468.6                 39         7
Price Continsrcles                                      9,790.4  4.390.5 14.180,9   4.729#6  2.121.0  6,850.7                31        27
Total  RJECT COSTS                                        37,610.8 32246.2 69,857.0  18,169.5 15.577,9 33,47.4                  46       134
-~~s --.a: -:s ------ - - ------- -% -----------------



- 24 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in June 1986 and a possible
price escalation for imported and/or locally produced items has been added
to reflect the prices expected in November 1986 at the time of loan
negotiations. Physical contingencies on Program components overall amount
to about 6% of baseline costs. They have been estimated at 15% for
buildings and scheme investments and 10% on other investment items. No
physical contingencies have beeu included for staff costs and
consultancies.  Price contingencies have be8en estimated based on the
following expected annual inflation rates: _/
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991-95
…     -… -------- -…-
Foreign Exchange Component           6.8    6.8    7.0    7.1       4.0
Local Currency Component             9      9     10      10       10
3.20    Price contingencies totalling 28% of baseline Program cost plus
physical contingencies have been included to allow for expected increases
in local and foreign costs beyond the date of baseline cost estimates.
Import taxes and duties on Program goods where appropriate and taxes on
local salaries are estimated at Birr 5.0 million (US$2.4 million) and have
been included. The replacement and recurrent costs after the six years
investment period would average about Birr 900,000 annually before debt
servicing.
Financing
3.21      The Program costs would be financed in the following amounts by
the following donors:
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million;
Local     Foreign      Total
-    -  -US$ million …
IFAD Loan                                    3.8         7.2       11.0
IFAD Loan 131-ET                             0.3        0.7         1.0
IDA                                          2.1         4.9        7.0
OPEC                                         1.2         2.8        4.0
WFP                                          1.0         -           1.)
Government                                   6.4         -          6.4
Beneficiaries                                3.3        -           3.3
Total                                 18.1       15.6        33.7
8/ Guidelines on Expected Price Increases and Interest Rates, World Bank
OPN 3.11; Feb. 5, 1986;



- 25 -
The Program would be parallel financed by IFAD (IFAD-US$11.0 million, Loan
131-ET--US$1.0 million and WFP--US$1.0 million; total US$ 13.0 million) and
IDA (IDA--US$7.0 million and OPEC-US$4.0 million; total US$11.0 million).
OPEC funds would be jointly financed with, and administered by, IDA and it
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit that the OPEC Loan,
IFAD Loan, and WFP Grant have been declared effective. Funds from the
financing donors would be applied in the following manner:
Total Project   Financed    Loan/
Cost         by         Credit
--      - US  Million -
(a) Small-scale Irrigation
National Support                           3.4          IFAD        3.0
Zonal Support                              2.2          IDA         1.5
Agricultural  Support Services             2.6          IDA         2.0
Scheme Construction                       13.5          IFAD        8.3
Sub-total                            21.7                     14.8
(b) Conservation & Agricultural Support
National Conservation Support Unit         1.5          IDA         1.2
Conservation Based Agronomic Trials        1.4          IFAD        0.8
Bund Stabilization                         1.0          IDA         0.8
Extension,                                 5.7          IDA         4.5
Rural Women's Development Support          1.0          IFAD        0.9
Sub-total                            10.6                      8.2
(c)  Monitoring and Evaluation                  1.4          IDA          1.0
Total                                     33.7                     24.0
3.22      The total foreign assistance of US$24 million would cover 71% of
the total project cost, including 100% of the foreign cost and 46% of the
local cost excluding taxes and duties. Most of the foreign assistance
would be passed on by GOSE to MOA as a grant. However, US$0.6 million of
the proposed IFAD loan would be passed on by GOSE to AIDB as a grant and
US$0.3 million would be onlent by GOSE to AIDB on terms and conditions to
be agreed by IFAD and IDA with GOSE (para. 4.09) for Rural Women's
Development Support. US$1 million equivalent of the ongoing IFAD Loan
131-ET would also be onlent by GOSE to AIDB under terms and conditions of
that Loan, for small-scale irrigation development. If this lending proves
successful, a further amount from the proposed IFAD Loan may be onlent for
the same purpose, on terms and conditions to be agreed by IFAD and IDA with
GOSE.
E. Procurement
3.23      All procurement of the components to be financed by IDA and OPEC
shall be in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement, for components to
be financed by IFAD, shall be in accordance with IFAD procurement
guidelines except that only Developing Member States and those member
states of the Fund, as shall have deposited instruments of contribution to



- 26 -
the Special Resources for Sub-Saharan Africa, prior to the date the
contract is issued for tender, shall be Eligible Territories for
procurement purposes. Under this provision the following procedures will
operate. Procurement of heavy construction equipment amounting to about
US$850,000 and of two prefabricated houses amounting to about US$80,000,
would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB). Vehicles,
spare parts, motorcycles, office equipment and materials would be grouped
into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more when possible, to be procured
under ICB procedures. For contracts of those goods valued more than
US$20,000 and less than US$100,000, local competitive bidding (LCB) in
which foreign firms could participate, would be used. With regard to
procurement of goods under ICB procedures, qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference on bid evaluation of 15% of the
CIF price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes
whichever is lower. Some equipment or tools may need to be procured
directly from manufacturers after obtaining quotations from at least three
qualified manufacturers. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$20,000 each and needed urgently for Program execution, would be purchased
by "prudent shopping" with at least three price quotations. The total
value of items purchased this way should not exceed US$0.5 million without
prior IFAD/IDA agreement.
3.24      Contracts for civil works would not be suitable for ICB because
the work would be done in dispersed locations and would be too small to
attract international interest. These contracts would, therefore, be
awarded following local competitive bidding (LCB). The LCB procedures and
the "Instruction to Bidders" documents have been reviewed during appraisal
and found to be adequate. Irrigation works construction would be carried
out by IDD through force account, or where possible, by small contractors
whose contracts would be awarded following local competitive bidding or, in
the case of very small contracts, according to negotiated contracts with
groups of skilled workers.
3.25      Consultant services would be procured according to IFAD/IDA
guidelines. Internationally recruited technical assistance staff would,
wherever practical, be grouped into teams and procured through consulting
firms acceptable to GOSE and IFAD/IDA. Overseas training would be subject
to IFAD/IDA approval. For all civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000
and for purchases of equipment and supplies exceeding US$100,000, proposals
for advertising, draft tender documents, bid evaluations and award
proposals would be sent to IFAD/IDA for review before contract award. An
estimated 50% of total contract value would require such review
procedures. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award
reviews. Two copies of all contracts whether subject to pre-award reviews
or not would be sent to IFAD/IDA prior to submission of the first
withdrawal application. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
procurement procedures described would be observed. The following table
summarizes procurement methods for different project elements:



- 27 -
Procurement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Project Element          ICB        LCB       Other          NA      Total
Civil Works             0.10        1.00                              1.10
(0.10) b/  (0.10) a/                         (0.90)
(0.70) hI
Vehicles                1.50                                          1.50
(0.60) a/                                    (1.50)
(0.90) b/
Equipment &             1.50                   1.00                  2.50
Furniture              (0.80) a/              (0.60)a/              (2.20)
(0.60) b/              (0.20)b/
Material                                       2.00                   2.00
(1.10) a/             (1.10)
T.A. & Training                                9.40                  9.40
(4.15)a/              (9.40)
(5.25)b/
Skilled Labor                                              1.80      1.80
(O.90)a/  (0.90)
Unskilled Labor                                            4.50      4.50
(1.00)c/  (1.00)
Women's Credit                                             0.30      0.30
(0.30)a/  (0.30)
Construction and
Operating Cost                                          2.20      2.20
(1.10)a/  (1.10)
Incremental                                                8.40      8.40
Recurrent Cost                                         (1.40)W/  (4.60)
(3.20)b/
Total                3.10       1.00       12.40      17.20      33.70
(1.40)a/   (0.10)a/   (5.85)a/   (3.70)a/ (23.00)d/
(1.60)bE/   (0.70)'E/   (5.45)-6/   (3.20)-b/
(1.00)c/
a/ Financed by IFAD
b/ Financed by IDA including OPEC
c/ Financed by WFP
d/ US$1 million from Loan 131-ET not included since its
procurement procedure is different.
F. Disbursement
3.26      Disbursement from the US$22 million (excluding US$1 million from
Loan 131-ET which has a different disbursement procedure and US$1 million
from WPF which is a grant) would cover:



- 2 -
(a) 80X of the cost of civil works;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditure of vehicles, equipment, furniture
and material, if directly imported, 100% of er-factory price if
manufactured locally, and 60% of the cost of other locally
procured items;
(c) 1001 of the TA and training costs;
(d) 75X of the Rural Womens' credit;
(e) 701 of the cost of skilled labor, materials and construction
operatlng costs; and
(f) reducing percentages of staff salaries and operating costs
(excluding unskilled labor) as follows: 751 of the first US$3
million of the costs, 55% of the next US$2.5 million, and 351 of
US$2.90 million balance of the cost.
3.27      Disbursements would be fully documented except for disbursements
against small contracts, purchase orders and operating costs of less than
US$80,000 equivalent where certified statements of expenditures (SOE) would
be used. SOB would be certified by the heads of participating national
agencies, the General Managers of the relevant MOA Zonal Offices and the
General Manager of AIDB. Supporting documentation would be retained by the
relevant Zonal Offices, National Offices and AIDB and would be made
available for scrutiny during the course of Programs supervision missions.
To reduce the number of applications to be sent to the Bank, the number of
payments to be made by IFAD and the budget provision that GOSE would need
to make for the Program, two Foreign Exchange Special Accounts of US$0.75
million each would be established and maintained with a commercial bank
authorized to deal in foreign currencies or with the Central Bank. One of
these accounts would be funded by IFAD for expenditures to be financed by
IFAD and the other by IDA for Program components to be supported by IDA
(para. 3.21). The US$1.5 million total of both funds corresponds to about
four months of expenditures.
3.28      The Program is to be completed over six years by June 30, 1993,
and a schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements is shown in Annex I,
Table 2. Disbursement profiles show a nine-year disbursement period for
East African agricultural projects and ten years for all project types In
Ethiopia. The latter have been delayed by civil strife during the review
period. Measures to accelerate Program execution include appointment of
consultants to assist the conceraed agencies with construction and
equipment procurement and preparation of construction tenders. These
measures should allow Program completion over six years. The faster
build-up of disbursements than shown in the profiles is mainly due to the
plan to order most of the equipment and commission the construction program
early during the Program period that should result in fairly lumpy
disbursements rather earlier than shown in the profiles. The Closing Date
for withdrawals shall be December 31, 1993.



- 29 -
G. Accounts and Audit
3.29      All the participating departments of MOA at national level, zonal
General Managers of Asela and Harrar, and AIDB would maintain separate
records of Program expenditures in accordance with sound and generally
recognized accounting practices and principles. Each institution would
have the Program accounts including reimbursements made against SOE as well
as use of the Special Account audited by an independent auditor
satisfactory to IFAD and IDA. The audited accounts, including auditor's
reviews of SOE, would be sent to IFAD and IDA within six monthis after the
end of the Ethiopian fiscal year and not later than December 31 of each
calendar year. Assurances that the above accounting and auditing
procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.



- 30 -
IV. PROGRAM I14PLEHENTATION
A. Organization and Coordination
4.01      The Irrigation Development Department (IDD) under the Vice
Minister for Rural Infrastructure Development Main Department would be
responsible for the National Support component of the Small-Scale
Irrigation Subprogram and the Zonal Managers at Asela and Harrar for Zonal
Support and Scheme construction components, under the technical guidance of
IDD. AIDB would be responsible for the Scheme construction component where
credit would be utilized. The Community Forest and Soil Conservation
Development Department (CFSCDD) under the Vice-Minister for Natural
Resources and Conservation Development Department would be responsible for
the National Conservation Support Unit component of the Conservation and
Agricultural Support Subprogram.
4.02      The MOA General Manager in Asela would be responsible for the
agricultural support service for small-scale irrigation in Arsi/Bale under
technical guidance of the Agricultural Development Department (ADD), and
the General Manager in Harrar would be responsible for the (a) agricultural
support service for irrigation in Hararghe under the technical guidance of
ADD; (b) agricultural extension component under the technical guidance of
AED; (e) conservation based trials component under the technical guidance
of ADD; (d) bund stabilization component under the technical guidance of
AHFDD; and (e) rural women's development support component. In view of the
number of departments and agencies involved in the implementation of the
Program, a well functioning coordination mechanism would be needed.
4.03      Central Coordinating Committee.  Not later than August 31, 1987,
GOSE would establish a Central Coordinating Committee, to ensure smooth
coordination between the various departments. The members of the Committee
would be the Vice Minister for Rural Infrastructure Development, Main
Department (Chairman), the General Manager of AIDB, the MOA General
Managers for Arsi/Bale and Hararghe zones, and the MOA department heads of
IDD, AED, ADD, CFSCDD, AHFDD, and PPD. Assurances to that effect were
obtained at negotiations. The Committee would be responsible for (i) the
review and approval of annual work programs (Annex II), budgets, based on
the drafts prepared by the implementing departments and AIDB, and
operational policies; (ii) the review and approval of semiannual progress
reports prepared by the implementing departments and AIDB; and (iii)
coordination and cooperation between the implementing departments and
AIDB. The Committee would meet twice yearly or as circumstances require.
The Committee would be serviced by the Technical Support Unit of the
Planning and Programming Department (PPD) of MOA, and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the h,ead of that Unit would be appointed to
act as project coordinator.  The Unit would compile the necessary
documentation and budgets prepared by the implementing departments and
AIDB, as well as prepare minutes of the meetings and maintain basic
documents, progress reports and information on budgets and procurement.
The Project Coordinator would also be responsible for (a) operating the
special accounts, (b) coordinating disbursement and withdrawal
applications, and (c) assisting project agencies with procurement, and in



- 31 -
in general encouraging and helping the different project agencies to
overcome difficulties, particularly during the program startup period.
Particular care would be needed to coordinate the activities of IDD, ADD
and AED to provide the necessary agricultural support services for
irrigation development and rehabilitation (para. 3.08). The Committee may
need to establish a subcommittee, meeting more frequently, for that
purpose.
4.04      Zonal Coordination.  All MOA departments at zonal level are
responsible to and are coordinated by the MOA zonal General Manager. The
two zonal General Managers in Asela for Arsi/Bale and in Harrar for
Hararghe would therefore be responsible for project implementation and
coordination at zonal level. This arrangement would be adequate for Asela,
since the project is confined to small-scale irrigation and supporting
components. However, in Harrar, there would be four additional components
to implement involving altogether the banks and four MOA departments. Care
would be needed during implementation to ensure adequate coordination.
Establishment of a zonal committee of all implementing agencies and a full
time zonal coordinator may need to be considered in due course. In both
zones, the management would be responsible for (i) inter-departmental and
inter-agency coordination; (ii) review and adjustment of annual work
programs and budgets; (iii) review and coordination of material and
equipment procurement and consultant recruitment; and (iv) review of
progress and monitoring and evaluation reports and agreement on joint
actions as needed.
B. Implementation of the Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram
Irrigation Development Department
4.05      Following the decentralization of MOA in 1985, reconnaissance and
preparation work is being carried out by the Project Studies and
Preparation Division of IDD at headquarters. Designs are being prepared
with the assistance of technical staff from other departments, and in
consultation with the Water Resource Development Authority and expatriate
consultants at the headquarters. The responsibility for construction
activities has been transferred to the Irrigation Development Brigade at
the MOA Zonal Offices.It is planned to gradually transfer most activities
to the Zonal Offices and focus at headquarters on the formulation of policy
and strategy as well as program identification.
4.06      To guarantee maximum commitment and participation of the farmers
in the development and maintenance of the schemes, the program would adopt
the principle of farmer initiation as the basis of development. Assurances
that such principles would be observed were obtained at negotiations.
Assurances were also obtained that scheme selection would be according to
criteria agreed at negotiations and described in MAnex 3, Table 1. IDD
would be responsible for the identification and selection of irrigation
schemes in close contact with beneficiaries willing to contribute, MOA
field staff and AIDB where credit would be utilized. During preparation,
decisions would be made on the type of construction, the necessary
contribution of the beneficiarierJ, the timing of the works and the



- 32 -
financing arrangements. If so determined, IDD would provide designs,
supervision of rehabilitation and new construction, materials, equipment,
and skilled labor. Such supervision would also be provided where all works
would be built through self help. Interaction between institutions and
farmers' groups for small-scale irrigation development would take place at
various levels: (a) identification of projects by IDD in consultation with
PAs or groups of farmers and DAs; (b) technical assistance from IDD/AIDB
and self-help by farmers. Labor available for a family of one farmer, his
wife and one child is estimated to be 420 man-days per year. The labor
requirement for a 1.25 ha farm of which 1 ha is rainfed and 0.25 ha is
Irrigated and double cropped varies from 180 to 240 in different regions,
depending on cropping pattern.There would, therefore, be adequate labor
availability for execution of small-scale irrigation schemes.
Scheme Construction
4.07      US$13.5 million for scheme construction includes US$3.3 million
to be contributed by beneficiaries, US$1.9 million by GOSE, US$6.3 million
by IFAD, from the proposed loan, US$1 million by WFP for payment to
unskilled laborers for construction of access roads and US$1 million from
Loan 131-ET for credit by AIDB to farmers for financing irrigation works.
The latter funding would explore the effectiveness of credit for funding
the construction program, side by side with direct funding for the same
purpose by MOA, through IDD. If successful, more IFAD loan funds could be
channelled through AIDB to expand the credit operation (para. 4.09). The
Program target is to construct or improve 4,400 ha of small-scale
irrigation schemes. Of these, 1,650 ha would be new schemes and 2,750 ha
would entail rehabilitation of existing schemes. The total consists of
about 1,150 ha micro schemes (up to 5 ha each), about 2,000 ha medium
schemes (6-30 ha each) and about 1,250 ha larger schemes (31-200 ha
each). The micro and medium schemes would not require much design work and
the construction of irrigation schemes has been phased in such a way that a
few larger schemes would be implemented in early years (Annex III, Table
2). AIDB would handle mostly micro and medium schemes which do not require
sophisticated design, equipment or much skilled labor. IDD and AIDB would
agree on geographic areas in which minor irrigation development would be
financed by AIDB only and others where financing would only be by MOA
finance. The delineation of these areas could be revised during the
mid-term review.
Irrilation Imprest Accounts
4.08      To implement the small-scale irrigation program expeditiously,
some funds would need to be available at regional level for purchase of
materials and payment of skilled labor. For that purpose, MOA would
initially deposit Birr 200,000 from the Special Account to be established
(para. 3.27) into an imprest account in the Asela Regional CBE. The head
of the zonal IDD could draw funds from this account, for financing eligible
categories of irrigation investments in designated awrajas. When
irrigation development under the Program becomes operational in Hararghe
and Sidamo, similar arrangements would be made, authorizing the respective
zonal IDD heads to draw Special Account funds through an imprest account In
one branch in each region. When an account has been drawn down from Birr
200,000 to Birr 100,000 it would be replenished from the Special Account



33 -
against full documentation of expenditures incurred. Accounts in each
Zonal Office would fully document the use of Special Account funds, and
would be subject to MOA financial audit, monitoring and evaluation and IFAD
supervision.
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
4.09      As indicated (para. 4.07), funds from Loan 131-ET would be used
to explore the role of credit in financing the small-scale irrigation
program. Expansion of that role would depend on the results of this
operation and on agreement by IFAD with GOSE on mutually satisfactory
onlending terms and conditions. Since Prograt appraisal, the Government
has lowered interest rates for agricultural lending, but the revision does
not apply to lending supported by ongoing IPAD loans. The onlending terms
and conditiuns would form part of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
concluded between GOSE and AIDB, under which GOSE would pass on to AIDB, a
US$600,000 grant for institutional support, in addition to onlending US$0.3
million for women's rural income generating micro projects (para. 4.18) and
additional amounts to be determined later, for funding irrigation
development. The completion of this agreement, satisfactory to IFAD,
would be a condition of disbursement of the credit component. Guidelines
for the content of the Agreement are given in Annex VI. It would also be a
condition of disbursement of that component that US$1 million of the Loan
131-ET miscellaneous category would have been fully committed for
small-scale irrigation lending. To monitor the appropriateness of the
interest rate to be applied, it was agreed at negotiations that AIDB will
review the interest rate with IFAD during the mid-term Program review
(para. 4.21), and GOSE will take necessary measures to ensure that the
interest rates are appropriate.
4.10      Close AIDB/IDD collaboration would be crucial.  Consequently,
AIDB would also conclude a Cooperation Agreement with MOA for implementing
the credit component. Under this agreement, IDD would, inter alia, (i)
identify prospective borrowers, assist with the preparation of schemes
(especially the technical aspects); (ii) establish the connection between
AIDB and the sub-borrower; (iii) supervise technical aspects of subprogram
implementation; and (iv) agree with AIDB on the geographic areas where AIDB
would target its funds (para. 4.07). At the zonal level, AIDB would
establish mobile bank teams, consisting of loan officers, as and when
needed to (a) help SCs in assuming responsibility as credit intermediary;
(b) appraise the schemes, based on cost estimates prepared by IDD; and (c)
assume responsibility for follow up, loan administration and collection.
To improve effectiveness cf AIDB staff, assurances were obtained that
mobile bank teams will be formed. IDD would be responsible for the
technical aspects, while AIDB would be responsible for the financial
aspects and bear the credit risk on subloans for individual irrigation
schemes. Overall responsibility for schemes appraisal would rest with
AIDB. Completion of the Cooperation Agreement (see Annex VI) satisfactory
to IFAD, would be a condition of disbursement of the credit component.
Irrigation Cost Recovev
4.11      ODSE accepts in principle the desirability of introducing a
system of cost recovery for irrigation development, but has not yet
formulated a policy for that purpose. GOSE indicated, during negotiations,



!0 1 v ' ! '                       - ~~~~~~34-
. o  e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  a
5,~~~~~~~~~~                       j4 
that it wouid initiate a study to explore the issues related to and collect
data needed for formulating such a policy; and provide the study to IFAD
and IDA tor review.  The study would, inter alia, explore sector-wide
applicability of Irrigation cost recovery, irrespective of sources of
funds; the method and level of cost recovery; and the compatibility of cost
recbVe'ry between beneficiaries of MOA financed schemes and those who have
obtained credit to help them to develop irrigation.
*.gricultural Support Services
4.12      The Program would support the development of expertise in
irrigated agriculture wlthin the structure of a strengthened extension
model, including (a) training irrigation SMSs at Zonal and Awraja levels;
(b) direct training of a limited number of DAs in the initial months of
Program operations to ensure the presence of trained extension agents at
scheme level; (c) preparing training materials (manuals, etc.).  Extension
packages on irrigated agriculture would be taught in monthly training
meetings of DAs by Awraja SMS (Irrigation Agronomist).  At scheme level,
the DAs' tasks would include Identification of farmers requirements;
discussion with them of cropping patterns proposed; advice on land
preparation and cultivation techniques; assistance in on-farm planning;
training of farmers in water scheduling and application; identification of
specialized support requirements (e.g., for soil conservation, disease
control) from higher levels; and coordination, through higher levels, of
local Irrigated production planning, to avoid local market gluts in
vegetable production.
C.  Implementation of the Conservation and Agricultural Support Subprogram
Community Forest and Soil Conservation Development Department
4.13      The CFSCDD has been the only agency until now which has
Implemented the huge soil conservation construction program with support
from the World Food Program. It achieved an impressive amount of work,
created a national awareness of the problems of land degradation and laid
the foundation for biological soil conservation. The CFSCDD has developed
'simplified designs and specifications which have been widely applied:
bunds, stone walls, terraces, cutoff dams, etc. CFSCDD has been criticized
recently because of its focus on physical structures, and is fully aware of
the needs to broaden the approach to conservation through inclusion of
biological soil conservation. It requested IFAD to assist in a study of
ttaditional conservation measures used by Ethiopian farmers, and in
developing a national strategy for conservation.
4.14      Conservation Based Agronomic Trials.  The proposed conservation
based agronomic trials would be implemented within the framework of the
existing National Field Trials Program being cArried out by ADD. Technical
+evice unlts from each MOA department involved--ADD, CFSCDD and AHFDD--and
Aler*aya Agricultural University would collaborate in the Hararghe
Ctneervation Agriculture Unit to plan, coordinate, supervise and evaluate
the operatlon of the conservation based agronomic trials (Annex IVa, Chart



- 35 -
I).    The objectives of these trials are to determine the biological soil
conservation measures such as strip cropping, alley cropping,
intercropping, agronomic practices, to prevent erosion and to raise
productivity under different slope, rainfall and soil conditions. The
Hararghe zonal coordinator of the National Trial Program would be
responsible for the supervision of the trials, and site managers would be
employed for the field operations of each conservation based agronomic
trial site. Soil and water conservation practices found promising on the
trial sites would be validated in onfarm application under farmer
conditions. Technologies which are validated in on-farm trials would be
demonstrated in Farmer's Demonstration Plots and included in the technical
packages disseminated through the extension program (Annex V, Chart 2).
Annual conservation trial programs should be prepared by ADD for the coming
years not later than December 31 each year. Sufficient land should be made
available "or the trial program at least six months before the sowing
season. An internationally recruited soil conservation agronomist hired
under IFAD's Special Operational Facility would, inter alia, help to design
the trial program.
4.15      Agricultural Extension.  The extension service would be
reorganized to provide more systematic and regular extension visits to SCs
and PAs by better trained and equipped DAs. Concepts of the T&V system
would be used but adopted to Ethiopian conditions, especially to a
relatively low DA:farmer ratio in the immediate future. Each DA would be
based at a SC. The DAs would meet once every four weeks with farmer groups
and individual contact farmers. Each DA would service 3-5 PAs with a total
of 1,200-1,700 farmers. Assurances for the introduction of the T&V
extension system were obtained at negotiations. Agreement was also reached
on adequate staffing of the extension service. A total of 22 of the medium
to higher potential Woredas of Hararghe Zone with all weather road access
would be covered during the six years Program period. Two would be under
the Fourth Livestock Project, financed by IDA, and the other 20 under the
Special Country Program phased over three years. The list of the Woredas
to receive support was agreed by GOSE during the appraisal and is contained
in Annex I, Table 6 (c). In each Woreda 10-12 DAs would be employed,
supervised by a Woreda coordinator. Training of DAs would be conducted one
day every four weeks by Awraja SMSs, who would, in turn, receive monthly
training from Zonal technical staff who would attend regular workshops
organized by Alemaya University of Agriculture. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Hararghe zonal menagement would organize adequate
training programs for zonal and Awraja technical staff that would be
conducted in cooperation with Alemaya University. All aspects of staff and
farmer training would be greatly strengthened under the Program (Annex V).
The zonal extension division head would be the Extension Coordinator, who
through the zonal CPADD head, would report to the MOA General Manager in
Hararghe. The team leaders of MOA Woreda and Awraja offices would be
designated as Extension Coordinators to coordinate extension activities in
their jurisdictions. Awraja level Agronomist, Plant Protectionist, Animal
Scientist, Veterinary Specialist, and Soil and Water Conservation
Specialist would act as SMSs (Annex V, Tables 4 and 5). The T&V system
would establish close interaction between farmers, extension services and
research.



- 36 -
4.16      Extension Package and Input SuPlPY.  From a review of current
recommendations (AIJA, IAR and MOA) and the results of field trials (Annex
V, Table 2), it is clear that the major constituent of any extension
package is fertilizer. Large increases in yield can also be achieved
utilizing Improved crop management techniques such as improved seed (Annex
V, Table 1) proper planting date, seeding rates, and weed control. Program
supported conservation based agronomic trials and Irrigation experiments by
IAR should make new recommendations available for inclusion in extension
packages from time to time with the first results expected after three
years. Total requirement of seeds and fertilizer for the irrigated area of
4,400 ha and rainfed area of about 200,000 ha Is small compared to the
availability in the country.
4.17      Bund Stabilization.  The bund stabilization component comprising
the establishment of nurseries for grasses and forage species would be
implemented by the Zonal AHFDD which currently has taken over the
responsibility for such works under the WFP from CFSCDD. Earlier WFP bund
stabilization programs under CFSCDD failed because of (a) limited
experience of suitability of different grass species, particularly exotic
varieties, to widely varying site conditions; (b) most soil conservation
technicians had little agronomic expertise, which resulted in untimely
planting, poor planting technique, poor supervision and management of
nurseries, leading to poor seed quality. Consequently, during the
appraisal by IDA of the Fourth Livestock Project during March 1986, CFSCDD
agreed to hand over responsibility for managing grass and forage nurseries
to AHFDD, which has qualified staff for that purpose. The team leader of
the zonal AHPDD* assisted by conservation agronomists, would be directly
responsible for implementation. At Awraja level, three additional
conservation agronomist technicians would oversee field activities,
including the seed multiplication nurseries, farmer training and
distribution of planting material to individual farmers, for further
multiplication and planting.
4.18      Rural Women Develo !ent Su port.  The zonal head of the Rural
Women Team (RWT) would be, under the overall supervision of the MOA General.
Manager, responsible for the implementation of the component. RWT agents,
In collaboration with DAs and SMSe (Horticulture) would, together with the
women of villages, select suitable areas for irrigated vegetable gardens
and assist in introducing appropriate cultivation techniques and teaching
women how to improve family nutrition and diet with the vegetables. An
AIDB loan officer would be responsible for the Women's Rural Development
credit line at the Dire Dawa branch office, appraising and supervising
projects Identified by RWT agents, in collaboration with specialists in the
relevant fields.
D. Annual Work Programs
4.19      Annual work programs would be prepared by MOA and AIDB, which
would Include: (i) a review of Program implementation in the current year;
(ii) detailed description of the work to be carried out In the forthcoming
year, including objectives, deployment of staff and equipment; (iti)
requirements for additional staff, equipment and Inputs; and (iv) a budget



- 37 -
and a financing plan, including foreign and local funds required from
GOSE. The annual work programs would enable GOSE to review Program
progress and provide the necessary support needed for implementation. For
Program Year 1, preparation of the work program for review by IFAD and IDA
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. For the following years, the
draft program would be submitted to the Government by March 15, after a
review of the plans by the Regional and Central Coordinating Committees,
and to IFAD/IDA by April 15 each year for review. The final program,
embodying IFAD/IDA comments, would be resubmitted to IFAD/IDA by June 30.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government during
negotiations.
E. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      The Planning and Programming Departments of MOA and AIDB would
prepare quarterly progress reports on physical and financial progress in a
format acceptable to IFAD. The reports would reach IPAD not later than two
months after the end of the reporting period. The first report would be
due four months after loan signing. Monitoring the progress of physical
implementation such as procurement, construction, staff employment,
training and program expenditures on each category would be recorded
through the quarterly reports.  Monitoring Program implementation and the
final evaluation of the program would be facilitated by the annual work
programs.  Longer term benefits from trials, extension and soil
conservation would be difficult to quantify during the relatively short
implementation period.  Special studies to be carried out under the Program
would allow an assessment of the impact of the relevant activities on
production, employment, income, etc. Within six months of completion of
the Program, MOA would prepare a Program Completion Report (PCR) acceptable
to IFAD/IDA that would deal with all aspects of the Program, including the
achievements of the implementing agencies, Program beneficiaries and
lessons learned from the Program. AIDB would prepare a separate report on
its activities for integration by MOA into the overall PCR. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the reporting and monitoring and
evaluation procedures outlined would be implemented.
F. Mid-Term Review
4.21      Experience gained with previous projects in Ethiopia, especially
MPP II, has confirmed the value of a formal mid-term review of the
implementation process and a preliminary evaluation of its impact. Such a
procedure facilitated a constructive dialogue between GOSE and donors and
led to improvement in the orientation of the various activities.
Accordingly, GOSE would, not later than 30 months from the date of loan
effectiveness, prepare a mid-term review report in accordance with terms of
reference prepared in consultation with IFAD and IDA, and review the
findings with IFAD and IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. The mid-term review report would, among other things,
examine the constraints which may have affected or affect Program
implementation. Special importance would be given to an assessment of the



- 38 -
financing arrangements for irrigation investments and cost recovery aspects
and the appropriateness of the credit interest rate charged by AIDB (para.
4.09). Based on the experience with the performance of the AIDB credit
mechanism compared to MOA direct financing of irrigation works
construction, the respective roles of these two methods of funding
construction during the second half of the Program implementation period
would be agreed between GOSE, IFAD and IDA. The remaining investment
program and its scope would also be reviewed. GOSE, IFAD and IDA plan, not
later than 33 months from the date of loan effectiveness, to conduct a
joint follow-up to the review, including field visits if required, to
determine what changes, if any, would be needed to improve the Program
impact during the remainder of the implementation period.
G. Status of Program Preparation
4.22      To facilitate the expeditious start of the Program, several
studies and preparatory activities are being financed separately under
IFAD's Special Operational Facility from September, 1986 such as: (a)
study of irrigation cost recovery and water charges; (b) study of
traditional irrigation system organization; (c) study of vegetable
marketing; (d) study of tra!itional soil conservation measures; and (e)
preparation of the conservation based agricultural trials program.
Terms of reference have been prepared for major TA components requiring
consultant services. Bidding documents for irrigation equipment and
machinery are under preparation. All the Woredas, where the modified
Training and Visit System of extension would be introduced in phases, have
been identified, of which two, financed by IDA under the Fourth Livestock
Project, would have the T&V system from the first year. All Program
activities would be carried out by existing MOA and AIDB departments and
essential staff are in position. Additional manpower needed to strengthen
the Institutions and to act as counterparts to consultants are locally
available.



- 39 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARXETING AND PRICES
A. Agricultural Production
5.01      Under the Program, a total of 4,400 ha of irrigated area would be
developed. About 18,000 farmers would benefit from the development of
irrigation assuming that each beneficiary farmer holding on average 1.25 ha
would have 0.25 ha irrigated under the Program and the remaining 1 ha
rainfed. Irrigation would have a positive impact on cropping patterns and
per hectare yields.  Under irrigated conditions, the most dominant cereal
crops would be wheat in Bale and Arsi and maize and sorghum in Hararghe.
Tef, barley and oats currently cultivated in lands under rainfed conditions
would gradually phase out when these lands come under irrigation since
wheat, maize and sorghum are more responsive to irrigation than other
cereals. Oilseeds, which give good returns, are likely to replace the less
profitable pulses in irrigated areas. In addition, over the six-year
Program period, the use of irrigation, improved varieties, fertilizer and
proper cultural practices, should double or treble wheat, maize and sorghum
yields presently obtained under rainfed conditions. Likewise, yields per
ha of vegetables with proper use of fertilizers and cultural practices are
also expected to be more than double the current yields per ha. The
support provided to strengthen extension in Hararghe is expected to
increase yields per ha in rainfed areas by 20% during the six year Program
development period. Three farm models for 1.25 ha holdings without Program
and with Program at full development for Bale and Sidamo, Arsi, and
Hararghe in Annex I, Tables 7(a), (b) and (c), respectively, show changes
in cropping pattern and increase in production resulting in nearly doubling
of net value of crops. Annex I, Table 6(b), summarizes the expected
production without Program and with Program at full development assuming
double cropping of the irrigated area of the 18,000 beneficiaries.
Anticipated incremental production due to the Program at full development
is about 21,500 tons of cereals and 11,250 tons of vegetables.
B. Marketing and Prices
Marketing
5.02      Cereals.  Ethiopia has been a net importer of cereals since 1976,
at an increasing rate. Although the commercial imports are estimated to
amount to only about 20% of the total marketed quantity, it is most likely
that Ethiopia will remain a cereal importer in the foreseeable future. The
Program area has been selected as an area where deficits can be expected
regularly. Thus, the incremental production of around 21,500 tons at full
development is expected to be absorbed within the Program area. For the
country, it would result in a modest substitution of necessary imports.
5.03      Vegetables.  Production under the Program from Hararghe would
mostly be exported to Djibouti, a traditional market for Hararghe
vegetables. Most vegetables produced in the rest of the Program area would
be marketed locally and consumed in the Program area. Demand for



- 40 -
vegetables is increasing at: (a) farmers level; (b) local village market;
(c) provincial capital markets; and (d) Addis Ababa. Droughts caused a
change in dieting habits from cereals to vegetables particularly potatoes.
Consumption of vegetables would be promoted through the Women's Development
Support component of the Program.
Prices
5.04      Cereals.  Of the annual average net grain production in Ethiopia,
about 5.1 million tons, 16% or about 0.8 million tons are marketed. About
one-third of the marketable surplus is currently sold to the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC) at low fixed quota prices which are only 40% to
50 of the free market prices. The balance of about 2/3 is sold in the
open market. The artificially depressed producer prices can be
demonstrated using wheat as an example. Assuming that the import parity
farmgate price for wheat is about Birr 70/quintal, the AMC quota price is
about Birr 30/quintal and the free market price is about Birr 70/quintal.
On average, the peasant farmer receives about two thirds of the import
parity price [Annex I, Table 5(a)l.
5.05      Vegetables.  Vegetable production and marketing is unrestricted.
All quantities produced are sold on the free market at reasonable prices.



- 41 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Program Benefits
6.01      The Program would make an important contribution to GOSE efforts
to increase the agricultural production by developing the irrigation
potential and providing extension messages to farmers which would improve
the utilization of irrigation water. The main quantifiable benefits
stemming from the Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram would be an increase in
the production of crops and vegetables of about 18,000 beneficiary farmers
on an irrigated area of about 4,400 ha and rainfed area of about 18,000 ha
held by the beneficiaries. The Incremental annual production of cereals
would reduce cereal imports needed for human consumption, thus leading to
savings in foreign exchange. The incremental annual production of
vegetables would contribute considerably to satisfying the increasing
demand mostly on local markets. The incremental production would be valued
at about Birr 1,850/ha on the irrigated land when single cropped and about
Birr 110/ha on the rainfed area, in total worth about Birr 10.0 million
(US$4.8 million) annually in economic prices. It is expected that peasants
would gradually double crop all irrigated areas and with more efficient
extension service continue to increase both the quantity And value of
production.  The net income from 1.25 ha of land out of mtich 0.25 ha would
be irrigated and ultimately double cropped at full development, would
increase to about Birr 2,600 or $1,250 i.e. about $200 per capita assuming
a family of six. Compared with the absolute poverty Income level estimated
for the rural population at about US$65 per capita, the beneficiaries would
substantially improve their economic situation.
6.02      The direct benefits accruing to the Conservation and Agricultural
Support Subprogram focussing on Hararghe are more difficult to estimate;
however, it is possible for two of the smaller components of the Subprogram
to clearly indicate the beneficiaries. Bund Stabilization through grassing
representing 9,500 ha of bunds or about 3X of the cultivated area in
Hararghe would directly benefit about 50,000 to 100,000 families, depending
on the proportion of a family's holding that receives treatment. The
treatment would improve the grass coverage on the bunds which would greatly
reduce the maintenance requirements and at the same time would, through in-
troduction of more productive and nutritious grasses and legumes, improve
the fodder available to livestock. Rural Women's Development Support,
would help 370 women establish small household vegetable plots. The return
from these plots, while intended primarily to supplement the family diet to
improve nutrition, would give a value in vegetable production equivalent to
about Birr 140 (US$68) per plot per year.
6.03      The National Conservation Support Unit, and Conservation Based
Agronomic Trials have no directly measurable benefits nor easily quantified
numbers of beneficiaries. Rather, the benefits from the two components
would be realized through the extension service. The trials program would,
however, have demonstration effects for the farmers in the vicinity of the
trial sites, especially those adjacent to on-farm trials. The support to
the extension service in Rararghe would cover 22 of the total of 41
woredas. Assuming that the total membership of service cooperatives
covered would benefit directly or indirectly from improved and expanded



- 42 -
extension, over 300,C00 families would benefit, equivalent to 1.5 million
people.
B. Environmental Impact
6.04      The Program would have no negative, rather a lasting positive,
environmental impact. The Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram, through
improved water use management, would increase irrigated areas and crop
production; and through the necessary land levelling and or terracing,
contribute to soil and water conservation. The conservation based trials
would produce agricultural packages integrating structural soil
conservation with biological soil conservation measures which would be
disseminated by the extension service. The Program aims to correct
imbalances in the present conservation approach, which have (i) too much
emphasis on curative conservation, not enough on preventive; (Hi) too much
emphasis on work in degraded and food deficit areas, not enough in high
potential and food surplus areas; and (iii) too much emphasis on the
top-down approach with targets and quotas handed down, not enough
involvement of the farmers themselves from the beginning. A long-term
sustained national conservation program can only be effective if it is
supported by the farming community, and this will only happen if the
farmers believe that such program will be of benefit to them. The
Subprogram would, over the long term, make a major contribution to (a)
stabilization; (b) in some regions, improvements of those areas already in
advanced stages of degradation; and (c) prevention of other areas from
being eroded. This would be done on a sustainable basis as it would be the
farmers themselves who would initiate the development and therefore, be
involved in sustaining it through conservation priorities that would
generate improved levels of production.
C. Economic Evaluation
6.05      The Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram.  For the economic analysis
of this subprogram, single cropping of irrigated areas has been assumed.
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Program over 30 years based on
1986 constant prices is estimated at 19%. Basic assumptions for the
economic evaluation are in Appendix 1, Table 3(a). Program costs are net
of taxes, duties and other transfer payments but include physical
contingencies. The cost of replacement of capital items after the Loan
disbursement period averaging annually about Birr 600,000 in economic
prices over 24 years has been included in the cost stream.
6.06      Conservation and Agricultural Support Subprogram.  For extension
or research activities, it is difficult and not very meaningful to attempt
to calculate an internal rate of return because their benefits are
difficult to measure due to a number of factors among which the two most
important are: first, the influence of many elements on increased yields
of which extension advice while being one of the major influences is
difficult to distinguish from the others; and second, the long gestation
period before certain benefits would be evident, which is particularly true



- 43 -
in terms of higher crop yields arising from improved soil conservation
measures. Nevertheless, it is possible to indicate the economic
contributions of the subprogram to Ethiopia. The incremental economic
costs of the subprogram taken over the life of the program (assumed to be
25 years for the economic analysis), are estimated to be Birr 50.1 million
(US$24.2 million). To give an economic internal rate of return of 15%,
incremental benefits totalling Birr 56,2 million (US$27.1 million) would
have to be generated [Annex I, Table 3(c)] equivalent to 128,000 tons of
sorghum valued at the import parity price of Birr 440/ton. This rate of
return would require an annual incremental production of two percent. As
these benefits would result from both improved cultivation practices and
better soil and water conservation, the two percent increase in yields
should be readily achieved if not surpassed.
D. Program Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.07      For the Small-Scale Irrigation Subprogram, the financing
mechanisms of both IDD and AIDB have been carefully analyzed and designed.
Nevertheless, there may be a delay in making the funding mechanism
operative. The Conservation and Agricultural Support Subprogram depends
greatly on the expeditious implementation of the agricultural trial program
and the employment of an adequate number of staff, including DAs which
would be financed under the Program on a declining scale. In addition,
lack of institutional strength and experience may pose a risk to all
subprograms, particularly during the early implementation stage. Measures
against such risks are provisions to bring about an expeditious Program
start (paras. 1.36, 4.14, 4.22), strong institution building (paras. 3.06,
3.07, 3.08, 3.12, 3.14, 3.15, 3.16) and preparation of annual work programs
(para. 4.19). The risk of the extension component yielding little benefit
due to unsatisfactory pricing and marketing policies is not serious because
of extensive access to the free market, particularly vegetables.
Furthermore, apart from supporting production components, extension is
badly needed to introduce improved soil conservation methods in the steep
Hararghe highlands, exposed to serious erosion hazards. However, relevant
technology for this purpose will only be generated in two or three years
time by the trials program. The extension staff build-up has been phased
accordingly to avoid the risk of wasting staff resources. Overall, given
the prevailing Ethiopian environment, the risks for the proposed Program
are considered low, and given the potential benefits, well justifiable.
6.08      Sensitivity analysis of the Irrigation Subprogram was undertaken
to evaluate the impact of adverse factors on the economic rate of return
obtained under the base case. Numerical results are presented in Annex I,
Table 3 which indicate that the subprogram is quite resilient to possible
risks. The ERR would be about 9% if benefits were to decrease by 20% and
if cost were to increase by 50%. The Subprogram is not very sensitive to
delays: a delay of one year would reduse the ERR to 17%; a delay of three
years to 13%.
Government Cash Flow (Annex I, Table 4)
6.09      Government would finance about US$6.5 million or about 19% of
Program costs and the value of the beneficiaries contribution as unskilled
labor would amount to about  ,$3.2 million or 10%.  After the investment



- 44 -
period st.arting year 7, Government would provide for the replacement of
vehicles, machinery and equipment amounting on average to Birr 900,000
annually.
6.10      The cash flow would be negative through the entire period.  This
is due to Government's contribution to the Program during the investment
period. In late years, the negative balance of about Birr 1.1 million is
small c mpared to the benefite both in irrigated and rainfed production.
No mate charges have been included in the cash flow projection (Annex 1,
Table 4    In the event water charges would be introduced, the negative
balance    the cash flow would Improve.



- 45 -
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Assurances
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   Qualified counterpart staff would be employed for all
consultants, and incremental staff recruited well in advance of
the relevant Program activities. Staff receiving overseas
training would be required to serve on Program activities for not
less than two years following their overseas training (para.
3.06);
(b)   The ProJect £tudies and Preparation Division of IDD would, by
August 31, 1987, be adequately strengthened to undertake the
tasks described in this para (para. 3.06);
(c)   vehicles provided would oe for the exclusive use of Program
activities and marked appropriately (para. 3.07);
(d)   IDD would, by December 31, 1987, establish the necessary support
units for planning, design, technical support and supervision of
rehabilitation and construction of irrigation schemes under the
Project (para. 3.07);
(e)   Allocation of investment funds for irrigation to PCs would be in
in accordance with criteria acceptable to IFAD and GOSE (para.
3.10);
(f)   A Rural Women Credit Facility be established under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IFAD (para. 3.16);
(g)   GOSE would cause MOA and AIDB to follow the procurement
procedures outlined in paras. 3.23-3.25;
(h)   MOA and AIDB would comply with the accounting and auditing
procedures outlined in para. 3.29;
(i)   GOSE would establish a Central Coordinating Committee not later
than August 31, 1987, and appoint the head of the Technical
Support Unit of MOA to be the project coordinator (para. 4.03);
(j)   Farmer initiation and criteria listed in Annex 3, Table 1 would
be adopted as a basis for selecting small-scale irrigation
schemes to be financed by this Program (para. 4.06);
(k)   AIDB would establish mobile bank teams (para. 4.10);
(1)   MOA would introduce the T&V extension system in Hararghe; and the
Hararghe zonal management would organize training programs for
zonal and Awraja technical staff that would be conducted in
cooperation with Almaya University (parja  44.5);



- 46 -
(m)   MOA and AIDB would prepare draft annual work programs and submit
them to IFAD/IDA for review by April 15 each year and submit the
final program to IFAD/IDA by June 30 (para 4.19);
(n)   GOSE would c4use MOA and AIDB to follow reporting, monitoring and
evaluation procedures outlined in para. 4.20; and
(o)   A mid-term revie# would be carried out as specified in para.
4.21.
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02 (a) The IFAD Loan, Opec Loan and WFP Grant have been declared
effective (para. 3.21); and
(b) For Program Year 1, the work program would be prepared
and furnished to IFAD (parsa. 4.19).
Conditions of Disbursement of Credit Component
7.03 (a)  GOSE would execute a subsidiary agreement with AIDB under which
it would pass on a grant of US$600,000 as institutional support
to AIDB and US$0.3 million for financing women's rural income
generating micro projects (para. 4.18), and additional amounts to
be determined later for funding irrigation development (para.
4.09);
(b) MOA and AIDB would enter a Cooperation Agreement as outlined in
para. 4.10 and Annex VI; and
(c) US$1 million of Loan 131-ET under the miscellaneous category
would have been fully committed for small-scale irrigation
lending (para 4.09).



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL CONTRY PROM
PROJECT COST SUMARY
(Dirr '000)                 (US '9000)                    Z Tctl
-Z Foreignr   Bse
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
A. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION
NATINAK  SUPPORT                                1,354,9  4F47015 S585.4    654.5  2,159.7  2814.2           77       11
ZOAL SU RT                                      1874.1  1758.8  3,632.8    905.3   849.6  1.f55             48        7
AGRICULtUAL SERVICE SUPPORT                    2,116.0  2,153,9  4Y269#9  1,022.2  YO4065  24062.8          50        8
SCHMS CONSTRUCTION                             12,260.0  6890.5 19,150+5  S5922.7  3J328,8  9,251.5         36       37
Sub-Total SIALL SCALE IRRIGATION                  17,604.9  5t273.7 32,878.6  8,504.8 7s378.6 15,883.4         46       63
BD CONRVATION & AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
NATIONAL CONSERVATION SUPPORT UNIT               467.0  2,040.9 2,507.9    225.6   985.9  1J211.5           81        5
CONSERVATICt BASED AGRPNOIIC TRIALS            17259    561.9  2,27.8    833.8   271.4  1,105.2            25        4
DIMND STABILIZATION                               706.8   923.9 1630.7    341.4   446.3   787.8            57        3
EXTENSION                                       3,774.6  5t170*2  8944.8   1,823.5 2,4977  4J321.2          58       17
RURAL KOKKS DEEPMENT SUPPORT                     362.9  14304.3  1W667.2    175.3   63041   805*4           78        3
Sub-Total CONSERVATION I AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT     7,037.2 1000132 17,038.3  3,399.6  4,831.5  8.231,1         59       33
C. MONITORING I EVALUATION
h I E                                           1.083#9  1.221#3 2s305.2    523.6   590.0  1W113.6          53        4
Sub-Total MONITORING & EVALUATION                 1.083.9  1*221.J  23405.2    523.6   5900. 1W113.6           53        4
Totl MELINE COSTS                                  25725.9 26,496.2 52,222*1  12,428.0 12800.1 25t228*1         51      100
Phwsical Contingencies                           2094.5  1,359,4  3,454.0  1,011+8   656.7  1s668.6           39        7                    ,w 
Price Contingencies                              9.790,4 4*390.5 14,180.9  4,729,6 2,121.0  6,850.7           31       27                    ,
Total PROJECT COSTS                                37,610.8 32t246.2 69*B57+0  18.169,5 15,577M9 33,747.4        46      134
-- - -------- - -------------------------------------------------.................-----_--==___-==__    _____-==____-----



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL CUMYRY PRO                     -
ProJectitComponots by Year
(Sir? 1000)
DMs Costs                               Total
87/88    88W9    89/90    9091    91/92    92/93        Birr  (US$ '000)
A. Sl SCALE IRRISATION
NATIONAL SUPPORT                                 2.015.4  1,150.8  1Y006,8   550.8    550.8    550.8   58925.4    2t814.2
ZONAL SU T                                       1239.3  1,332.7    265.2    265*2   265.2    265.2   3Y632,8   1W755.0
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE SlUPOT                        660.9  1,5'40.0    721.0    454.0    461,0    433.0   4Y269,9   24062#8
SCIEMES CONSTRUCTION                            1996.1  3077.0  3,708.1  3p720.1  3,637.8  3,021.4  19s150.5    9,251.5
Sub-Total SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION                    5,901.7  7,1005  5W701.1  4,990.1  4s9148  4,270.4  32878.6   15,883.4
B. CONSERTICN I ARICULTURAL SUPPORT
NATIONAL CONSERVATION SUPPORT UNIT                 M 2.4    551,1    484.1    228.1    196.1    196.1  2,507#9   1s211.5
CONSERVATION BASED AGRONOMIC TRIALS                578.1    546.9    225.4    364*2   286.6    286.6   2i28B78    1,105.2                                  co
BUND STABILIZATION                                  594.3    471,8    193.1    123.9    123#9   1239   1?63007        787,8
EXTENSION                                          927.5  1,767.1  2Y0217  1,536.5  1.459,6  1232.6   8r944.8    4i321.2
RURAL UO ENS DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT                   425.1    769.1    146.0    131.O    103.0      93.0   1Y667.2      e05.4
SUb-Total CONSERVATION A A6RICULTURAL SUPPORT       3,377.4  4,105.9  3,070.2  2,383*7  241691  1IY932,1  17y038t3   8s231.1
C. MONITORING I EVALUATION
H I E                                              643.1    313,3    368.'    365;7   318.7    295.7   2.05.,2    1.113,6
- -- -- - -- -- -- - --  - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - --    - -- ----- -----
SuO-Total MONITORING I EVALUATION                     643.1    313.3    368.7    365.7   318.7    295.7   2.305,2    1i13.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  9,922.2 11p519.8  9,140.0  70739#5  7,402.5  6t498.2  52,222.1   25,228.1
Physical Contingencies                               530.2   626.8   548.6   609,3    605.2   533.9  3,454,0   1,668,6
Price Corntingencies                                 383+7  1,406.5  2051.1  2,740#9  36569.3  4s029.5  14t180#9   6.850.?
Total PRJECT COSTS                                    10836t1 13,553,0 11,739.6 11089,7 11,577.0 11,061.6  69,S57.0   33,747.4
Taxes                                                613.4    741.3   767,7   922.1  10O03,0    962.5  S5010.0    2Y420,3
Foreign Exchanre                                   7,775.0  8,623.4  5.75.O  3477*0  3t451*3  2,744.5  32,246.2   156577.9



ETHIWIA
SPECIAL CWETRY PROSRM
Project Cawanmnts bu Year
Totals Includin Contingencies                         Totals Includins COntinmecies
toter '000)                                            CUSS '000)
87/98   a8/89   89/90   90/9"   91192   92/93   Total    B7t/e  mmt3  69/90  n0M9  91tP2  92/93  Totad
A. SIA  SCALE IRRSDATION
NATIONAL SUFPDRt                           24168.9 1,297.4 1,222.1   739*9   792.6   841.9 7,063*6 1,047*0  626.8  59*7  357.4  31249  406.1 3P412*3
ZOUL SUPPORT                                1,434.0 1659,3   342.0   370.8   399.1   426.6 4,631.9   692,7  801.6  165.2  179.2  192.8  206.1 29237.6
AIRICULRR.L SERVICE SUPPERT                  703,3 1,739o2   865.5   o26.3   693.0  709.6 5,356.9   339.8  840.2  427.8  302.6  334.6  342.8 2,517.9
60HOO8 CBS1RICTION                         20210*9 3s759.0 5O03,4 5592.8 69015.7 5 524.6 28e124.S  1,068.1 1M615M0 29426.8 2.701.8 2,906.2 24668,9 13,586.7
Sub-Total 911L. S   IRRIKATIUN                6i517.1 0t453.0 7,473.8 74329.8 7M900.4 7,502.? 45,176.0 3,148.4 4i083,6 3,610.5 3,541.0 3*816.6 3,624.5 21,824.6
Ds CONSER9ATION I AIRICULtURAL SUPPORT
WATIkL CUIIERUATION SUPPORtEXT               904,2   623.9  535.8   306.2   284.0   302.0 3,007.7   436.8  301.4  233.0  147.9  1376  146.3 1t453.0
CONSERVATION EA9E AIRONONIC TRIALS           619.6   633.5   287.0   509.8   433.2   468.1 2951.1   299.3  306.0  138.7  246.3  209.3  226.1 1,425.7
DUD ST4AILJATION                             646.6   539.7   252.5   172.1   187.9   204.5 2,003.4   312.4  20.7  122.0   8312    90.8   9.8   967.8
EXTENSION                                   1W0007 2,026,4 29500.9 2P096.7 2144.4 1,963.1 11.736.2   483.4  9VW.9 1,208.2 1,012,9 1u037.9  946.4 5.69*7
RURA L UO S DEVELOW'ENT SUPPORT              450.6   916.1   183,3   193.8  156.t  151.4 2,041.2   217.7  442.5   48,5   88.8    54   73.1   996.1
Sub-Total COSERVATION I ARiCULTIRAL SUPPORT  34621,8 4,739.5 3,809.5 3p268.7 39210.3 3M099.8 21*739.6 1,749.7 2,289.6 1,840.3 1,579.1 1S5509 1t492.7 10,502.2
C. IEITORINO I EnJ1TION
11 aE                                        697,1   360.5   456.4   491.2   466.4   469.0 2,94046   336.8  174,2  220.5  237.3  2253  226.6 1,M.6
Sub-Total HONITORINS I EVALUATION               697.1   360.5   456*4   491,2   466.4   469.0 2,940.6   336.8  174,2  220.5  237.3  22.3  226,6 1*420.6
Total PROECT COSTS                             10w836.1 13P553.0 11I739*6 11,089*7 11.577.0 11,061.6 69.857.0 5,234.8 6.,47,4 5,671.3 54357.3 54592.8 5343.7 33,747.4
_ ______-    -                                                                                                                                       n-  U



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Table  1(d)
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL CDUNTRY PROGRAM
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(Birr '000)                   (USe '000)                      2 Total
---------------- ----- -  ------------ - -    -------    Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreisn   Total    Exchange    Costs
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                              1,088.5    697,6  1#786,1      525.8    337.0    862.8           39        3
P. VEHICLES                                   150.9  2.374,6  2525#5        72,9  1J147.2  14220.0           94        5
C. EQUIPMENT
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                          323.7  2t644#8  2,968.5      156.4  1,277.7  1,434.1          89         6
OFFICE FURNITURE/EQUIPMENT                 233.0    907.1  1.140,1      112.6    438.2    550.8          80         2
OTHER EQUIPMENT                              7.5    102.5    110.0        3.6      49.5     53.1          93        0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                           564.2  3t654#4 46218,6       272,6  1.765,4  2,038.0           87        8
D. OPERATING CONSTRUCTION COSTS             1,729.1  1t402#1  3,131.2      835.3    677.4  1,512.7           45        6
E. MATERIAL                                 1,862.0    820.8  24682*8      899,5    396.5  1.296.0           31        5
F. LABOR
SKILLED LABOR                            2,312.6        -  2,312.6   1,117#2          -  1,117.2          -         4
UNSKILLED LABOR                         5.638,9         -  5,638.9   20724,1          -  2,724.1          -        11
Sub-Total LABOR                             7?.951.5       -  7.951.5   3,841,3          -  3,841.3          -        15
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND 'RAINING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      576.0 11s288.0 11,864U0       278.3  5,453.1  5,731.4          95        23
TRAINING                                2,557.8  2,358.0  4r915.8   1,235,7  1.139.1  2,374.8            48         9
===- -      - -- -  ----  ------  - -  --- -- - ----  -- -----  -----
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING                            3,133.8 13,646.0 16.779.8   1,513.9  6,592.3  8.106.2            S1        32
H, CREDIT                                         -    500.0    500.0          -    241.5    241.5         100         1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       16,479.9 23.095,6 39.575.5   7s961,3 11,157.3 194118.6            58        76
II. RECutRENT COSTS
A, STAFF SALARIES I PER DIEMS             7,075.4         -  7,075.4   39418.1         -  3,418.1           -        14
B. OPERATION AOND MAITENANCE
BUILDING 0 IN                            267.8    389,8    657.6       129,4    188.3    317.7          59        1
VENICLE 0 8 I                          1582.1  2,231.3  3,813.4        764.3  1,077,9  1,842.2          59        7
EQUIPMENT 0 1 N                          198.9    298.4    497,3        96.1    144.1    240.2          60        1
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE       2,048.8  2,919,4  4,968.2       989.8  1,410.3  2.400.1          59        10
C. SUPPLIES                                  121.8    481.2    603.1       58.8    232.5    291.3          80         1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         9,246.0  3.400.7 12,646.7  4,466t7  1.642.8  6,109.5             27        24
Total BASELINE COSTS                          25,725.9 26,496.2 52,222.1  12,428.0 12.00.1 25,228.1            51       100
Ptysical Contingencies                      2,094.5  1,359.4  3,454.0   1,011.8    656.7  1,668.6            39         7
Price Continsencies                         9,790.4  4,390.5 14,180.9   40729.6  2,121.0  6,850.7            31        27
Total PROJECT COSTS                           37,610.8 32,246.2 69,857.0  18C169.5 15,577.9 33,747.4            46       134
:=::==2; :==-=-== :-   :.:==::-: :=5--::= -:=___:  :=::::==:=  =s::::



~- 51-*
ANNEX I
Tale1e)
lI_n~ WNR  11036
&ma,v 16mvt by ftoint cwwmo
(litt '000)
CUIfTIU I IODmti i5mt
----------mu---                                    .  a           .                        IIUs  mIII  immIu                    Cunmtl
muIm..L ZM    M     IM         31 5    ChtSTISI a3n    UUc    in                          EV I-
599      UIST URIM  E SU T W      I       UIICR TIS  WM tkIT    TRIAS  3TNUTIN EXTEISIG         V WT          N I E   taWl     S  bwt
3~~s3  33 ~~~a3m     m E*8ma 3~s3  z3w3x          3ps8w    3                        3=uaswwm           3=m 3.8.3.   38.8=3
1. IESTrEr Cs
A. CIL                                 U10.0 1.255.0              -           -            -           36.1       225.0    150.0           -            - 1,16.1  14.8  264.2
B. I1I.                                 270.0  140.0          216.0       511.0         95.0          121.0        70.5    8t6.0        136.0        95.0 25;25.5  10.0  252-6
C- E01PlBlt
S    .ECI E3lEl1t                     6o.O      -              -     24216.0            --                         -    62hO          66.5           - 2196t.5  10.0  296,S
OTEX  INII UIPEIINt                  1s0.0  710.0              -           -        13.0            63.3         9,6         -           -        119.2 1.140.1  tO.0  114,0
laiR tE5IIiEt                         20.0      -           10.0           -            -              -           -        -                        -   110.0  10.0   11.0
Sot-otal EU     T                       180.0  71O-0           90.0     2216.0         13.0           U33           9.6    626.0        66.5        119.2 421.6  10.0  421.9
D. 0ET1s1 1351C1    COS                     -                     -     3,131.2            -             -            -        -           -                 3.1,2  10.0  313.1
E. 8611311.                                 -      -              -     2.65e.6                          -            -                 32.0            - 2,602.6  15.0  4024
F. LA
SK11 LI                                  -      -              -     2,312.6            -              -           -        -           -            - 2,312.6  15.0  346.9
UILEe                                    -      -              -     5LAW9              -              -           -         -                       - 56J-.9  15.0  845.
U6TtaI U    R                               -      -              -     7LAW1.5            -             -            -        -                        - 7951.5  15.0 1,192.7
6. 113311 00535
3- tflL
MS -
1E1l11M. MSItMll                   2,332.0   80.0        1.592.0     2,160.0     1536.0           576.0        576.0  140.0           0.0        672.0 11U.64.0    0,0    0.0
Yuma1                                S16,0   30.0        1068.0        53.0          64#0          145.6         17.8  2M426,5        16,0        102.0 4915M.    0.0    0.0
SotTtal YENUCM. A5M E
AD 1361111                         3343.0  110.0         2.530.0     2,690.0      1,600.0          721.6       s93.s  3,366.5        496.0        7740 16.7793   0.0    0.0
i CEIT                                      -      ^                          -            -             -            -        -       500.0            -   s30.0  tO.0   50.0
Tot  I Eu IT       S                     3.9304 2,215.0        2..s0      190150.5      13330           942.0        69,9  SS11,5s      122045         91.2 39575.5   7.3 2,96.6
it. REUWt Cl1S
.T   1*       1 LI M 1 DEB             346.0  502             W3.9           -        257.6          743.4       480.2  2tW.           227         80 .6 7075.4   0.0    0.0
*. WeIATI MS 36191
:I.ILIII 0 1 t                       t2.0  626.0              -           -            -            0.3         17.3                   -            -   657.6  10.0   65,3
g ao3. 0 I                          614.4  31.6           491.0           -        183.8          220.8       13.I  1.145.6        214.0        476.4 3313A4  10.0  31.3
EN  NTe &A                           75.0      -              -           -        233.5          13.8            -        -            -           -   497.3  10,0   49.7
StTta@l onPTI MUl MIIWn                701.4  909-6          4980            -        417.3         40.9         196.1  1,145.6       214.0        476.4 4.966.2  10.0  496.8
C. WLIS                                310,0      -              -           -            -          167.6         5.5        -                        -   603.1  10.0   60.3
Tota  S     t CtOS                       1907.4 1417.8         131.9            -         674         1345.6          11. 3t43t  .        436.7      14317.0 12,646.7   4.4  557.1
TOta  mIm=E  cam                          51.03.4 3632.3        4269.9    19M1N5A        2v5W7.9       2.237.3      130.?  69t4.6        1667.2       23M52 .52.22.1   6.6 3.454,0
Pliwd       CM inmeu                     169.1  360.5           60.6     2,176.2         65.0          03.6         66.9    236.6        96.5         69.1 3.454.0   0.0    0.0
Prift  Ctiuuoess                       1069.0  635.6         1006.4      67m7           434.7         579.7        305.8  25.           27.6         566.3 1410.9   7.1 1,002.9
tal "ARTI 101                            t7.6 4631.9            52S9    23,124.5         3,t7,7        2,151.1      2.003,4 H1W736.2     2,041.2      2.940.6 69.6S7.0   6.4 4,456.8
inin                                                 _--  - - _-  _                                  -  ... -3
tan                                      411.0  73L8           2.,7      1,937,9        163.5         235.1        190.7   740.0         966J        247.1  5,0100   0.4  420.6
fati  E At                             5,240.3 21W.2         24502.4     6.736.6      23t5.4          749.4      1o4.9  6.394.0       1,5".9       1,476.5 329246.2   4.9 1.594.0



ETHIOPIA
U'EIAL cOWTRY PRURA
EMM OF U SIM"RY ACCODIT
(US$ 100O)
PhusCel Cantingierces             price  oot1nsencies                                                    Phusicia
Oas costs                                    - -         -------Total Idc. Co,t.                                                     Coot. Plus  asne Costs 
Local                              Local                   ---price Coot. pr'ice Cot..
Local (Exol,. Duties I        For, (Excl. Duties I                     (Exel* Duties I                     Local (Excl. Duties I         on Pbwslcal   on Bas
for. Exch.   Tame)    Taxes   Total   Exch, Taxes) Taxe   Total   For. Exob. Tates)  Taxes  Total   For. Exch.   Taxes)    Teaxs   Total               Coot.       costs
14I. V SW        COSM
A. CIVI inCS                                337.0        39.3   144.5   862.9  49.8  56.7    21.1  1I7.6            213.3   41.7    14.9   79.8        410.1        479.7   19043 1.070.3         137.0        932.5
8. VEaCLES                                 1.I47#2        72.9       -  t.220.0  114.7   7.3        -  122.0        168.3   15.6        -183.9    1 P430,2           95.8       - 19526,0         138.7      1.38?.2
C. ESUFWITW
SPECA. EUIlINT                         1,277.7         64.3    92.0  1,434.1  127.8   6.4      9.2  143.4        189.6   11.0    17.7  218.3    1,595.0           81.9   119.0  1,795.8        163.3      1 r6324
OFFI  FUIRIXTE/E IPIEN                   438.2         30.9    01.7   550.8  43.8   3.1        8.2   55.1         31.6    3.5      4.6   39.7       513.6         37.5    94,4   645.6          58.7        586.9
OmlE  EGUIFUO                             49.5          2.2      1.4    53.1   5,0   0.2        0.1    5,3         3.4    0.2      0.1    3.7         57.9         2.6      1.6    62.2          5.7         56,5
sub-TO  otalEDIPEN                        1,65.4          97.4   175.1  2,0380  176.5   9.7    17.5  203.8          224.6   14.7    22.4  261,8    29166.6          121.9   215.1 2M53.           227.6      2.275.9
A. WIRATINS CID5TRITIN COST                 677.4        602.6   232.7  1,512.7  67.7  60.3    23.3  151.3          187.6  249,6    73.2  510.3        93.7         912.4   3292 2,174.2          1977.7     1.974,6
C. IRIERIAL                                 396.5        640.3   25.2  1,296.0  59.5  96.0    38.9  194.4           122.9  303.6   106.6  533.2        579.0      1.039#9   404.7 2.023,6         264.0      1,759.7
F. LAN
SKILLEDLAW                                   -      1I005.    111.7  1,117,2      - 150.8    16.8  167,6             -  475.5    52.8  528.3            -      1,631.8   181.3 1,813.          236.5      1.56,6.
WiSmILE  LAWl                                -      2,724.1        - 2,724#1      - 408.6        -  406.6            - 1,328.4       - 1.328.4          -      4,461.1       - 49461.1         581.9      3,570,3
Sub-Total LonI                                         WM,79.    111.7 3.841.3       - 559.4    16.8  576.2             - 1.803.9    52.8 1#856.7          -      6,092.9   181.3 6.27.2          818.4      5,455.8
8. IEWIICA. ISTOMc
TEWIIAI ASSSTICE                       5,453.1        278,3        - 5,73.4       -      -       -       -       692.5   25.6        -  718.1    6,145.6         303.         - 6,44.5             -      6-4.495
TEAZIW                                 1,139.1      1,230.      4.8  2,37.8       -      -       -       -       245.2  353.3      0.5  598.9    1W34.         1,584.1     5,3 2,73.7-
Sub-total lIOICI MSTMICE
AnD TEAIII                             6,592.3      1.509.1      4.8  8,106.2     -      -       -       -       937.7  378.9      0.5 1,17.0    7,529.9       14897.9     5.3  9,423.2                   ' t~423.2
M. CEDIT                                    241.5            -       -   241.5  24.2        -       -   24.2         27.7    0.0        -   27.7       293.4            -       - 293.4            26.7        266.7
ToUItral WsTIT COST                         11,P157.3     7,033.2   928.1 IM.18.6  492.5  789.4   117.6 1,399.4    1,692.1 2,807.9   270.4 4.770.5   13,341.9    10.630,  1,316.1 25,288.5         11910.8     23,477.7
II. RECWD COST
A. STAFF SALARIES I PER DIMN                   -      3,047.8   370.2  3.418.!      -      -       -       -           - 1,138.7   137.4 1.276.1          -      4,186.5   507.6 4Y694.2             -      4.694.2
P. OPEATION NO HAJETENPMC
siJiLBN  C INH                          188.3         66.0    63.4   317.7  18.9   6.6        6.3   31.8         51.2   27.7    18.8   97,6       2-58.3        100.2    88.5   447.1          40.6        406,4
VEHILE a I M                           1.077.9       466.5   297.9 1,942.2  107.8  46.6    29.8  184.2          278.5  183.5    88.4  5!'0.4    1,464.2         696,6   416.0 2,576.8         234,3      2,342.t
EOUIPRNEJT 0 I M                         144.1        60.1    36.0   240.2  14.4   6.0        3.6   24.0         41.0   261      11.8   78.9        199.5        92.1    51.5   343.1          31.232-
Sub-Total OPERTION AMD HAUITEANCE        1.410.3        592.:   397.3 2,400.1  141.0  V9,3    39.7  240.0          370.7  237.2   119-0  726.9    1.922.0          889.0   556.0  3,367.0        306.1      3.060.9
C. 5RWIES                                  232.5         29.~1    29.7   291.3  23.2   2.9       3.0   29.1         58.3   11.1      7.9   77.2       314.          43.1    40.6   397.7          36.2        361.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        1.642.8      3,669.5   79.2  6,09'.5  164.3  62.2    42.7  269.1          428.9 1,87.0   264.3 2.090,2    2,36.0        5,118.7  1,194.1  8,458.9       342.2      8,116.6
Total                                        12,800. 1    10.702.6  1,725.3 25,228.1  656.7 651.6   160.3 1.668.6    2.121.0 4.194.?   534,7 6.850.7   15577.9    15,74.2  2t420.3 33,747,44        215         31t594.3      -
-   -    -- - - - - ------- - -------- - -- - -- - ------ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ b~



SEL COmnR P_M
(Mnt '80)
fbl  C~(D" low)d
Pluical Cotnuimmios              Price Cmtlirnftlas                                              Pi
hws Cas                                                                                            TOa IOl. Co1t.             Cost. nis  bk  coat +
Loa                             local                                                      Pice tots. Prim Ct.
Local (Eel. Muiss t                  (Exel. MAi  I                   (Eli. hus S                      tocal d(Eul. OUi  I        on Pluical   an DM
For. Widi.   Tas)    Tos   Tbl   For. eih. Tas)  Tom   TOtWo For. Ex£h. Tis)  Taxes   Tot    Fat 1xb.   Tos)    T                  Totl      COt.       1ot
I.  -lESB  cui
A. CIMI                                 67.6       7M.4   299.1  ,736.1      103.1  117.3   43.7  264.2       4.2  86.2   30.3  165.3         848.9       m.9  373.? 2:215.5        21i.3      1.955,2
8. OCR.                               2374.6       158.9      - 2 1=.5       23.5   151        -  252.6      34084   32.3       -   380.7   2,960.5       13.2       - 3.1.7        2W7.2     287.6
C. EIElIt
SPaUm  UIPUIT                      264.8        131.2  190.5 2968.5        264.5  13.3   19.1  2969        392.4  22.8   36.7  451,9    3,301.7        10.3  246.3 3,711.3       337.9      3379n.3
WFIO   FlEF_uIEIW                   907.1       64.0   19.0 1,140.1       90.7   6.4    6.9  114.0        65.4   7.2      9.6   82.2   1.063.2         77.6  195.5 113          121.5      1,254.9
OM      IMS E1l02.5                               4.5    3.0   110.O        10.3   0.5    0.3   11.0         7.1   0.5    0.1    7.7    U1S              5.4    3.4  I1.7         11..        117.0
9TtaI MiI1                            3,65.4       21.7   362.5 4,218.0      365.4   20.2   36.3  421.9      465.0   3t.5   46.4   31.3    443.3          2St.3   445.2 5t12.3      41.1       407U.2
*. P9T1161      4     mm              1*412.1    1?247#3   41.8 3,131.2      140.2  t2.7    48.2  313.1      3,3  5166   11t.5 16106.4   1,A.6    1,33.7   6MA.4 4X.5?              409.2      41-M.5
*.  mU1L                                120.8    21325.4   5J6.6 24A32.8    U1l   1"8a   08.5  402.4          254.5  428.5  223.7 11.t   t11A.4         212.7   W7.  4.1.             6.4      3625
F. L
KiEnD Lu                                 -     29481.3   231.3 2,312.6        -  32.2   34.7  346.9           -  92   109.4 109.6              - h377.7  375.3 3753O    45S.5               3255
U91LiD Lii_ -                                  5.63B.9      - 5,438,9         -  845.        -  341,.         - 274798       - 2749            -    9236          -  .36        1,234.5     8,039.1
Wtd        t                               -     7,728,2   231.3 7,95.5          - t11580    34.7 1.192.?        -37        104 343.4             -    1262.3   375.3 12.97.&    1694.0   u1296
IESIRtD *1333135                   11.38.0      56.0        - U164.0          -      -   *               1.43      W         - 1 M5   12,721.5         42.        - 13,35    o      .0      3s3
1nl                                258.0    2.37,8    10o.  4,91.0            -      - -                   W57.5  731.2    1.0 1.23.7    2L5,5       3219.0   11.0 6#5             0.0      4.1S.5
11i211                             1340        3,123.    10.0 16,779S                -       -      -    1941.0  7.3    1.  2,p2.2   5570            3908.    110 1956.0          -0.0 1,e504
No  5o .O0                                             -       -5so.0          e.0      -       -50.0         57.4      -       -    57.4     607.4        0.o       - 67.4          55.2        m2
Tual aUlIT M     518                    295.       14..W  192.2 3,7s5.5   1,t01.4 1.43         243. 2496.8    22.? 5,812.4  s5.  9749   5617.4   220.1 2,724.4 2P347.2    3,7484                48.33.3
11.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A.tSNWF 1      Sf I    8191               -     6#389.0  7664 7 4               -          -          -           2,#1.1  234.4 2.4.5            -     906,1  1.8s,0 9,716.9        -0.0     91714.9
1mm    o t 1                        39.8       136.    3.2   457.6         39.0  13.7   13,l  45.8        16.9 s   7.3   38.9   202.s       34.7      207.5  133.3  M75S         84.1        33.3
uma0  1                            2M,.3        95.6  616.5 3,813.4       223.1    6.6   61.6  33.J       576.6  379.8  1329 113S.4    3,01.         1,442.0   81.1 534.0        4us.      449.1
Elt OS II                         294        124.3   74.6  497.3        29.8  12.4    7.5   49.7        04.8  34.0    24.5  l43.2       413.0       10.7   15   710.2          64.6       66.6
lbtd   mTIU  M1 DNIBhU               2#919.4     l.226.5  022.3 4,948.2     29.   122.6   32.2  496.8    7t.3  491.1  246.3 1.584.7    3n97a.6         1,10.2 11.13.3  6969.7      633.6      636.1
C. 10791,119                           481.2       60.3   61.5   603.1       48    4S.       6a.2  60.       1.6   2          .3   1       Z3.0           89.3   33.9  S23.2        74.8       7434M
Total Ea ltC                             34l? 7A                                340.1 11.7 37.4  587.1 N37.9 2*87.2  547.0 4306.1    4.6.6   10,595.7 2,2a..6 174.09                   7O04     1601.4
tel                                      26.496.2   22,154.5 3571+4 52,22.     1,3A.4 1,7A    331.7 344N0    439.5 363.s5 1t06S 14,100    32,2462    3w40.0 5100.o 69.w70              AU46.6    6514;r



- 54 -
ANNEX I
TablIe l(h)
ETHIOPIA
SECIAL COM    PRORANI
Suoaarv Accmounts b Year
(Dirr '000)
B.i. Costs                            Foreign Exchange
87/88    88/89    89/9W    90/91    91/92    92J93    Total       Z     Amunt
1. INVESTENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS                            1,028.5    689.5     500     18.0         -        -  1786.1    39.1     697.6
BS  MEHICLES                              1.045,0   608,5   280.0   246.0   211.0   135.0  2M525.5   94.0  2.374.6
C. EtUIPENlt
SPECIAL E6UIP#EN1                        855.4    952.2    501.1    494.6    150.6      14.6  2t968.5    89.1   2.644,8
OFFICE FURNITUR}JEbUIPfENt               731.0    374.3      3.2     31,7         -        -  1140#1   79.6       907.1
OTHER ElOIPHENT                          65.0     45.0        -        -        -         -    110,0   93,2    102.5
Sub-Total EQUIPHENT                     1t65124  1371.5    504.3    526.3    150.6         14.6  4,218.6    86,6  3.654.4
D. OPERATING CONSTRUCTION COStS             252.7   422.8    S34,8   623*7   645.1   652.2  3,131.2    44.8   1402.1
E. MATERIAL                                  42.1    247.3   556.3    627.2    677.6    532.3  2,682.8   30.6        820.8
F. LAO
SKILLED LABOR                             34.1    221.1    476,1    537.4    587.7    456.3  2,312.6      0.0       0.0
UNSKILLED LABWR                          118U8    502.4  1.034,0  1,248.8  14398#3  1.336,7  5,638.9      0.0       0.0
Sub-Total LABOR                             152,8   723.5  16510.0  1          786.2  1t986.0  1.793,0  7.951.5  0.0   0.0
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAININ6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   3,824.0  4.008,0  2.568.0    600.0    576.0   288.0 11#864.0    95.1  11t288.0
MRAINING                                 783.4  1022.9    934.0    853.5    697.6    624.6  4,915.8    48.0   2,358.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING                           4,607.4  5,030.9  3,502.0  1,453.5  1,273.6   912.6 16779.8    81.3  13P646*0
8. CREDIT                                       -   500.0         -        -         -        -   500.0   100.0    500.0
Total INVESTLENT COSTS                       80779.8 9,594.0 6,937.3  5%280,9  4t943.9 44039.6 396575#5   58,4  23.095,6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARIES I PER DIEMS              624.4  1013.6  1,210.4  1,409.0  1,409.0  1,409.0  7.O75t4    0.0         0.0
B. OPERATION AND IAINTENANCE
BUILDING 0 i n                           20.0    126.9    127.6    127.7    127.7    127?7    657.6    59.3      389.8
MEHICLE 0 1 N                           403.6    604.3    682.9    707.6    707.6    707.6  34813.4    58.5   29211.3
EUIPHENt 0 1 N                           12.6    83.4      83.4    106.0    106.0    106.0    497.3   60.0       298.4
Sub-Total OPERATION AND  MINTENANCE        436.1    814.6    893.8    941.2    941.2    941.2  49968,2   58.8  2,919.4
C. SUPPLIES                                 81,8     97.6    98.4    108,4    108.4    108.4    603.1    79.8    481.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        14142*4  1,925.8  2W202.7  2#458,6  2,458.6  2,458.6 12,646.7   26.9  3,400.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                          9.922#2 l11519.8  9,14400  70739,5  7,402.5 6.498,2 52t222#1   50.7  26P496.2
Phisical Contingencies                       530.2   626.8    548.6    609.3   605.2   533.9  3,454.0    39.4  1.359#4
Price Contingencies                          383.7  1,406.5 24051.1  2.740,9  3t569.3  4t029.5 14,180.9   31.0  4,390,5
Total PROJECT COSTS                          10,836.1 13,553.0 11,739.6 11.089,7 11.577,0 11,061.6 69#857.0   46b2  32,246.2
Z:==ua .== am=z  =               ZS=  :.zu             =.S t
Taxes                                        613.4   741.3   767.7   922.1  1,003.0    962.5  5.010.0         0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchang                            7,775.0  8,623,4  5,775.0  3.87790  3,451.3 2.744#5 32,246.2       0.0       0,0
-              _ -  _ - ---------- - - ---   - -         - - - -



?ICMA COMM ITh 908
Siurv kccoats bs Year
Totals Includine Contiemmis                           Tots Ieltudird Conrgies
(Dirr '000)                                            (136 '000)
87VIM   8        9/90   9/91   912   9293   Totl    V/ A        89   9/0 m      90/9  12  92/93  Totl
A. CML NM9                           1229.4    8,7   70.1    27.4          -       - 2,215.5   593*9  429.3   33.9  13*2        -      -  t,070,3
3. EHICLES                           14189*3   740.6  364.8   343.7   311.9   206.3 3,13*7   574.6  357t8  176.3  16641  150.7  100*7 1W526.0
C, EllIWlt
SPECA  EUIPIET                      973.5 1,1B.5   652.2   619.9   220.9    22,3 3,717,3   470.3  559,7  315.1  333*3  106.7   10.8 1t793.8
FFICE    IUIEEUIPT                  831.3   456,4     4,2    44.0       -       - 1.336.3   401.6  220.5   2.0   21,3        -      -   645.6
OTIGM  EUpiT                         74.0    54.7       -       -       -       -   126,7    35.7   26.4       -      -      -      -    62.2
Sub-Toal E ltNT                      1,879.2 1,669.7   656.3   733.9   220,9    22.3 5,112.3   907.8  806.6  317.1  354.5  106.7   10.8 2,503,5
D, OPTINI  ClMnTo COSTS                298.9   520.7   712M0   98,9 14000.6 1,079.6 4,500.7   139,6  25115  343.9  434.3  493*4  521.6 2,174.2
E. ATEIdAL                              50.4   320.1    M*.6   959.7 1,123,6   953.5 4v188B9    24,4  1546  377*6  463.6  562*.  460*6 2,023*6
F. LABOR
SKILL AWE                            40.9  26996   683.0   849,0 1.020,2   9713 3753.0    19,8  139.9  32.9  409.7  492.8  420.9 1,813.1
iUiuL LA                            142.7   65861 1483.4 1,970.8 2.427,3 2,522.3 9%234,6    68.9  317,9  716.6   52.1 1,172.6 1233*0 4,46.1
Sub-Tol LAWR                           193.7   947,7 2,166.3 2,818.9  3.447#5 3,423.6 124987.6    87  457.3 1,046.5 1,361.7 1,665.5 14653*9 6P274.2
g. TED#IC4L AfSISTANCE
AN Tau
TECHNICAL SSISTACE                 3,957.2 4,436,1 3.0316   758.3   768.0  39.3 13350.5 1#911.7 2143,0 1,464.6  3663  371.0  192.9 649,5
TRAI                                814.7 14150.2 1,139.3 1,122.0   982,6   9476 6h152.5   39.6  5557  509.9  542.0  474.7  457.9 2M,7
SbTotl TECIUICM  ASSTICE
ND TR2AININ                        4,7.9 5*586,3 4,169.9 16980.3 1,750.6 1347.1 19U506.0 2,305.3 2698.7 2014.4  908.3  805.7  650.8 9,423.2
H. CREDIT                                  -   607.4       -       -       -       -   607,4       -  293,4      -       -      -      -   2.4
Total IMIESTIW  COSTS                   9,592.8 11,281.1  S,921.1 7,662.7 7?055,1 7,0344 52,347.2 4.634.2 59449.3 4,309.7 3.701.9 3*794.7 3393.3 25t295
1I. IRECIINT COSTS
A. STIF SAMES a PER DIEIS             652.5 19154.5 1510.0 1,933.S 29126.9 2,339.5 9,716,9   315.2  55;.7  729.5  934.1 1,02.5 1,13.2 4,694,2
3. OETIOR MS ISDTlAIlCE
lilmii O a1                        22.3   155.4   168.1   181,3   193,5   204.4  925.5   110   75.51  812   37.6   93.5   98*7   447.1
IaCLE 0 1 N                        460.5   740.8   9,B  1009.0  14078.9 1143.2 53340   222.5  357.9  435.6  487.4  521.2  W.3  2,576.9
EWIPENoT Ca t                       14.3   102.2   110.0   151.1   161.5   171.1   710.2      6.9   49.4   53.2   73.0   78.0   82.6   343.1
Sub-Total WPATION AND MINTNICE        497?6    9.4  1,1799 1341.3 1,433.8 1,518.6 6t969.7   240,4  482.3  570.0  64.0  692.7  733M6 3,367.0   't4
C. SlitLIES                            93.2   119.0   128.6   152.1   161,3   169.0   323.2   45.0   57.5   62.1   73.5   77,9   816   397.7
---        -  - 2:s --| --= -   -!-  --. --.......... _  _ _                                                      IX
Total RECIMEN  COSTS                    1,243.3 2,21.9 2,818.5 3,427.0  3,72.0 4,027.1 17,509.8   600.6 1PO,09. 1,361.6 1,6355, 1,799,1 1.945.  8,458,9 
Total PROJECT CO8TS                     10t,36.1 13,553*0 11,739*6 11,089.7 I,577.0 11,061*6 69,957.0 59234.8 6547,4 5,671#3 5,357.3 5,592.8 5343.7 33,747.4
=c z=:: -~ -                        __ _-=:=           : =                                       2U



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Estimated Schedule of Disburements
(Us$ Million)
Disbursement
Profile
Total Disbursements    (Etbiopian
IFAD      Quarter   Ending          By End of                   Cumulative          Agri. Projects
Fiscal Year  Month      Year          Quarter                (US$'000 M)      (M)          (C)
1987   June          1987       0.2 1/  (0.3)2/        0.2 1/ (0.3)21
1988   September    1987        0.3      (0.7)         0.5    (1.0)
December      1987       0.4      (0.7)        0.9    (1.7)
March         1988       0.4      (0.7)         1.3    (2.4)
June          1988       0.4      (0.8)         1.7    (3.2)        15            12.
1989   September    1988        0.4      (0.9)         2.1    (4.1)
December      1988       0.5      (0.9)        2.6    (5.0)
March         1989       0.5      (1.0)         3.1    (6.0)
June          1989      0O5       (1.0)         3*6    (7.0)        32           24
1990   September    1989        0.4      (0.7)         4*0    (7.7)
December      1989       0.5      (0.8)        4.5    (8.5)
March         1990       0.5      (1.0)         5.0    (9.5)
June          1990       0.5      (1.0)         5.5   (10.5)        48           38
1991   September    1990        0*5      (1.0)         6.0   (11.5)
December      1990       0.5      (1.0)        6.5   (12.5)
March         1991       0.5      (1.0)         7.0   (13.5)
June          1991       0.5      (1.0)        7.5   (14.5)         66           52
1992   September    1991        0.3      (0.7)         7.8   (15.2)
December     1991        0.3      (0.6)        8.1   (15.8)
March         1992       0.3      (0.7)        8.4   (16.5)
June          1992       0.3      (0.7)         8.7   (17.2)        78           65
1993   September    1992        0.6      (0.9)         9.3   (18.0)
December      1992       0.6      (1.3)        9.9   (19.3)
March         1993       0.6      (1.4)        10.5   (20.7)
June          1993       0.5      (1.3)        11.0   (22.0)       100           77
Expected Date of Signing of Loan Agreement:           February 28, 1987
Expected Date of Effectiveness of Loan Agreement:  April    30, 1987
Expected Date of Program Completion:                  June     30, 1993
Expected Date of Closing of Loan:                     December 31, 1993
1/  Disbursements of US$11.0 Million IFAD Loan.
2/ Disbursemnts of IhAD Loan plus Cofinancing (US$11.0 Million)
excluding US$1 million from Loan 131-ET which has a different
disbursement procedure and US$1 million from WPP which is a grant
for which other procurement and disbursement conditions apply.



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
C/B Streams for Small-Scale Irrigation Component
t      2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10  11-25
C. 1  4821.2  5416.5  5853.4  5955.2  5918.6  5333.2  300.0  900.0  900.0  900.0  900.0
O. t    37. t  23S. 0   766. 3  t74S.3  3182. 4 4973.4  6717. 4 8182.0  9205.5  9987. 8 10392. 9
December 15. 1986 17:54
Internal Rates of Return of Met Streams
M. TOT                 It. 181
1      2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10  11-25
C. 1    -121.2  6416.5  5853.4  5955.2  5918.6  5333.2  900.0  900.0  900.0  900.0   99O.0
5.t       37.1   235.0  766.3  1748.3  3182.4  4973.4  67t7.4  8182.0 1205.5  981.8 10392.9
N. TOT  -4784. 1 -6t81. 5 -5087. I -4200.8 -2735. 2  -359.8  5817.4  7282.0  8305.5  9087.8 9492.9
-------    --------    -----            --      . --------     -- --  .- ------------------------t
PRESEIT VALUES Of NET StREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 13.51
8. 1     UP 1Ot      UP 20S     UP50    DONM 10    MM4 20S 01   507, LAO t YEAR LAG 2 YEARS IAG 3 YEARS
C. 1            10.465.8   14. 041.9    17. 617.9   28. 346. 0   6.889.8    3.313. 7    -7.414. 4    6, 212.4    2.464.8    -R36. 9
UP 101           7,935.4    11.512.4   15. 08, 4   25. 8t6.6    4,360.3       784. 3    -9.943.8    3,682.9       -64.6   -3,366.4
UP 20M           S. 408. 9   8L S92. 9    t2, 559. 0    23,287. 1  1,830. 9    -1. 745. 2   -2. 473. 3  1. 153.5   -2.594.1   -5.895.9
UP 50S          -2. 181.5    1,394.6    4,970.6    15.698.?   -S 757.5   -9.333.6  -20,061.7   -6.434.9  -tO.182.4  -13.484.2
m0  10t         12, 95. 3    16. 521.3   a0. 141.4   30. 875.5  9 4t9. 2    5,843.2   -4.884.8      87 41.8    4,994.3    t.692.5
DOMN 207        15,524.7   19. 100. 8   22,676.8   33,404.5    11,948.7     8 372.8   -2.355.5    11,271. 3    7.523.8    4.222.0
0068 50S        23,113.1   26. 689. 1   30,265.2   40,9 93. 3    19,537. 1   IS. 8961. 0,   5,232.9    18,l859. 7    15,112.1   11.810.4
tAG I YEAR             -           -           -           -           -                -           9,221.0    5,473.5    2.171.7
LAG 2 YEARS            -           -           -           -          -           -           -           -    8,124.2    4.822.4
LAG 3 YEARS            -           -           -           -           -          -                                   -    7. 157.9
INTERNALt RATES OF RETURI Of NET STREAIS
6.1      t           UP MP20?   UPS50    DON lt O           DOI20    I ONI 50t LAG   YEAR LAG 2 YEfRS LA 3 YEARS                                    a,
C. 1              19.t11      20.909      22.551      27.144     17.360      IS.423       8.530      16.S60      14.631      13.136
UP 102            i?. 530     19. 18t     20. 758     25. 120     15. 785     13.926      7.25S6     15. 204     13. 472     12. 119
UP 201            16.083      0. 67t      19. 181     23.359      14.403      12.608      6.119      14.004      12.439      11.209
UP 501            12.608      14.054      15.423      19.181      11.069      9.412       3.287      11.073       9.891       8.94t
0DM01 101         21.096      22.916      24.657      29.506      19. 16t     17t 151     9.979       8. 114     15.949      t4.285
OOlit 201         23.359      25.292      2?. 144     32.316      21.329      19. t8t    11.658      19.923      17.469      15.604
DOWN 50S          33.936      36.442      38.854      45.639      31.321     28.575      19.181      28.037      24.116      21.269
LAG I YEAR             -           -           -           -          -           -           -      19.181      16.560      14.631
LAG 2 YEARS            -           -           -           -           -          -           -           -      19. 181     16.560
LAG 3 YEARS            -           -           -. 181



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Agricult:ural Extension
C!.R Streams for Extension Component
1      2       3       4       5       6       7       8      9      10      11      12      13      14      15   16-25
Cel    3342.0  3054.0  1450.0  1188X0  99.0  980.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0  1650.0
3.1    1693.0  1725.0  1763.0  1802.0  183.0  1850.0  1888.0  1924.0  1970.0  2004.0  2042.0 2085.0 2110.0 2150.0 219.0  222O.0
N.MOT  -1649.0 -1329.0   313.0  614.0  845.0  870.0  238.0  274.0  320.0  354.0  392.0  435.0  460.0   500.0  540.0  570.0
…---------------------------                              --------- …--- ------  -   ---    …   -…--  --    -   -    -  -  -   -  -
VP



2s0-
t    IB   01      *      S                  a t   *  w Iu 1    11       IaI   1
1. CS
(2.^
(1t )mU    a ban"            13      3    *3    11    is    1        IS   15    IS  -3    135    Is   - S
b.ml                       4Q2     1    u1s   02  I,pl   2.23    *22   4       =2    32    32    Om    I
(b) w I
(t) $  had   Dhawb         -        -     -      -     -      -     -       -    -     -      -     -      -
(U) 2U32S
t  .----                                                                                          -       -
2. *%WA"n-g
()2718km (4O  )           44V 4M    4/*  14  2*    VW-_
(U) 22 as4a2 (7)           246   2.9w   2.W   2.23  2.2?  2*6
(i) am LM (4 )                12  I,AN   2,36  I,"   ,1 2I I'm                                            -
(to w a         m  O2    2 s              1o     4 _       _                          - _   _  _
O-:a                      0,7   O*m   km ,lu    ?.V    A          -        -    -     -      -     -      -
Aw.                                          .a o27 lonn   a Ofa                            32     32    *2
(. Y
_ 131 A-OW 12143t         4,M   ,2W   4.76   20  1 23  12.4    -            -    -     -      -     -      -
4328221.2 *M           2W     W5  1s3    124_ _ 1_3 _ 
(Jill 2822uft 4 134323       So   3ft    12S           43    420
_                         *,2 4.1      r "241  23   M0,4  22,1l P1 A  -     -   -     -      -      -   _
(b)   35 _my
Umw-_  -                                          -   -            -----    WS5 
_        .            JS    3     38    21    3      2      IS    23      2 
_3420                      114   2m     3      IS    3      3     3      a     38    gm    2      22   fin
(H)                                                   *                  *     *       .A2
*           a     to    I.    IN    2                     A     A     ' A
9ilto                       is    me    to   2a   1go    tO        s l 0    23 al   D       1     43    Aft
an) a W.
boom                   -       -      -     -     V  -l  -A   .A            V    GV    It    2V   -
I            _            1    21      W    310   So    *12  -AD            13    221   172  1  %
k1    V1321A                          W  1.fi1   31 W                           A    (l m  tS     2 -
(Uw) W1.2   32
Dun                                         -   _     -                     .  7  
(2   vat     2g                                X S" J                         12  I.W   21   1            2 nu
at) _t a ltm ad
OW         4 _A____                                                 W        W    2w    20   m      W     1
_(4 14                 -     -      -     -._.         -      22521         VI       2 51 Is   21 4.7
(UK I                                                                    so     W -l         _ -as  W    i3 as   W 
1~~ ft ammoom cob     1927) C2,2) (2,272) (2,223 (4,23) (4,3?  MM2 (2,123  (I'23  (2,224) (24222  (.611ft2,242111t
DM  akss   m    od 'a v#So  2t *Aof    u(f . IS f
-ri  tu to. u'f*a km2w hae qcd1 d2 km41 am =mmq~ 1
fta*O f_tx hn  MO W"Ju  n,^ *W,m a*, dwX at,a do, ot.,.woa so) aw,a
m        e  2 1 1 nW, 4n g, a12*4ub           e1 O ){213u8e5,38fr mn
-Ybe   8pfd tt~2 133     4114e da 2km21 41ti 2n213a em   he   243F1a
Ut  ou  *30bovm 4341          f w,   12w49. b T 44  a1 an1    d
AUS mmpmftdmd          .3*   mu d W"4_2_21   flu e"2321 d
WA ml2    fm  2 tm I_    O        2 b 3  t*2met and. ftft4  la VW t   de2
13222232 14Al w  6U22       ad t3 td2    GM%  341 of4. tomb622  NO4 a2
_dtld66-t l        l       _lt GA                  tst
c.   t   ad &* 8I^                   3    '      d   1 2
482*2whe                             hd_d            h am 3.
(a _d S M  0VW                   d' .m of     lttb
(43 VA  s7o1 W     20(o2" cc  21m owow            m    3.23
is 38bm 2.
(4)   -5*4.l
ywl  t_"
Y telf
of<R t 1& to 93 P   SW _F-a d



* - 60 -
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM                  AN M  I
Table 5(a)
Farugte Prices (1985/86) 1/
Farmgate Price
(Quota  2I           Free Market  3t      Estimated  4/
(BDrrt10 kg.)          (Birr/100 kg.)       Average
Teff Mixed            38                      80                  67
Wheat Mixed           30                      70                  57
Barley - White        28                      60                  SO
Sorghum - White       27                      60                  49
Millet                20                      50                  41
Maize                 20                      50                  40
Peas - Mixed          32                      70                  58
Lentils               42                      80                  68
Chick Peas            28                      70                  57
Beans                 25                      60                  48
Nlger Seeds           45                      90                  75
Rape Seeds            41                      80                  68
Flax Seeds            41                      80                  68
Cabbage                -.                                         20
Tomatoes                                                          70
Onions                 -                       -                  60
Carrots                -                                          60
Chillies (Hot Pepper) -                        -                 100
Potatoes               -                                          35
Other Vetables         -                       e                  50
Other/Pulses           -                       -                  50
unquota
Bananas                -                       -                  40
Prod. Coops          Birr          Peasant Farms
DAP                           81                                    83
Urea                          63                                    65
Chemicals (one L)5/           10                                    11
Cereal Seeds                                     150%   of Open Market Price
Pulses                                           15%o  of Open Market Price.
1/ Financial Prices 2/ AMS Prices 3/ Countrywide Estimated Average 4/
Weighted Average T1/3 quota price; 2/3 free market price.) 5/ Average
for mostly used chemicals,



- 61 -                    ANNEX I
Table 5(b)
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Basic Assumptions for the Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        Prices used for the cost tables are based on:
-    Financial and Economic Prices of Program related Products;
-    Farmgate Prices of Products;
-    Vegetable Farmgate Prices;
-    Agricultural Input Prices;
-    Official Government Salary Scale and Per Diems;
-    Current Taxes, Duties and Fees;
-    Local Costs Calculation for Imported Machinery and Equipment;
-    Machinery Costs - CI? AMsab; and
-    Machinery and Equipment Costs in Ethiopia for items expected to
be purchased locally.
2.        November 1986 Expected Prices for Investment Items and Recurrent
Costs have been used. These include duties, taxes and fees except for
those items, which according to current regulations are exempt from the
payment of duties, taxes and fees, if imported under a program financed by
multilateral or bilateral development organizations.
Labor
3.        Unskilled labor provided by the beneficiaries for Program related
construction has been included at a cost of Birr two per man-day which is
the current rate in rural areas. All other labor, skilled artisanal and
Incremental Government staff, has been included at costs which reflect
current salary scale and per diems,
Replacement
4.        Investment items are assessed to be replaced at intervals which
reflect the estimated life of the respective items. These are:
Years
-    Vehicles                               6
-    Motorcycles                           3
-    Micro Computers and Calculators       6
-    Trucks                                 7
-    Other Equipment                       10
-    Buildings                            30
-    Irrigation Schemes                   30
-    Investment                            30



-62-                     ANNXI
Table 5(b)
Page 2
Conigencies
I, :
5.        Physical contingencies have been included at 10% except for road
construction buildings and irrigation schemes where 15% has been used in
view of cost estimates that might be subject to larger variations. Price
contingencies have been included at 9% for the first two years and IO0
thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs have been included
according to World Bank Guidelines on Expected Price Increases and Interest
Ratess, dated February 5, 1986, which are for:  1987--6.8%; 1988--6.8%;
1989--7.0%; 1990--7.1 and 1991-95--4.0%.
Tgr    Life Time
6.        The life of the Small-Scale Irrigation Program is assumed to be
30 years. Replacement costs have been calculated in accordance with
paragraph 4. No residual values have been included in the benefits.
Benefits and Costs
7.        Amounts are shown in November 1986 prices.  The official exchange
rate (OER) US$1 = Birr 2.07 was used. For economic calculation, the import
parity prices and the current Standard oDnversion Factor (S(F) of 0.75 was
used which is equivalent to the Shadow Exchange Rate (SER) of US$1 - Birr
2.76. Foreign costs were included at their financial value, i.e., in Birr
converted at the OER. Duties, taxes and fees were excluded, unskilled
labor was shadow priced at 50%. Skilled labor, including Government
employees were calculated at full value in view of its short supply.  The
balance of the remaining local cost was shadow priced using the SCF.  The
net incremental value of agricultural production was calculated using the
net margins from the farm models.  An estimated percentage of cereals and
vegetables was assumed in the cropping pattern applied in the three
provinces.
8.        In calculating the economic costs, the following specific
assumptions were made:
Only 25% of the national support (NS) costs were included in the
analysis, since it was estimated that the staff related to the NS
will spend about 25% of its time for development activities in
the Program area,
Recurrent Costs
9.        These include:
-    the annual costq of incremental GOSE staff cum allowances;
-    replacement costp of vehicles, plant and equipment;
-    annual opeiating costs for vehicles, plant and equipment; and
-    other operating costs.



SF8O PI     A 0U     P
Phasin  of   Uli-Scale Prjigatln Develoa t
Zci I 1/                                 boe II 2//             -ta
Akam,l      Reache szl Ft1 QmCative         Amnal       Baache Pll   Qulative           Mmml               ti
year   I&eloiiwt               Dt velopxit   Do'1opment   T*valopiait    Development   Dveoprt   1Iyal                  t
(ha)        (in yegw)        (ha)           (ha)        (in  ea)          (he)          (ha)          (ha)
1         48              6              48                           -            -                48            48
2        224              7             272           100             8             100            324           372
3        430              8             702           430             9             530            860         1,2
4        530              9           1,232           420            10             950      e      50         2,182
5        590             10           1,822           610            11            1,560         1,200         3,382
6        498             11           2,320           520            12           2,080          1,018         4,40
TOTAL    -              11           2,320            -             12            2,(80          -            4,40f)
1/And  Bale and Sidim ProvImm    .
2/  Eaagbe Prosmas.
0% H



-64-                            ANNEX I
Table 6(b)
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Incremental Production From About 18,000 ha Rainfed and 4,400 ha
Irrigated Land Belonging To About 18.000 Beneficiaries
Production      Production with Project   Incremental
Crops           Without Project      at Full Development      Production
(1)                 (2)                    (3)                (4 - 3-2)
Teff                     901.1                  941.4                 40.3
Barley                 4,992.9                5,036.2                 43.3
Wheat                  3,485.2               12,883.8              9,398.6
Maize                  3,023.1               10,989.3              7,966.2
Sorghum                7,839.3               10,913.0              3,073.7
Oat                      274.1                  278.4                  4.3
Pulse                  1,432.3                1,832.4                400.1
Oilseeds                 208.1                  783.0                574.9
Potato                 5,280.0                7,408.0             2,128.0
Tomato                 5,500.0                9,260.0             3,760.0
Onion                  6,050.0                7,408.0              1,358.0
Chillies               3,520.0                4,444.8               924.8
Other Vegetables       6,160.0                9,260.0             3,100.0



SRaAL COa1M AM
Harartie Agr!ultbual Extsim
Twdng of hArasM and w         with sual/, }b2/, sd RM3J
Year I (Pilot)                      Year 2                            Year 3                                Year 4                                TOal
&"rl.Ja            Wbda        SCPAPC                weri      SC   PA PC             i4ned      SC P    PC               Woreda       SC   PA   PC            irema         SC      PA   RC
[kbg"                                                tlbro       8   44  12            Vunt        6    31   13            Gobs odc    5    29    2              3 w3m        19    102       27
QCherchr                                             (dro       18   68   14          IObh         8  34    19             ilto          7  30       9           4 mm         36     159      48
RN"           3   27    6
Wohera                                               Meta       19   81  12                                               Q<bwto        10   57      1           3 wsom       46     37       28
v1er       17   69   15
Qkru lileta                                          Geram       18   71    4          BItanc     12   58      3           Ytzfadwle    8    26    2             3 woeas    38       155       9
lhrar aAria         Alea         15  44   20         tCersa     21)   70   6           Fedis      19   54    8             1 An1e        7    17    9            3'wreda      46     141      23
GQ tu               tCaWoldi    9   23   6                                             Qras        8   87   15             Eldle        3    32    2            2 wris       11     119      17
Dire Wnm                                                                               Qua        11   27      1                                                 IlMaria      11      27       1
Jljlp                                                                                  J1)lya     11  108      1                                                 1Xg1t        U t  t 8
2 wordaa   24  67  26           6wres  ItM    403  63             7 woredas 75   399   60             7woesa    43  218    31              2 wo)red    218   t,020      154
It SC - &rvce Coperatives
2   PA - Peawst Ageodatic,
3/ PC - 1'kudaear Ca~er*tIe.
o. z
OI-4



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAH
Farm Model for Bale and Sidasmo
Value of Crops in Birrs (Financial Prlee)
Without Prolect                                               With Project at Full Developant
Irrigated                                  Irrigated
C r o p a            Rainfed    (Single Cropped)  Total    Rainfed         (DoTble Cropped)       Total   Irrigated (Single Crovped        totnl
(1.225 ha)      0.02Shb        1.25 ha   (I ha)    Cereals    Vegetables   1.25 ha   Cereals         Vegetables   1.25 ha (net)
(net)         _    0.45 ha      0.05 ha       (net)    (0.22 ha)    (0.03 ha)    1.25 ha (gross)
1.25 ha                                       1.50 ha
(gross)                                       (gross)
Teff                             27.07                                    24.1
Barley                          348.39                                   310.2
Wheat                           157.17                                   142.5     513.0                              256.5
Maize                            24.26                                    21.6      63.0                               31.5
Oats                             33.08                                    30.0
Pulses (horse bean)              45.82                                    41.3
Oilseeds (linseed)               17.52                                    15.6      45.9                               22.9
Potato                                           16.80                                            70.0                               35.0                        $
Tomato                                           35.00                                           175.0                               87.5                        0'
Onion                                            33.00                                           120.0                               60.0
Chillies                                         32.00                                           120.0                               60.0
Other Vegetables                                 28.00                                           125.0                               62.5
Gross Value of Crops            653.31          144.80                   585.3     621.9         610.0                310.9         305.0
Net Value after deducting
52 and 202 post harvest
loss for cereals and
vegetables, respectivesy      620.64          115.84                   556.0     590.81        488.0                295.4         244.0
Input Cost                      109.03            8.73                    89.0     160.88         33.66                80.4          16.8
Net Value of crops after
deducttng input cost          511.61          107.11        618.72    467.0      429.93        454.34    1351.27   215.0          227.2      909.2
IA,



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Farm Model for Arsi Region
Value of Crops in Blrre (Financial Prlce)
Without Project                                                With Project at Full Development
Irrigated                                Irrigated
C r o p s            Rainfed    (Single Cropped)   Total    Rainfed    (Double Cropped)           Total      Irrigated (Single Cropped)   Total
(1.105 ha)       0.14           1.25 ha   (Iha)  Cereals    veetables           3 ha)   Cereals         Vegetables  1.25 ha (net)
(net)            0.375 ha    0.125 ha        (net)    (0.187 ha)      (0.063 ha)  1.25 ha (gross)
1.25 ha                                      1.50 ha
(gross)                                      (gross)
Teff                              59.23                                     59.0
Barley                           215.48                                    217.5
Wheat                            245.64                                    248.0     347.25                                  173.6
Maize                             66.30                                     66.0      90.00                                   45.0
Sorghum                           32.49                                     32.3
Pulses                            81.66                                     81.3      13.50                                    6.8                                 1
Oilseed                           15.03                                     15.0      38.25                                   19.1                                 CS
Potato                                            97.44                                            175.0                                    87.5
Tomato                                           203.00                                            437.5                                   218.8
Onion                                            191.40                                            300.0                                   150.0
Chillles                                         185.60                                            300.0                                   150.0
Other Vegetables                                 162.40                                            312.5                                   156.2
Gross Value of Crops             715.83          839.84                    719.1     489.0        1525.0                     244.5         762.5
Net Value after deducting
5 and 20X post harvest
loss for cereals and
vegetables, respectively       680.04          671.87                    683.1     464.55       1220.0                     232.3         610.0
Input Cost                        85.75           50.63                     77.6      128.21        84.15                     64.1          42.0
Net Value of crops after
deducting input cost           594.29          621.24        1215.53    605.5       336.34       1135.85    2077.69        168.2         568.0    1,341.7
012
0*|



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Fare Model for Hararghe Region
Value of Crops in Birre (Financial Price)
Without Project                                         With Project at Full Development
C r o p s
Rainfed   Irrigated         Total          Rainfed  Irrilated (Double Cropped)  Total             Irrigated (Single Cropped)        Total
(1.105 ha) (Single Cropped) 1.25 ha net   (I ha) Cereals            Vegetables    (1.25 net)    Cereals            Vegetables   1.25 ha tnet)
0.145 ha      1.25 ha/gross          (0.375 ha)   (0.125 ha)  (1.50 ha gross) (0.187 ha)           (0.063 ha)   1.25 ha (xross)
Teff                          26.63          -                     29.50       -               -
Barley                         7.74          -                      8.40       -               -
Wheat                         25.79          -                     27.4       53.44            -                        26.7
Maize                         97.68          -                    105.4      288.75            -                       144.4
Sorghum                     448.30           -                    486.9      137.81           -                         68.9
Pulses                        14.81          -                     16.3       13.50            -                         6.8
Potato                         -            97.44                                           175.0                                       87.5
Tomato                                     203.00                                           437.5                                      218.8
Onion                                      191.40                                            300.0                                     150.0
Chillies                                   185.60                                           300                                        1S0.0
Other Vegetables                           162.40                                            312.5                                      156.2
Gross Value of Crop.              620.35        839.84                  673.90    493.50        1,525.0                     246.8            762.5
Net Value after dedueting
52 and 202 post harvest
loss for cereals and
vegetables, respectively        589.33        671.87                 640.2      468.83        1,220.00                    234.4            610.0
Input Cost                        131.72          50.63                 119.2      103.24          84.15                      51.6            42.0
Net Value of crops after
deducting input cost            457.61        621.24    1,078.85   521.0         365.59       1,135.85       2,022.44    182.8             568.0      1,271.8
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



-69-                     AM4EX I
NabIe 8(a)
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
5 and 30 Ha Models Irrigation Schemes Cost Recovery
(Birr7ha) a/
A. Programn Rent
1.  Gross Value of Production                                  2,358
2.  Production Cost-Inputs:  Birr 300; Labor:  286 b/            586
3.  Net Cash Income (1 - 2)                                    1,772
4.  Less:  (i)  Depreciation c/                        127
(ii)  Management PFe d/                    118
(iii)  Risk and Uncertainty e/               354
Subtotal    599         599
5.  Program Rent (3 - 4)                                       1,173
6.  Program Rent % of Net
Cash Income (5:3)                                             66
B, Cost Recovery
(i) Full Amount
7.  Capital Cost                                      218
8.  Operation and Maintenance Cost                     -
9                                        Subtotal    218         218
(ii) Recovered Amount
10.  Capital Cost f/                                   109
11.  Operation andclaintenance Cost g/                   -
12.                                       Subtotal    109         109
13. Rent Recovery as a % of
Program Rent (12:5)                                            9
14. Cost Recovery as a X of Capital and
Operation and Maintenance Cost (12:9)                         50
a/  Expressed in incremental values in 1986 prices.
b/ Estimated at Birr 2 per one unskilled man-labor day;
i.e., Includes estimated value of family labor.
c/  Estimated at 5% of investments-2,545 Birr/ha.
d/  Estimated at 52 of gross value of production.
e/  Estimated at 152 of gross value of production.
f/  Year 1-3, 30X;'4-6, 402; 7-20, 502; 21-30, 602;
average 502.
j/ 1002 (carried out by self-help).



~ 70         ~ANNEx I
Table 8(b)
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
150 Ha Models Irrigation Schemes Cost Recovery
(Birr/ha) a/
A. Program Rent
1.  Gross Value of Production                                   2,358
2.  Production Cost-Inputs:  Birr 300; Labor:  286 b/             586
3.  Net Cash Income (1 - 2)                                     1,772
4.  Less:  (i)  Depreciation c/                         127
(ii)  Management Feed d/                     118
(ii)  Risk and UncertaTnty e/                 354
Subtotal    599         599
5.  Program Rent (3 - 4)                                        1,173
6. Program Rent % of Net
Cash Income (5:3)                                              66
B. Cost Recovery
(1) Full Amount
7.  Capital Cost                                      218
8. Operation and Maintenance Cost                      51
9                                         Subtotal    269         269
(ii) Recovered Amount
10.  Capital Cost f/                                    108
11.  Operation and-haintenance Cost                      51
12.                                        Subtotal    159         159
13. Rent Recovery as a X of
Program Rent (12:5)                                             9
14. Cost Recovery as a X of Capital and
Operation and Maintenance Cost (12:9)                          59
a/ Expressed in Incremental values In 1986 prices.
~/ Estimated at Birr 2 per one unskilled man-labor day;
i.e., includes estimated value of family labor.
c/ Estimated at 5% of investments-2,545 Birr|ha.
d/ Estimated at 5% of gross value of production.
e1 Estimated at 152 of gross value of production.
f/ Year 1-3, 30%; 4-6, 40%; 7-20, 40%; 21-30, 60%;
average 50%.
j/ 100%.



- 71 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Annual Work Program
1.        Annual Work Programs would be submitted by MOA and AIDB and would
cover all Project components. Each Annual Work Progam shall provide
documentation, satisfactory to IPAD/IDA with respect to the following:
(a) a detailed description of the work to be performed, including the
objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each July 7, the schedules of activities, equipment,
requirements, staffing arrangements, training plans, and the
distribution of responsibilities for each item included in the
progam;
(b) a budget for the period covered setting forth:
(i) the proposed capital expenditure;
(ii) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
materials, fuel, and maintenance directly attributed to
activities under the Program, together with a breakdown of
predevelopment and incremental expenditures;
(iii) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the proposed budget and actual expenditures for
the previous year;
(iv) a list of 'all staff employed or to be employed on a
full-time basis by program entities with respect to the
Program; and
(v) a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cash flow
projections, including the Government's contributions to the
Program.
2.        Each Annual Work Program would be supported by the following
information, as may be relevant:
(a) a detailed assessment of the previous year's performance;
(b) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on previous
staffing and proposed increments or reductions;



- 72 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
(c) the proposed training program; and
(d) Government budgetary provision for staff, operating expenses,
inputs, maintenance works and the like.
3.        A detailed review of the following items which impinge on Project
implementationt
(a)  the reorganizati.n of the Agricultural Extension Service;
(b) the build-up of the MOA Zonal Offices in the Program areas,
including staffing, training and establishing the necessary
physical infrastructure;
(c) the availability of essential inputs for agricultural production:
and
(d) the prices of the main agricultural products.
4.        The criteria upon which IFAD's/IDA's approval of a proposed AWP
would be based on:
(a)  the adequacy of such programs foi implementing basic program
objectives consistent with requirements of the Loan Agreement,
the Program Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b) the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial
and manpower resources to implement and sustain the physical
targets set for the ensuing Program year.



- 73 -
Annex III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Small-Scale Irrlgation
A. Objective
1.        The Subprogram is conceived in such a way as to initiate a
self-sustaining process of small-scale irrigation development within a
national policy. This would be achieved through the provision of
institutional support and training to existing structures, both at the
level of farmers' own organizations and government agencies. Apart from
strengthening the Ministry's and especially, the Irrigation Development
Department's capacity, the Subprogram would reinforce the economic,
agricultural and managerial development of organizations at farmers' level,
with particular emphasis on supporting farmer intiatives and training of
farmers' groups to enable them to handle their own irrigation schemes.
2.        The Subprogram would place emphasis on the development of a
low-cost, labor-intensive approach to scheme development, which would
minimize costly infrastructural investment and consequent high maintenance
costs for farmers, and maximize as far as possible the contribution of
beneficiaries to scheme development.
B. Program Components
Irrigation Development
3.        To remove the constraints in the construction, operation and
maintenance of small-scale irrigation, sound irrigation methods and
distribution systems have to be developed.
4.        A number of irrigation methods have been identified.  Irrigation
based on the abstraction of water by gravity from perennial rivers or
springs is by and large the most suitable and economic method for the
following reasons:
-    no storage reservoirs with dams are necessary, consequently,
reducing the requirement for highly skilled engineering staff and
machinery;
-    no pumps are involved, thus limiting the operation and
maintenance costs; and
-    no labor is required to bring water to the fields, thus giving
the opportunity to the farmers to cultivate larger areas*



- 74 -
Annex III
Page 2
5.        As a large number of perennial streams and springs have been
identified in the Program areg, priority is given to the development of
schemes based on gravity irrigation from perennial streams or springs.
6.        Irrigation schemes would consist of a weir with head/regulator,
which discharges water into an earth canal. From this canal, water is
distributed via distribution structures and secondary canals to tertiary
blocks. Each tertiary block would receive a fixed continuous flow of 15-20
1/s. Distribution over the scheme is fixed and, therefore, no regulating
is involved. Within a block of of 5-6 ha, 12-15 farmers would rotate
irrigation. Duration of irrigation per farmer would be then limited to a
half or quarter day, depending on the length of the irrigation cycle.
7.        Drainage systems would be required for evacuating excess water to
the river and to prevent waterlogging. Appropriate structures would be
included at drops, drainage crossings and road crossings. Schemes up to
about 30-50 ha would be operated and maintained by the farmers themselves,
who may be organized in an Irrigation Committee, comprising the
representatives of the tertiary blocks or other forms of association which
have developed traditionally.
8.        The Irrigation Committee would decide how and by whom preventive
maintenance is carried out. Repair of structures would be carried out by
selected farmers, who would receive training during the construction of the
scheme. Occasionally, the assistance of masons and/or carpenters may be
needed.
9.        Irrigation schemes would be constructed with direct labor, using
simple technologies. Most structures would be made of masonry or gabions.
Some machinery is required to limit construction time. This procedure has
the followlng advantages:
-    little machinery is required;
-    use is made of cheap labor;
-    income generation in the rural areas;
-    simple design and implementation procedures; and
-    use of locally available materials.
10.       During the initial phase, priority would be given to the
improvement and extension of existing irrigation schemes. At the same
time, new schemes would be identified, screened and selected for
development. The size of the schemes depends largely on resources such as
suitable land, topography, water and population.
11.       During the first phase of the Subprogram, experience would be
gained In the planning and implementation of schemes of different sizes
5-30 ha, and 150 ha which would enable planners to decide which type of
development should be given priority. The assumed rate of development and
cost estimates are given in the attached Tables 2, 3 and 4.



- 75 -                        Annex III
Page 3_
12.       Support Services,  To enable the farmers and their respective
peasant organizations, as well as the Irrigation Development Department
(IDD) to select, plan, construct and manage the type of irrigation schemes
described in the above chapter, support measures are required.
13.       The support services in the field of irrigation development would
comprise:
-    support to IDD at central level in formulating a national policy
in small-scale irrigation based, inter alia, on the experience
progressively acquired during implementation of specific schemes
in the Program area;
-    establishment of a planning and implementation capacity at IDD
Zonal Offices at Asela ad Harrar;
-    facilitating the construction of road connections to schemes (to
be supported by the WFP); and
-    training for farmers and farmers' organizations in water
management.
14.       It has been stated earlier that there is neither an overall
policy on irrigation in Ethiopia, nor a specific policy on small-scale
irrigation. Under the Subprogram, support would be given to IDD to
formualte a national small-scale irrigation policy framework.  The
experience gained during the individual phases of project implementation
and experiences from other schemes would provide the major input to the
policy formulation. An inventory of existing and potential small-scale
irrigation schemes in Ethiopia would be established in the context of an
irrigation sector study which would comprise technical, managerial,
agronomic and organizational aspects.
15.       The IDD Zonal Departments in the Program area would be involved
in the selection and planning of irrigation schemes according to the
criteria and guidelines developed under the Program (see attachment). They
would also implement construction works in collaboration with the
participating farmers and other respective organizations. The Subprogram
would provide the institutional support to the planning and implementation
service by providing to IDD:
-    incremental technical staff;
-    training of the staff at various levels;
-    technical assistance;
-    vehicles;
-    construction equipment (including tractors, trailers, backhoes,
graders);
-    tools;
-    office facilities; and
-    recurrent costs at a decreas4ng rate.



- 76 -
Annex III
Page 4
16.       A further important input is provision of traininA to farmers and
farmers' organization in water management. Development Agents (!)As), after
special training in Irrigation would train farmers and Irrigation Committee
members. Main subjects of training would be on operation of schemes, water
management and maintenance.
17.       There is still a serious lack of information and data regarding
the available surface water resources for small-scale irrigation
development. Therefore, additonal hydrological information would be
collected regarding:
-    development of a continuous water balance model for the
assessment of runoff potential and hydrologic forecasting;
-    design and establishment of water harvesting methods for
small-scale irrigation schemes; and
=    establishment of an optional water distribution method for
differant irrigation schemes supplied by one perennial stream.
The result of these studies would enable the IDD to assess surface wster
resources in ungauged catchments, to design runoff irrigation systems, and
to guarantee the farmer an equal water distribution in his small-scale
irrigation scheme.
Agricultural Developmet
18.       On-Farm Developnent Measures.  It would be a basic policy that
the farmers, within the limits of their family labor availability, would
continue their rainfed cultivation. In determining the average plot size
for irrigation, two aspects have to be borne in mind. On one hand, the
plot size should be fairly small in order to allow as many beneficiaries as
possible to join the scheme, thus avoiding the creation of a privileged
class of farmers. On the other, the plot size has to provide adequate
income incentives to farmers In order to prevent him from completely
returning to rainfed agriculture and giving up irrigation. Under these
circumstances, an average plot size of 0.25 ha has been considered as a
reasonable compromise. Apart from 0.25 ha irrigated land, the farmer would
carry on with one ha of rainfed agriculture. This would be manageable for
him with the existing family labor available.
19.       Under a small-scale irrigation project, a number of new crops
would be introduced to diversity the cropping pattern. The cropping
pattern would comprise:
-    already known cereals and pulses, especially, wheat, maize,
sorghum, pulses, oilseeds;
-    partly known vegetables, such as onion, chillie, potato, carrot,
cabbage and beetroot.



- 77 -                        Annex III
Page 5
forage crops, like oats and vetch, of which the potential has
been proven in other parts of the country; and
some fruit, like banana and citrus.
20.       Due to improved reliability of water supplies during the main
rainy season and the introduction of an incremental second crop, the
on-farm agricultural development measures under irrigation would result in
increased crop yields and cropping intensities.
21.       Project Support Services.  To achieve the proposed on-farm
development measures, services have to be provided under the Project:
' - agricultural extension services; and
-    support to research on irrigated agriculture.
22.       The existing Agricultural Extension Service in its coverage and
expertise does not meet the requirements of irrigation development.
Presently, the ratio between the Development Agent (DA) and the individual
farmer is about of 1 to 2,000 which would be grossly insufficient for the
introduction of small-scale irrigation practices among peasants who have
limited tradition in irrigated agriculture.
23.       Under PADEP there will be an overall improvement in the coverage
ratio of 1 to 1,300-1,700 which, however, will only be achievable over a
number of years. Simultaneously, there will also be a restructuring of the
extension service at the lower level. DAs will be attached to Service
Cooperatives and will thus be more directly involved in peasant's affairs.
Estimated PADEP extension ratios will be higher, but still insufficient for
project purposes. Although the changes to be introduced under PADEP are
promising, the Program would have to effect changes in its area of
influence.
24.       The program would provide funding for the incremental extension
staff. Fields of training to DAs provided under the Program would
encompass irrigation practices and crop husbandry.
25.       Presently there is a lack of applied research in the field of
smallholders irrigated agriculture. To overcome the present lack, research
work in the following fields would be supported by the Program:
-    selection of suitable crops for irrigatica
-    water consumption levels
-    identification of planting/sowing dttes
-    suitability of crop varieties
-    water management.



- 78 -
Annex III
Page 6
26.       The Institute of gricultural Research (IAR) would be responsible
for the formulation and implementation of the research program by
utilizing its staff at IAR substation level and by coordinating research
activities at national level.



- 79 -
0wrt 1: RTM12Mst of Oltera for f-ale Ire gtion
Sdwus Seection
Sequence Plennig/           Type of Studyl
tnptn_cs tioe Steps         tawestigetieo                      Criteria h ,akia    Precoedicte
1.                  of Ufcoenetie A  ao nicrrsme/  TeSQnieallAtacultural Crteia
S*JIn SCane            fdtreliedoery Dcign    -  Adequee/per eeial Water resoures                         a
Uoo- Slo preferably not meet then f                         X
I  -  Pretrblt mn  eroeioen/e plues in
I                                          cbtsa    res                                             x
I                                      -  Suitable b icre-relief                                   a
I                                       -  Suitable wateg  uality                                  x
I                                      -  Voter use up-streUm. down-str_               x
I                                       -   reieten in cachbmet aeax
I-  Atitde prefrablty nt hiheor then
2 100 a
I                                      -  mnima eoil 4deph I a
I                                      -  Seilc - not too sandy. too $tosy                         x
2.  Scr nninlt                                             o    d)         Stec n £   Criterie
I)-  PA  peeredes to agree to land
I   )                    reallocation to the  _m im  nWer of
beneficiaries                                           a
CoIparative            PAG preparednen      to appty to &OA for
) recotaissaee.          land us  aChOrisetioestabliatioen                        a
I                ) incl. pretimidry   -  Fcrse to be _   tof PA and SC 
I                ) soct-ecioomsic       -  Prepartdntss to contribute throuwh fre
I                )  rsuxrvipraetiary       lbodeur/crdit to seheme constructmi.uL'                 r
I                ) design              - entficiris'p pepared ness to rep
overde to_ns /geemnt eo 4ebt rescheuling                x
!                )        * *          -   reparedess to accept tend ocupancy
)         f              mapping tsbre re"quirtd                     x
I                )                     -    wevidene of ormt r self-help activities    x
I                )                     -  *ood relief status in lies with BC/ID
I                )                        4rought Criteria 
-  Pretadness to todge * D 
I                )                     -  Peesantx to decide  appropriate toro  ot
I                )                        scheme oraisetion                                        a
Sborttisting                                    sc    Criurin
I                                      -  feoTO  sppIl situtation/merkets in
respectiv  are                              a
I                                      -A xesoibility                                  a
A. Otcit l Ptannin          Feasibility Stdy       Crico  ri   *y
{hno" t}              ftelimidna   Design    -                                                          a
It- fR  minimm 1314Y                                       x
I-  ftres hae formed appropriate grops                     x
5. jjleton/A vowel
6.   Detailed Plmngin       Detailed Design        tecnicl Criteri
tphsse 11)                                   ;        l- Deig  criteria for canals
*  Dteign criteria for structures
6.  Earnest
Ivaluation PA%
In  dlrouht-Sffected  areas,  destitute  faersxs  would  be  eempted  freo  tree  labour
provision.  They would  obtain  toed foer VW     assistance tfro  the Project. in line with
AIRUI   ctiteria.
2/   Yh to land is r-allocstesd by A P  to matmits  the  umbt  of irtigation beefticiaries.
Ia"  occupancy  naping  esy  be r4quiredt  e) as the bsis of app liction  to RDtfor
occUPancy certifIeee; b) to "Sit is deising suitable r4infed erae" to be atlocated to
PA    kgon as compensation for an  reduetise in their pesently itrigable ares; c) ts the
bsics tor menito0ing  changes in a1dt   ocpay ovr time: d) to  assist  in eventual
tln-us  planing in the villag.
UUt3 * tcoa_mie internal rate of return.
) no  a"ppiceble to scrto-scheme
4      t tIt * tinacial rate Of totu. 



- 80 -
ANNEX III
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Irrigation Scheme Development 1/
(ha)
New Schemes                 Rehabilitation
Scheme             Arsi/Bale                  and Extension of
Size   Hararghe   Sidamo          Total      Existing Schemes   Total
Year   (ha)      (1)          (2)                          (4)           (3)+(4)
1    Upto 5    -             5               5              25              30
6-30       -           10             10               60             70
31-200    -            -                            -
-           15             15               85            100
2    Upto S    -            20              20              75              95
6-30       -           25             25              150            175
31-200    -            -                              150            150
-            _           -45                375            420
3    Upto 5       20        40              60             125             185
6-30         50        40             90              240            330
31-200      150        -             150              150            300
220        80            300             515             815
4    Upto 5       25        45              70             175             245
6-30        100        50            150             300             450
31-200      100        50            150              150            300
225       145            370             625             995
5    Upto J       50        50             100             200            300
6-30        150        50            2C0              300            500
31-200      120        50            170              150            320
320       150            470             650           1,120
6    Upto 5       50        50             100             200            300
6-30        150        50            200             300             500
31-200      150       -              150            -                150
350       100            450             500             950
Total Upto 5      145       210             355             800          1,150
6-30        450       225            675           1,350             202
31-200      520       100            620             600             122
1,115      535           1,650           2,750          4,400
1/ Areas shown lndicate completed irrigation schemes.



- 81 -
ANNEz5X UI
Table -3
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Basic Assumptions for Cost Estlimates of Irrigation Schemes
Model                                     5 ha             30 ha             150 ha       Total
Total Area (ha):
(a)  New Schemes                                  355               615                630        1,650
(b)  Rehabilitation of Existing schemes           800             1,350                600        2,750
(a) + (b)                                  1,480             2,700              1,q2O       4,400
Value of Construction Work in X
Materi2l                                            15               20                 25       Weighted
Equipment                                          15                20                 25       Average
Skilled labor                                      15                20                 20           601I
Unskilled labor                                    55                40                 30           40
Total                                        too               ion                ii) to
Cost per ha/l                                     900             1,500              2,500
Cost of Equipment 1/ $/ha                         135               300                625
Specified Deductions for Usig
Equipment $/ha - Z of Categor
Readvorks/Intake
Excavation                                      5 - 50            4 - 50             15 - 60
Main Canal
Excavation                                     75- 30           166- 50             333- 50
Distribution System
Sec Canal                                      40 - 20           90 - 30            150 - 30
Sec Drains                                     15 - 15           30 - 20             75 - 30
Levelling                                       -    -            -    -             10- 20
Sec Structures                                  -    -            -    -             42 - 50
135  -          300   -             625
Cost per ha/$ ex Equipment                      765            1.200               1,375
Value of Construction Works on
Equipment in I
Material                                            18                25                  33
Skilled labor                                       18                25                  27
Unskilled labor                                     64                50                  40
Total                                              100               100                 10(
1/ Rehabilitation of existing schemes was assumed to cost 502 of construction of new schemes. No
modifications were made in the composition of works. Rehabilitation cost was estimated for:
Model:                                        5 ha             30 ha              150 ha
'With value of wrlk done by using
equipment $/ha                                 450               750               1,250
Without value of wotk done by
using equipment $/ha                           380               600                 940



ETIIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROCRAM
IRRIGATION SCHEMES - COST ESTIMATE
lInit    Rate         5 ha. Sche,e         30 ha. Scheme       150 ha. Scheme
(115$)     Ouantit    USS       Ontantity     U       Obantity   USS
I.  Ileadworks and Intake
Excavation, Earthvorks         .3          5          10       50           50         250       750      3,750
Masonry                        .3        100           I      100           20       2,0no       300     30,o00
Pipe, Gates                               LS          -        -             - _0o                -      18,750
Pitching RockfIll              ml         70          5       350           25       1.750       250     17,500
Sublotal                                                      son                    4,5nn 7_0,0_0
2.  Ma1n Canal
Excavation, Earthworka         .3          5        250    1,250        5.000       10,000   20,000    100,000
LWning                                     LS        -        -            -         2,500               12,000
Drop Strnetuires               Nos.    1,000         _        -              2       2,000         6      6,000
Destrtb. Stnuctwre, Out lets   Nos.  5sl0-2000                501            3       3,noo         8     16,000
Brtdges                        Nos.        250        1       250            2         50s         4      1,000                      c
Cross Drainage                 Nos.    2,000
Subtotal                                                    2,000                   18,000              135,000 
3.  Ofstrlbution System
Sec. canals                    us         2-5       500    1,0oo        3,n00        9,000   15,000      75,000
Sec. Drains                    m          1-2.5     500       500       1,0on        4,00   15.000      17,500
Tertiac tes (Earthworks)      ha         51)-10 o      5      250           30       2,100       150     15,000
Sec. Striecteres              Nos.      300-500       _        _             5       1.500        25     12,500
Wasteways                     Nos.       2,500                    -         - _  _                 4     10,000
Farm fBrflges                 NOR.         250        -        -            4        1.n00        10      2,500
levelling                     ha            50        5       250           30       1,500       150      7.500
Others                                       -        -        -             -       2,900         -     10,000
Sdibtota                        -                           20W                     22,      _ _        170.000
Total ( 1+2+3)                                                  4     son               40 noo              375,000 n4
$/ha                                                     900    _                1.500o               2.500
M H



- 83 -                   ANNEX IV(a)
Page I
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
A. Conservation Based Agronomic Trials in Hararghe
Introduction
1.        In Ethiopia, soil conservation is understood by most people to
mean mechanical protection works, that is bunds, terraces, drains and other
works which have a structural content and require building or
earth-moving. During the last five years, the soil conservation program
has built an Impressive amount of these structural works, assisted by
food-for-work (FFW) programs. But it is increasingly realized that a
conservation program based only on mechanical works may slow down the rate
of degradation, but does nothing toward solving the root cause of the
problem. The FAO Ethiopia Highlands Reclamation Study (EHRS) coined the
term "conservation based agricultural development" to describe a broader
approach in which improved farming would be combined with structural soil
conservation. Conservation based farming systems means bringing together
structural conservation works and biological soil conservation. Many
agronomic practices can be very effective in reducing erosion while at the
same time improving the productivity of the land. Examples on arable land
are (i) improving the protective cover through vigorous dense crops which
reduce splash erosion, and (ii) reducing runoff through better physical
condition of the soil. Biological soil conservation means using practices
like this.
2.        Within MOA, Community Forest and Soil Conservation Department
(CFSCD) is responsible for soil and water conservation programs. This
department has done Impressive soil conservation work which, however,
consist of mostly mechanical protection works and planting of forest trees
and grass and legumes. But neither the CFSCD nor the ADD has so far dealt
with biological soil conservation practices to reduce soil erosion and
raise productivity of agricultural crops because CFSCD does not have the
mandate of dealing with agricultural crops and ADD considered soil
conservation as mechanical protection work outside the purview of their
department. Most of ADD trials have been located on flat or gently sloping
land and are not large enough to encompass conservation based trials.
However, during the mission's visit, the matter was discussed with CFSCDD,
ADD, IAR and AUA and a consensus was reached that soil conservation
practices for agricultural crops should be included under adaptive trial
and demonstration program run by ADD with inputs from CFSCD, AUA and Animal
Husbandry and Feed Development Department (AHFDD). A close collaboration
of these agencies is necessary in the design and implementation of adaptive
trials on steeply sloping agricultural land which require mechanical and
biological soil conservation practices, including cultivation of forage
pasture.



84 -ANNEX n (a)
Page 2
Site Selection
3.        The adaptation and development of suitable conservation based
farming systems will require the use of relatively large test sites, e.g. 5
to 20 ha. The test sites would be selected according to the priority
ranking of the agro-ecological zones in the region so that each site is
representative of major agricultural areas. In addition they would also be
representative of a given catcheent area and would Include the pertinent
range of topographical conditions. Six sites are planned In total: one
introduced in PY I, two in PY 2 and the other three In Pn 4 after the
mid-term review. The large size of these Conservation Trial Sites (CTS)
would make land aequisition difficult. CTS would, therefore, be
established on farmers land.
Trial Design
4.        The design of the CTS would, following soil and water
conservation practices include, depending upon the topography, rainfall,
soil type, etc, the typical soil conservatlon structures built under the
direction of CFSCDD, and:
(a) Alley Cropping - this will initially be based on Leucaena and
Sesbania, and would incorporate other genera where suitable;.
(b)  Strip Cropping - this is particularly pertinent to the lower
slope classes and to the incorporation of pasture ley or fodder;
(c)  Intercropring - intercropping is especially useful with row
planted crops to provide soil cover and to Increase total crop
production per unit of land area. Clover a an lntercrop would
enhance forage production;
(d) Contour Ploughing - this is a standard conservation practice
which can be readily adopted within the above and other
practices;
(e) Minimum Tillage - all methods aimed at greatly reducing tillage
operations to preserve the soil structure and minimize erosion;
(f)  Cover Crops - during maximum rainfall,
These and similar treatments would be included on large single plots at
least two hectare size in a given CTS. There would be little need for
replication within a site since the major objective is to test the
technical and economic feasibility of the various soil and water
conservation practices under farmer conditions.



- 85 -
ANNEX IV(a)
Page 3
Organization
5.        In order to minimize undue duplication of technical services,
manpower and resources the CTS would be brought under the existing National
Field Trials Program being implemented by the ADD. The proposed
organizational structure is shown in Chart I to allow the integration of
conservation trials within the overall framework of the NFTP.
Basically,the proposed structure involves the cooperation of technical
service units from each major department in a Conservation Agriculture Unit
(CAU) to plan, coordinate and supervise the operation of CTSs. At the
zonal level the Zonal Coordinators of the NFTP will be responsible for
supervising the management of the CTSs and a Site Manager will be required
for the day to day operation of each CTS. The proposed linkages are shown
in the information flow diagram given in Chart 2. Soil and water
conservation practices found promising in CTS would be released for
validation in On-Farm-Applications (OFA) under farmer condition. About 30
OFA trial/demonstration sites are planned during the program period. Each
OFA would address a single technology (e.g., strip cropping, alley
cropping, minimum tillage, etc.). Technologies which are validated in OFA
would be pasased on to the Development Agents--the field level extension
worker--for inclusion in Field Demonstration Plots. About 100 of these are
planned.



- 86 -
ETHIOPIA                             ANNEX IV (a)
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM                       Cbart I
Proposed Organization for the Integration of Conservation
Trials within the National Field Trials Program
DEPARTMENT                  ADD l/              CFSCD -                ARD3/   AAU 4/
TECHNICAL UNITS             ?LU                  sCU                  F8            LI
?.oaiolcl              soil                 Pl           soil
conservation
Service          CoasorvatioR            37te          unit
USit                vat               Di*olopmeat
Arioulture
thit
^iv
ADAPTIVE TRIALS           IS3                           CTS
1.ld                       Co6eCoarwt o
fina      *                   Trial
site.                         Sites
(2jii)                     (5 to iO ha)
I                             I
VALIDATION                OPT                            ,'A
as Fau ^.0 h m
Trial                     Application
(no)
I                   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'
DEMONSTRATION            FD M5
Daowastrtio                  Deoaftwatio
PFlos                          Mlso
(IPA.)                        (PAS)
1/ ADD - Agricultural Development Department
2/ CFSCD - Community Forest and Soil Conservation Department
3/  AHFDD - Animal Husbandry and Feed Development Department
4/ AAU - Alemaya Agricultural University



-87-
ANNEX IV(a)
Chart 2
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Proposed Information Plow within the Expanded NFTP
ZONES                               NATIONAL
KI-SITS NMANRA_
ANUAi WORIMROPS                              (Is.)               (CTs.)
IZOAL                    TU                   AU
COODINATOR
ZONAL U:                  - ' I                  NATIOAL lEWl4
pROFpE TRAININ  QUCU   ORUISM E E ACTIITB
FIL.D TRASZON                                       CONSEVA.TION  T RIALS
Fl'S -------p  haBlo 3ztesuiou Trainlig  1                 CTS
tfo Avrwja officers
I UDA
or?       h         toy Activity Trallg                     OFA
for DArn
1/ RELC - Research Extension Linkage Committee.



- 88 -
ANNEX IV (b)
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
IFAD Special Country Program Paper
Soil Conservation
Introduction
1.        The degradation of the natural resources in the highlands of
Ethiopia is severe and increasing at an alarming rate. The fundamental
problem concerns the growing demands of both human and livestock
populations on limited, but diminishing, land resources.
2.        The serious droughts of 1973/74 and 1984/85 have led to appalling
famines related, In large part, to the reduced moisture-retention capacity
of the truncated soil profile to support plant growth. On this basis,
future droughts will undoubtedly produce even worse effects.
Policies and Programmes
3.        The 1973/74 drought focussed attention on the problems of
degradation and the 1974 Land Reform Act and the subsequent formation of
Peasant Associations (PAs) have provided the means of mobilizing labor for
national conservation programs.
4.        Ten-year Develoment Plan.  The Government's Ten-Year Development
Plan (1981-1990) gives priority to soil and water conservation activities
and specifies main objectives and targets for these activities. 1/ The
plan focusses on the implementation of catchment rehabilitation ictivities,
particularly on the badly eroded highland areas of Welo, Tigray, Eritrea
and Northern Shewa regions, affecting some 5 million people.
5.        Conservation Programs.  The scale of conservation activity in the
Ethiopian highlands has expanded rapidly with external assistance so that,
in recent years, around 35 million man-days per annum have been mobilized
for this purpose. The program's twin emphasis have been on bunding on crop
lands and on reafforestation with terraces on denuded hillsides. More than
830,000 km of bunds and terraces have been built and over 470 million trees
planted on about 700,000 ha of the highlands with variable degrees of
success. While these achievements are impressive, they are dwarfed by the
scale of continuing degradation and deforestation, with an estimated
100-200,000 ha of natural forest being destroyed each year.
1/ National Plan for Conservation of Natural Resources -
Summary Report: Ministry of Agriculture, 1984 (in Amharic).
2/ Recently increased to a total of 44 main catchments.



-89-ANNE  IV (b)
Pa-ge-72    
approach has been adopted for planning purposes, implementation has
necessarily been limited to a phased schedule of sub-catchment treatment.
The program has tended to concentrate on more accessible food-deficit areas
comprising some 22,000 k.2, as shown below, using food-for-work (FFW) to
mobilize labor:
Region              No. of Catchments           Total Area
(1b0b ha)-
Eritrea                    4                         239.1
Tigray                     7                         195.9
Welo                       7                         718.7
Hararge                    7                         240.0
Shewa                      5                         572.5
Gondar                     3                         209.6
Gojam                      1                          16.1
fimo Gofa                  1                          24.7
Total                   35                       2,216.-6
.-_
It should be stressed that the major emphasis in this conservation program
to date has been on structural, as opposed to vegetative measures.
7.        Reafforestation Campaign.  A campaign to encourage all members of
the population to plant more trees is to be launched In 1986. It will
complement rather than replace ongoing conservation programs.
8.        Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation Study (EHRS).  This study was
undertaken by FAO in 1983/85 on behalf of the GOE, in order to formulate a
long-term strategy for the development of the Ethiopian highlands. The
report 3/, submitted in 1985, defined a conservation-based development
strateg7y. The most important element of the strategy involves the
integration of improved agricultural production methods with conservation
methods: this implies an increased emphasis on vegetative measures and, in
particular, improved cultural practices to take full advantage of
structural conservation measures. A second key element of conservation-
based development is the motivation of the local people through the
introduction of a particlpatory approach towards plannnig for the
appropriate use of availabie resources.
9.        The EHIRS describes a range of activities necessary to implement
such a conservation-based development strategy. These include education,
land use policies, land tenure arrangenents, prizing, human ard livestock
population control, cropping, agro-forestry and silvo-pastoral svstems,
improvement of communications and the promotion of small-scale industries.
A detailed discussion of all these measures and others is presented in the
EHRS report and working papers.
3/ Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation Studv, FAO, 1985.



- 90 -                  ANNEX IV(b)
Page 3
Program Area
10.       As discussed in para. 3.01, the Eastern Zone was selected for the
initial focus of conservation activities under the program.
11.       Serious erosion occurs throughout the Eastern Highlands primarily
as a result of exploitative use of land through practices whi ch leave the
soil unproteeted from the erosive impact of intense rainfall. / The
widespread practice of growing annual cereal crops on steep sTopes without
protective measures reduces the potential for sustained production in these
areas.
12.       Very high and extreme erosion hazards associate with the steep
areas of the Highland Crest, and parts of the Southern Plains of Chercher,
Webera and Garamuleta awrajas. The erosion hazards are generally less in
Habro and Harar Zuria awrajas and least important in Gursum and Jijiga
awrajas. There are 13 priority catchments, under the WFP project, where
ongoing soil conservation activities have been concentrated since 1979.
13.       In overall terms, about 23% of the priority catchment areas have
been treated with conservation measures which probably represent about half
the area requiring treatment.'5 These results are impressive and the
standard of works are generalTy higher than other catchments in the Central
Highlands of North Shewa and Welo regicis. In this context, it should be
noted that there is some tradition in tue Hararghe highlands of terraced
cropland, particularly in association with the important cash crops,
'Chat.' Moreover, livestock are tethered during the cropping season which
reduces the damage to structures.
14.       Whereas earlier attention had tended towards the protection of
the higher steep areas with terracing and afforestation, conservation on
the lower cropland areas now absorbs about 75% of labor inputs. The entire
program has concentrated resources on structural conservation measures and
attempts to introduce agroforestry and grass/legume species for bund
stabilization and fodder production have been disappointing.
15.       There are some 29 emall tree nurseries (0.25-2 ha) in the
vicinity of the 13 priority catchments, primarily to support the
complementary community forestry work. In addition, CFSCDD also operate
four grass/fodder nurseries (1.53-3 ha) and one fruit-tree nursery. At
local level, there are a further 170 small nurseries run voluntarily by
PA/PCs, schools, urban dwellers, etc.
4/ Sheet and rill erosion are primarily a function of the temporal
relationships between rainfall erosivity and degree of ground cover.
5/  Reported figures compare treated areas with total area, rather than
area requiring treatment.



- 91 -
ANNEX IV(b)
Page 4
16.       FAO are providing technical assistance to support the
Introduction and propagation of promising grass/legume/multipurpose tree
species.6/ However, the limited resources at field level, particularly in
terms of trained supervisory staff and transport, are given as important
reasons for the poor results so far.
17.       The zonal CFSCDD assured the mission that more effort was now
being given to vegetative measures and concurred with the program proposal
to strengthen this activity. Nursery management is generally good, but the
skills and supervision needed for grass seed production are considerably
greater than those for the production if tree seedlings. Field staff
reported that Phalaris and Setaria species generally performed well over
1,500 m whereas Rhodes grass, Pigeon pea and Leucaena species did well at
lower altitudes.
18.       An assured water supply is essential for nursery development and
the availability of land for new sites was repeatedly mentioned as a
potential problem/constraint.
6/ FAO Assistance to Soil and Water Conservation Programme Phase II.



- 92 -
92 -               ~~~~ANNEX V
Page
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Agricultural Extension
1.        Under the program, the extension service would be reorganized to
provide more systematie and regular extension visits to PAs by better
trained and equipped DAs. Concepts of the training and visit system (T&V)
would be used but would be adapted to current Ethiopian conditions
especially the extension workerefarmer ratio which would remain low for the
immediate future. Lessons arising from the evaluation of the -ngoing pilot
T&V study have been incorporated In the project.
2.        The Service Cooperative (SC) would be the focus of extension
activities. The objective would be to bring MOA extension services closer
to the individual farmer and attempt to close the current communication
gap. In principle, each Development Agent (DA) would be based at a SC and
service the PAs and PCs which are members of the SC. SCs would provide the
DA with office space and a house. Provision of accommodation is seen as an
important incentive in achieving the extension reorganization and location
of DAs at SCs. At present, all SCs do not have a DA. Provision has been
made in the project to recruit one DA for each SC in the selected woredas.
3.        DAs would be multi-purpose extension agents covering the main
technical fields of crop and livestock production and soil and water
conservation. The home economic section of MOA which provides extension
services to rural women, would be an integral part of the extension
service. The program would operate through mass meetings once every four
weeks with groups of farmers in PAs and with individual on-farm training of
contact farmers (CF), four for every group of 100 PA members. CFs and
group representatives would also receive priority under the MOA farmer
training program. Each DA would service 1,200-1,700 farmers, in the
equivalent of 3-5 PAs within a radius of about 7 km, spend 4 days of each
week visiting PAs and CFs/groups on a pre-arranged regular schedule, one
half day in the office, with one day being free for unforeseen activities.
One day every month would be set aside for in-service training. Thus, on
average, each farmer group would be visited by the DA once each four
weeks. The DA would also handle farmer demonstration plots (FDPs) under
supervision of the woreda and awraja based staff. He would be divested of
most regulatory, administrative and promotional activities.
4.        Each woreda would include 10-12 DAs supervised and coordinated by
a Woreda Extension Coordinator based at the woreda office. The team leader
would be designated as Extension Coordinator. DAs would be technically
accountable to the Woreda Extension Coordinator who would spend most of his
time in the field with DAs and be given minimal administrative duties.
Training of DAs would be conducted one day every four weeks by awraja
subject matter specialists (SMSs).



93                        AMNE V
Page 2
5.        The current staff structure in awraja offices would remain
largely unchanged. Functions of specialist Awraja staff would be
supervision of activities in woredas (both project and non-project) and
staff training, especially DAs, an activity which would be greatly
expanded. An Awraja Extension Cbordinator would coordinate all awraja
extension activities. The Team Leader would be designated as Extension
Coordinator.  Avraja level Agronomist, Plant Protectionist, Animal
Scientist, Veterinary Specialist and Soil and Water Conservation Specialist
would primarily act as Subject Matter Specialists for the selected woredas.
Other technical staff currently stationed in awrajas, such as home
economist, cooperative organizer, forestry specialist and so on, would
continue to be responsible for the entire awraja. Awraja SMS would conduct
training for woreda staff on a regular basis, usually one day ecch four
weeks. They would receive regular monthly training from the zonal
technical staff who would, in turn, be trained at the workshops conducted
by Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA) scientists. The extension
service would be supported by the Extension Material Production Unit.
6.        Over six years, it is anticipated that about 220 DAB would be
deployed in 20 high potential woredas to service about 218 SCs with 1,020
member PAs. The project would provide each woreda office 2 motorcycles and
each awraja office one pickup and 4 motorcycles for the movement of the
Extension Coordinators and SMS. Two four-wheel drive vehicles would be
provided for the zonal staff directly involved with extension project
supervision.
Training
7.        Under the program, It is proposed to greatly strengthen all
aspects of staff and farmer training. Seven main types of training would
be used: (i) introduction to the new extension system: (IL) special
courses in extension methodology and farmer communication techniques; (iII)
annual in-service training courses; (iv) initiation training for SMS;
(v) regular monthly training for all extension staff (SMS, DAs); (vi)
in-country fellowships to SMS for second degree/post graduate diploma at
AUA; and (vii) overseas short-term fellowships and long-term fellowships
for second degree training.
Proposed Extension Training
Extension Orientation
Extension Project Orientation One Day Seminar
Participants
Zonal Planning Commissioners
AIDB Regional/Branch Managers
CBE Regional/Branch Managers
AISCO Representatives
ESC Representatives
AUA Research Extension Coordinators
AMC Branch Manager



-94                         ANNEJCV
Page 3
Content - The Extension Project
-    Rationale
-    Objectives
-    Detailed Features
-    Organization and Management
-    Operational Systems
-    Role of Each Actor
-    The Extension Service
-    Expected Project Benefits
This seminar wowlld be conducted at the Zone, awraja and woreda level with
participants varying accordingly. It would be conducted in those awrajas
and woredas as they are phased into the Project. The Seminar would be
conducted by the Zonal General Manager assisted by the Extension
Coordinator.
Extension Orientation - 20 Working Days
Participants
Zone, Awraja, Woreda Extension Coordinators
Zone, Awraja - Subject Matter Specialists
Research Extension Coordinators
Contents
The Extension Service
Concepts of Training and Visit System
The Pilot T&V Project
Lessons of the T&V Project to date
Definition of Agricultural Extension
Farmer Communication Concepts
The Role of Extension Coordinators and SMS
Work Planning and Supervision
Technology Generation Program
Importance of Defining reliable technology by AEZ
Importance of knowing local farming systems.
Rural Sociology--an introduction
Extension Methodology and Communication
The course would be conducted by the Zonal General Manager using locally
available resources--Research, Farming Systems, Extension, T&V staff, and
Technical Assistance staff. A visit would be made to the T&V pilot project
where T&V staff, including DA would relate their practical experience with
improved extension.
Extension Orientation - 15 working days
Participants
Woredas Extension Coordinator and Woreda Technicians, Woreda
Development Agents.



_ 95 _                    ANNEX V
Page 4
Content
Similar to 2 above but a lower level. Special emphasis on basic
rural sociology, communication with farmers, learning local farm
systems, the extension system, group extension activities,
selecting contact demonstratior. plots, technology definition.
Course conducted at awraja level by zonal, awraja SMS.
Subject Matter Specialist - 40 working days initiation training
Participants
Zonal, awraja, SMS
Content
Updating of knowledge in specialized fields
-    livestock production
-    crop production
-    pest control
-    soil and water conservation
Conducted by
Alemaya University, HQ subject matter specialists, Technical
Assistance, consultants.
Annual Training
Extension Coordinators         -  10 day seminar
Subject Matter Specialists    -  15 day seminar
Development Agents             -  15 day skill upgrading
Internal Fellowships
5 annual Fellowships to awraja SMS for secoild degree/post
graduate diploma study at Alemaya University.
Overseas Fellowships
Extension Coordinators
5 x 3 month Fellowships annually to attend special
extension/training courses.
Subject Matter Specialists - Zonal, Awraja
5 x 3 month Fellowships annually to attend special skill
upgrading courses at University, Research Centers, International
Research Centers.



-96-                      ANNEX V
Page S
Long-Term Fellowships
2 x 1-1/2 year Fellowsh.p for 2nd degree training through an
overseas University, with research/thesis work done in Ethiopia
supervised by ILCA or Alemaya per year for four years.
All fellowship training would be project related and based on an individual
skill gap analysis.
Technical Assistance (TA)
8.        The project would provide 3 staff years of internationally
recruited staff in the disciplines of extension, training and
communication. Estimated costs have been based on Birr 21,000/staff year,
including salary, travel costs and other benefits. The TA staff would
conduct not less than two months of structured training annually.



- 97                     ANNEX V
Table 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Agricultural Extension
Crop Varieties Released in Ethiopia since 1968
Country of          Year of
No.        Variety                  Origin            Release        Remarks
A.      WHEAT
1.     Enkoy (K.4500 16A4)      Ethiopia/Kenya        1974
2.     Romany BC                Kenya/Mexico          1974
3.     Dereselegn
(C18154-FR2)             Mexico               1974
4.     K 6290 Bulk               Kenya                1977
5.     ET 13 A2                  Ethiopia             1980
6.     K 6295-4A                Kenya                 1980
7.     Boohai                   Mexico                1982        Durum
S.     Dashen (Vearv 12)        Mexico                1984       New release
9.     Baru (Sunbird 4)         Mexico                1984        New release
10.     Gara (Bobwhite 5)        Mexico                1984       New release
B.      MAIZE
1.     Alemaya composite        Ethiopia              1973
2.     Bako composite           Ethiopia              1970
3.     KCC                      Kenya                 1971
4.     KCE                      Kenya                 1970
5.     KCB                      Kenya                 1971
6.     UCA                      Tanzania              1971
7.     UCB                      Tanzania              1971
8.     SR 52                    Zimbabwe              1970
9.     H 611                    Kenya                 1072
10.     H 613 B                  Kenya                 1970
11.     H 632                    Kenya                 1970
12.     H 622                    Kenya                 1971
13.     H 511                    Kenya                 1970
14.     H 512                    Kenya                 1972
15.     A 511                    Ethiopia/             1973
Awassa
16.     A 512                    Ethbipia/             1973
Awassa
17.     Katumani                 Kenya                 1975
18.     EAR 75                   Ethiopia              1975



-98-                            ANNEX V
Table 1
Page 2
Country of          Year of
No.        Variety                  Origin             Release        Remarks
C.      BARLEYS
1.     Atlas 57                  USA                   1970
2.     Composite 29              USA                   1973
3.     C.63                      USA (?)               1970
4.     Beka (Malting)            France                1973
5.     Mari                      Sweden                  -
6*     Unitan                    USA                   1970
7.     Proctor (Malting)         Kenya/UK              1973
8.     Holkar                    Ethiopia              197'
9.     IAR/H/485                 Ethiopia              1974
D.      LINSEED
1.     Concurrent                Holland               1978
2.     Dakota                    USA                     -
3.     Victory                   USA                   1978
4.     CI 1525                   France                1984        New release
5.     CI 1652                   Ireland               1984        New release
E.      SORGHUM
1.     ETS 2752                                          -
2.     Alemaya 70                Ethiopia/Alemaya    1970
3.     ETS 3235                  Ethiopia/Merabete   1978
4.     IS 9521                   S. Africa/ICRISAT   1981
(Bakomash 80)
5.     Dedessa 1057              Ethiopia/Dedessa    1973
6.     Gambella 1107             Ethiopia/Gambella   1976
7.     Kobomash 76               India/ICRISAT         1976
8.     Melkamash 79              India/ICRISAT         1979
9.     Asfaw's white             Ethiopia/Bako         1973
10.     IS 9302                   S. Africa/ICRISAT   1984          New release
F.      _TEF
1.     DZ-01-354                 Ethiopia/Chorre       1970
2.     DZ-01-787                 Ethiopia/Wolenkomi  1978
3.     DZ-01-196                 Ethiopia/Becho        1970
4.     Cross 37                  Ethiopia/Debruzit   1984          New Release
Rezeit
G.      SOYABEAN
1.     Clark 63
2.     Coker 240
3.     Davis



- 99 -
ANNEX V
Table 1
Page 3
Country of         Year of
No.        Variety                 Origin            Release       Remarks
H.      HARICOT BEAN
1.     Mexican 142                                   1972
2.     Ethiopian 10             Ethiopia/Awassa      1970
I.      HORSEBEAN
1.     CS 20 DK                 Ethiopia/Arsi        1977
2.     Kuse 2-27-33             Ethiopia/Addis
Alem                1980
J.      RAPESEED
1.     Target                   Canada               1976
2.     Tower                    Canada               1984       New Release
3.     Pura                     W. Germany           1984       New Release
K.      MUSTARD
1.     Awassa Population        Ethiopia/Awassa      1977
2.     S.67                     Ethiopia/Awassa      1977
L.      SESAME
1.     T 85                     Uganda/India         1976
M.      GROUNDNUT
1.     Shulamith                Israel               1976
Source: IAR



ANNEX V.
- 100-
T.able 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Agricultural Extension
Results of Half Hectare Trials
The following crop prices, as offered by Agricultural Marktting
Corporation (AMC) to farmers, were used to calculate the economic benefits:
Teff     - 44 Birr
Wheat    - 36 Birr
Barley   - 31 Birr
Maize    - 24 Birr
Sorghum - 29 Birr
The following fertilizer prices were used in economic
interpretation of results from demonstrations and trials.
fAP      - 82 Birr
Urea     - 67 Birr
TSP      - 84 Birr
Bonemeal - 40 Birr



-101-                           ANNEX V
Table2
Page 2
E1OPIA
SPAL ax 
Hararge - Wheat - Average of Ten IMproved Seed Trials on Aluvial Soils
Vleof
Yield    Yeld       yield                    Nt                  Value
Treamts kg/h   qt/ha   increase   increase   Fertilizer   return    etumn of   cost
N   Pp05                 qt/ha       birr      wet birr      birr     profit     ratio
0     0         16.24      -           -          -            -        -
18    46        22.33      6.09      219.24      82.00       137.24     1.67       2.67
46    46         26.28    10.04      361.44      122.2D      239.24     1.96       2.96
64    46        21.90      5.66      2D3.76      149.00       54.76     0.36       1.36
Harareq: Teff - Average of Four DiqRxrnd Seed Tials on Pia  Soils
Value o
Yield    Yield      yield                    Nat                 Value
Tra       qtlha   icreasne   irasbLae thrtiFer   return   1eurna of   cost
N   P205                 qt/ba       blrr     cost birr      birr     profit     ratio
0     0          7.96      -           _          _           _         _
18    46        11.11      3.15      138.60      82.00       56.60      0.69       1.69
46    46         11.98     4.02      176.88      122. D       54.68     0.44       1.44
42    60         13.25     5.29      232.76      134.07       98.69     0.74       1.74



- 102 -                                 ANNEX V
Table 2
Page 3
arge: Teff - Ave  of Six 1mprovd Seed Trals on Black Soils
Value of
Yield    Yield      yield                    Net                 Value
I t           kg/h    qt/ba   increae    increase iertilizer   return   Retum of   cost
N   P205                 qt/ha       birr      wst birr      birr     profit     ratio
0     0          9.28      -           -          -           _ -                  -
18    46         13.16    3.88       170.72      82.00       87.77      1.07       2.08
46    46         13.80    4.52       198.88      122.2O       76.68     0.62       1.62
60    60         12.54    3.26       143.44      159.46     -16.02    -0.1          -
Harage: Maize - Average of Sixteen I!Iroved Seed Trials on all Types of Soils
Value Of
Yield    Yield      yield                    Net                 Value
Treatnemts kg/ba   qt/ba   increase   Increase   FEstilier   return   aaurn of   cost
N   P205                 qt/ba       birr      cost birr     birr     profit    ratio
0     0         28.24       -          -          -           -         -          -
55    46         30.48    11.24      269.76      132.00      137.76     1.84       2.04
46    46         40.40    12.16      291.84      122.20      169.64     1.39       2.39
64    46        41.14    12.90       309.60      149.00      160.60     1.08       2.08
Hararge: Sorghmn - A&verge of imne Inuroyd Seed Trials on all TZyes of Soils
Value of
Yield    Yield      yield                    Net                 Value
Treatments k82    qt/hb   increase   increase   FertiULier   return   Return of  oot
N   P205                 qt/ba       birr      cost birr     birr     profit     ratio
0     0         12.80      -           -          -           -         -          -
18    46         15.34     2.54       91*44      82.00        9.44      0.12       1.12
46    46         21.00     8ao       295.ao      122.20      173.00     1.41       2.41
64    46         18.81     6.01      216.36      149.00       67.36     0.45       1.45



-103                  ~~~~~ANNE  V
- 103 -                      Table 3
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Hararghe Agricultural Extension
Equipment and Furniture for Different Offices
Zonal Office    Awraja Office    Woreda Office    DAs Office
Equipment and
Furniture                    No.   Costs      No.  Costs         No.  Costs      No.  Costs
Overhoad Projector            1    1,500                           1   1,500
Slide Projector               1    1,400                          1   1,500
Typewriter                     1      800      1      800          1     800
Calculator                     1      100       1     100          1     100
Black Board                    1       50      1       50         2      100
Book Rack                     4       480      4      480         2      240
Filing Cabinet                4    1,000       4   1,000          2      500
Meeting Chair                                                    20   2,000
Meeting Table                                                      1     150
Megaphone                                                          2     300
Flip Chart Frame                                                  2      300
Sprayer                                                                            1     200
Weighing Scale                                                                    1      600
Threshing Canvas                                                                   1     150
Hoe, Rake, Hammer, etc.                                                                  200
Metal Tape                                                                         1     100
Soil Conservation
Equipment                                                                             150
Miscellaneous                                                                            100
Others                                570             570                510             500
Total                               6,000           3,000              8,00o0n         2,000



-104 -                         ANNEX V
Table 4
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Hararghe Agricultural Extenslon
Existing and Proposed Professional Staff
Zonal Level
I                           ~   ~I  _ _ _    _   _   _    _   _  
Existing                   I         Proposed                  I
I                            I  .I
I Head CPADD                                  No change
I Team Leader Extension and Farm              Program and Extension
Management                       I          Coordinator
III
Agronomist Coordinator                   SMS (Agronomy)
I    Farm Management Specialist       j       SMS (Agronomy)
.1                                    |       SMS (Animal Science)
I |    SMS (Soil and Water Con-
I                                     I            servation - Biological'
O Team Leader Crop Production and             SMS (Plant Protection)
Protection                       I       SMS (Trrigation Agronomy)
I Team Leader Home Economis                   No change
j Team Leader Coffee Production       I       No change
Team Leader Cooperative Development I       No change
I Team Leader Marketing & Credit              No chatLge
I Team Leader Horticulture            I       SMS (Horticulture)
T                                     I                                   I
ITeam Leader Cooperative Auditing    I       No change
-                                     I  _  ___               __



- 105 -                                      ANNEX V
Taibl1e S
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL CONMTR PROGRAM
Hararghe Agrtcultural Extension
Existing and Proposed Professional Staff
Awraja Level                                              Woreda Level
Existing                       Proposed                 Existing                    Proposed
Head                     Mo change                 Read                         Mo change
Team Leader                      Extension Coordinator    Team Leader                   Extension roor4tnator
Agroomist (12 + 4)8/             SMS (Agronomy)             Agrononist (12 + 2)         No chang* (for ADD
5MS (Irrig. Agronomy)                                            trials)
Plant Protection (12 + 4)        Sis (Plant Protection)   Vetertnarv Snecialist
(12 + 2)                  Yo change
Animal Sctentist (12 + 4)        SMS (Animal Science)      Cooperative Organtzer
(12 + I)c/                Mo change
Soil & Water Conservation        SMS (Soil and Water       Soil & Water Conserva-       No chanfe  (for tech-
Specialist (12 + 4) for             fonservation)           tion  nsncialtst             anical soil
mechanical soil                For biological soil          (12 + 2)                     conservation)
conservation                       conservation
Farm Management and              SMS (Agronowy)            Home Economtst (12+1)        No change
Extension
Specialist (12 + 2)* /
Vetertnary
Specialist (12 + 2)            Mo change
Forestry Specialist (12 + 2)    No change
Cooperative Organiser (12 + 4   No change
noaw Economtst (12 + 2)          M;o change.
a/  12 years high school plus four years degree course.
sI  12 yeanr  high school plus two years diploma.
c/  12 years high school plus one year course.



106 -                      AhN     VI (a)
Pagel -
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Agricultural Credit for Small-Scale Irrigation
I. Financial Institutions
1.        The banking system, nationalized in 1975, consists of four major
institutions, supervised by the the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE):
-    The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE)
-    The Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank of Ethiopia (AIDB)
-    The Housing and Savings Bank of Ethiopia (HSB)
-    The Ethiopian Insurance Corporation (EIC)
Each operates independently, but all are supervised by the same Board,
chaired by the Minister of Finance.
2.        AIDB is the major source of development lending to industry and
agriculture. It does not offer services for savings mobilization, a task
presently confined to CBE, HSB, the Post Office Savings Bank and informal
savings and credit institutions, 'Idir" and "Ekub." "Idir" is a community
based institution, whose savings finance funeral and related expenses.
"Ekub" members contribute regular savings to a fund and utilize the credit
in rotation for priority investments. The private informal sector is still
an important source of rural credit, at an estimated annual volume of Er.
300 million and at interest rates reported to range betwen 60 and 200% p.a.
II. The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE)
3.        CBE, the country's major financial institution, operates through
a network of 144 branches, 26 in Addis Ababa and 118 in 15 other
administrative regions. In March 1986, the bank had 4,440 permanent
employees. Having limited equity capital (Br 65 million) and reserves (Br
39 million), CBE has been successful in raising Br 2,862 million, 64.4% of
its resources, as of June 30, 1985, through deposit mobilization. Loans
disbursed to agricultural cooperatives, generally confined to credit for
short-term marketing, have rangcd between Br 4.3 and 7.2 million annually
over three years, a small volume compared with Br 74 million lent to
cooperatives by AIDB in 1985. CBE's mandate has recently been broadened,
in accordance with a policy paper dated June 24, 1986, "to join AIDE in
meeting the rural credit demand" ... and "to handle the bulk of short-term
working capital requirements of the rural economy." Together with the
strengthening of the Agricultural Input Supply Company (AISCO) under the
PADEP project, this policy change is likely to give peasant members of
Service Cooperatives (SCs) more ready access to seasonal credit for
fertilizer and other inputs.



-107 -                        AEm   VI (a)
III. The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
4.        Established in 1960 as a 'overnment-owned share company under the
Ethiopian comercial code, AIDS became a public corporation in 1979.  The
Bank's mandate is to extend loans to agriculture, Industry and other
sectors. Its authorized and paid-up capital is Br 100 million.
Organization and Management
5.        The Board, consisting of ministries and other senior officials,
meets infrequently. Supervision and guidance to management has therefore
been delegated to the Governor of NBE. The Chief Executive is a General
Manager (GM), appointed by Government on the recommendation of the Board,
with full powers to run the Bank on a day-to-day basis. He is assisted by
management and loan committees.
6.        Head Office.  AIDB is organized in five departments, agriculture,
industry, finance and banking and control, and four services, legal, public
relations, engineering, research and planning (see Organigram). Unit
managers as well as branch managers report directly to the GM. There is no
position for a Deputy GM. The Agriculture Department consists of one
Division for State Farms and one for Cooperatives which caters to the
peasant sector. The Cooperatives Division would appraise and finance some
of the small-scale irrigation schemes envisaged under this project.
7.        Branches.  The Bank's branch network of 9 branches and 11 sub-
branches is not well structured for ready access of potential credit
clients. There is a tendency of concentrating staff in the few existing
branch offices. Consequently, AIDB has no staff in large areas and there
are enormous distances between potential clients and branch/sub-branch.
8.        Staffing.  Professional and technical staff (169) exceeded one
third of AIDB's 422 total employees.  AIDB has been successful in
attracting professionals to positions in the agriculture and industry
departments, research and planning services and at branches. The
departments of Finance and Banking and Control, on the other hand, are
mainly staffed by diploma holders rather than university graduates.
9.        Staff Training.  The Ethiopian Institute of Banking and Insurance
(EIBI) offers courses in finance, banking, accounting, administration and
management, development lending and appraisal techniques. AIDB seconds
permanent and occasional guest lectures to EIBI and pays tuition and fees
for staff enrolling in EIBI classes. The IFAD Technical Assistance Grant
and Agricultural Credit Project supports AIDB's training activities,
through travel grants and overseas fellowships. IFAD has also provided
expert services, primarily to strengthen an AIDB 'in-house training
program." More frequent seminars and short courses for branch managers,
loan officers and middle managers would further strengthen this program.
Funds provided for urgently needed training of cooperative bookkeepers and
committee members, MOA accountants and auditors, have been fully utilized,



- 108 -
Lending Operations, Policies and Procedures
10.       Development Loans for Agriculture.  Since 1983, AIDB has received
7 loans or grants totaling Br 208 million, with funds earmarked for 14
investment categories. Timely and effective utllization of these resources
Is unlikely unless the Bank develops more dynamic programs for publicity
about credit facilities, Identification, preparation and appraisal, in
cooperation with MOVAIDD.
11.       Lending Policies.  AIDB appraisal must document that investments
are technically feasible, financially viable and economically beneficial.
Repayment periods, determined by projected cash flow generated from
investments, may not exceed 15 years. Service Cooperktives are not
eligible to borrow unless they are registered, comply with bookkeeping
standards and have repaid 95 of debt service obligations. This
requirement has been relaxed from time to time, especially for fertilizer
loans. In case of 'force majeure," repayment may be rescheduled.
12.       Procedures.  AIDB has developed appropriate appraisal criteria
and procedures, upgraded staff competence by training in appraisal
techniques, delegated loan approval authority and improved staff mobility.
Modifications of appraisal techniques became necessary when the oxen loans
were introduced.  They require assessment of indlvidual farmer Investments,
in contrast to most other loans which are appralsed at Service or Producer
Cooperative level.  The EtIBI training program covers appraisal methodology
for Irrigation investments.  Many loan officers have taken the respective
courses.  AIDB has the capability to appraise small irrigation schemes
proposed under this project.  Short term working capital loans for
cooperatives in coffee growing regions are generally appraised as
complementary credit for investment loans or as marketing loans.
Fertilizer loans are handled by AISCO/MOA staff and subsequently
transferred to AIDB or CBE loan accounts. They do not require appraisal.
Accounting and Reporting
13.       Computerized accounting is centralized at head office.  Accounts
comply with Ethiopia's commercial code, are up-to-date and generally
satisfactory. Accounts and codes are not yet designed to generate data on
arrears by type of loan and other essential management criteria. Branch
office accounting does not facilitatt effective loan follow-up; feedback
from head office to branches is slow and inadequate for reconciling loan
accounts and does not provide branch managers with up-to-date information.
Studies in progress aim at integrating branch and head office accounting
and Improving quality and feedback of management information to facilitate
loan follow-up and collection at branch level. Strengthening of monitoring
and evaluation under the Agricultural Credit project has improved
management information and reporting.
Sources of Funds
14.       Financial resources, Br 1,358 million as of June 30, 1985,
consisted of domestic borrowings (41%), foreign borrowings (4%), net equity
(5%), deposits (4Z), short-term borrowings and secounts payable (46%)..



- 109 -
AXNEX VI(a
Page 4
Despite increasing availability of foreign loans, the share of foreign
borrowings had not yet increased markedly partly because the pace of
utilizatiou and disbursement of these funds has not yet sufficiently
accelerated, and partly becasue AIDB is slow in submitting withdrawal
applications.
Application of Resources
15.       The pace of loan approvals, especially for agriculture, has
accelerated since 1981, although this trend is not yet fully reflected in
disbursements. Agriculture accounted for 97% of loan approvals and 86Z of
disbursements in FY85.
Portfolio
16.       State Farms, accounting for 95.6% of loans outstanding to
agriculture (excluding "old loans"), dominated the agricultural loan
portfolio. Loans to agricultural cooperatives representing the peasant
sector and fertilizer loans (AMC and AIMS) accounted for the meager balance
of 4.4%.
17.       Arrears.  As of June 30, 1985, State Farms accounted for 92X of
amounts due over 12 months and for 94% of loans affected by these arrears.
The quality of the portfolio has thus been undermined by excessive exposure
to State Farms and other parastatals, to which AIDB disburses on Government
instruction, irrespective of its own appraisal. Given the unsatisfactory
arrear situation, Government agreed (during the 1982 negotiations of the
IDA/IDF Industrial Development Credit) to bear the risk for State Farm
loans. The respective adjustments have resulted in a slight improvement of
AIDB's portfolio.
18,       Reassessment of Portfolio.  Government is currently reviewing
arrears stemming from "old" and "new" fertilizer loans. Arrears from "old"
loans, older than 7 years (Br 9.4 million) should be rescheduled or written
off, where borrowers can no longer be traced. Arrears from "new" loans (Br
3i.8 million on principal and 10.5 million on interest) extended from
1977/78 to 1984/85, are to be rescheduled over 3 to 5 years. Some of these
arrears are the result of drought. Government efforts to collect on these
arrears are to be commended. However, a much broader review and adjustment
of AIDB's overall portfolio is now required.
Financial Performance
19.       AIDB's annual income from interest and other sources has been
sufficient since 1976 to cover financial and administrative costs before
taxes. However, as provisions for bad and doubtful debts have not been
recognized as an expense before taxes, net profit after taxes has been
negative from 1977 to 1984. This trend has been reversed in FY85 when the
bank realized a Br 1.5 million net profit after taxes. Future
profitability will primarily depend on the rates which it must pay on
domestic borrowings and on foreign loans on-lent through NBE and on the
spread it will realize on subloans.



- 110 -                        ANNE  VI(a
Page 5
Loans/Grants for Agricultural Development Channeled Through AIDB
Source                     ADF   IFAD   ADF   IFAD   OPEC   IDA   EEC  Total
Amount in
Br Million                 17.8  22.8   49.2  13.0   10.0   72.5  23.2 208.5
Investment
Components
Tractors, trailers,
plows, harrows              X                           X
Stationary threshers,
maize shellers               X
Water pumps, pipes a/       X
sprayers, tools             x
Grain mills, oil mills             X                    X
Draft oxen
Dairy development                  X      X             X
Irrigation, fisheries,
beekeeping b/ c/                   X                    X
Veterinary services                       X
Marketing facilities                      X
Farm inputs, tools                              X                    X
Stores                                                  X            X
Coffee washing stations                                        X
Access roads                                                   X
a! Amount for pumps and pipes not specified.
i  IFAD Credit of Br 22.8 million base cost includes approximately Br 3.2
million for a miscellaneous category of which 1/2 to 2/3 is assumed
to have been earmarked f,r pumps and minor irrigation.
ci Amount for small scale irrigation under OPEC project not specified.



ANM  V~~I (a
Pale
AlgIt Ataro2ed Lnd Diabursed loans to Iesistered Service CoopOTatiV68
LoAn*s#  "m v A                    Loags Disburaka
WCTK%Ag rApItgl          ~wo:liting Capital
1gz    InSsou:ent   and,  etillser z /         Stnesnt   lnd Fgrtilisew  ±/
1977/78     2.2              24.8                1.3              21.9
1978/79     1.8              28.3                1.4              26.1
1979/80     1.1              51.4                 .6              44.8
10/s81       .8              52.1                 .5              48.7
1981/82     1.2              55.0                                 49.5
198/83      I.8              54.7                 .9             47.4
1983/84     2.8              59.5                1.3             52.4
1984/85    12.4              76.9               4.7              73.7
ai Notes  Fertilizer distrtbution has been handled by MOAq AMC and more
recently AISCO staff.  Lsts of borrowrs with the respective
detail have then been handed over to AIDS, for transfer to AIDB
loan accounts.
Source: AIDS



- 112 -
ANNEX VI(b)
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Checklist for details to be Included in
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with AIbB
Borrower:                  Ministry of Finance
Sub-borrower:              Agcicultural and Industrial Development Bank
(ALDB)
Cooperative Institution:  Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), especially the
Irrigation Development Department (IDD)
Amount of Loan:            ro be determined later.
AIDB would not make any withdrawal from this loan
until at least US$1.0 million equivalent,
earmarked for lrrigatlon under the miscellanecis
category of IFAD Loan No. 131-ET, has been fully
committed.
Purpose:                   To support peasant-initiated small-scale
irrigation rehabilitation and development.
Procedures:                Operationally, the IDD would take the lead
responding to peasant groups' requests,
concentrating initially on rehabilitation and
expansion of small schemes where peasants already
practice irrigation. Gradually the emphasis
would shift towards development of new schemes.
Three categories of small schemes are foreseen
depending on the area to be irriaged.
- micro (up to 5 ha)
- mid size (6 to 30 ha)
- larger (31 to 200 ha)
Inter-Agency              IDD would constitute Promotion/Assessment Teams
Collaboratlon:            which would consist of:



-13 -
ANNEX VI(b)
Page 2
- one agricultural technician from ADD
specialized in crop production and on-farm
water management;
- one irrigation technician from IDD capable of
designing simple irrigation structures and
preparing cost estimates, assisted by an
irrigation engineer if, and when, necessary;
- one agricultural economist from AIDB capable
of preparing estimated investment costs, farm
plans with physical production parameters,
cost and returns, cash flow projections to
determine if individual farmer and group
benefits would adequately cover loan repayment
and income requirements.
When necessary, a cooperative development agent
would assist in mobilizing self-help,
establishing informal water users' associations
and help Service Cooperatives comply with
registration criteria.
This Team would plan and discuss the requirements
of the scheme with the beneficiaries; ascertain
which materials, equipment and services would be
contributed by the beneficiaries, by Government
(IDD), and which would have to be financed
through AIDB credit.
Appraisal:                 Eased on documents prepared by the Team, AIDB
loan officers would appraise the scheme. AIDB
would sign the loan agreement with the SC or PC.
Expenditures Eligible      Materials, skilled labor (unskilled labor only if
for Credit Financing:      necessary to ensure timely completion) for
small-scale irrigation schemes.
Alternatively, these investments could also be
financed if carried out by local contractors.



- 114 -
ANNEX VI(b)
Page 3
Beneficiaries:             Peasant groups, as members of Peasant
Associations or Producer Cooperatives, through
their Registered Service Cooperatives.
Coverage:                  Selected Awrajas, initially in the Arsi/Bale
regions, thereafter expanding into the Hararghe
and Sidamo Zones.
Interest Rates:            To be agreed with IFAD.
FRR:                       Not less than 15%.
Repayment Terms:           Based on estimated cash flow projections,
demonstrating farmers' loan service capability,
but generally not exceeding 12 years, including
grace period of no more than two years.
Semiannual installments are recommended because
beneficiaries will realize at least two harvests,
primarily from vegetables.
Borrower Contribution:    Up to 402 of value of subproject, but in no case
less than 20%.
Insurance:                 Material items procured under the loan,
especially pumpsets, stores and equipment, must
be insured with BIC.



- 115A-    VI
Page 4     ;
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Draft Cooperation Agreement between MOA/IDD and AIDB
A. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would, primarily through IDD, ADD and
the Zonal Mat&aqer:
(1) Take the lead in promoting, identifying, preparing and
implementing peasant initiated irrigation development;
(2) Organize Woreda meetings, scheme inventory assessment and ranking;
(3) Prepare technical design and cost estimates;
(4) In cooperation with CPADD help unregistered SCs to comply with MOA
criteria for registration;
(5) Assist beneficiary groups in technical, organizational and
managerial aspects as needed for scheme preparation, construction
and operation;
(6) Assign qualified SMS to help develop water management and cropping
practices, farming systems and marketing arrangements;
(7) Laisure collaboration with AIDB to encourage credit financing and
implement this agreement initially with the assistance of
consultants (ART) employed under the IFAD TA Grant.
B. At the National Level, the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) would, following the designation of areas for AIDB financing:
(1) Establish an Irrigation Development Unit or Service within the
Agricultural Department;
(2) Prepare rules and regulations for irrigation loans and establish
procedures for lending;
(3) Participate with MOA/IDD in agency coordination and review
meetings for small-scale irrigation;
(4) Organize staff training on such topics as foimation of, and
guidance for beneficiary groups, responsibilities of SCs as credit
intermediaries and scheme appraisal.



- 116 -
ANNEX VI(b)
Page 5
C. At Zonal Level, AIDB would:
(1)  Second a mobile bank team consisting of an agricultural economist
and loan officers as, and when, needed to participate in Zone,
Awraja and Woreda meetings, scheme Inventory assessment, ranking
and development planning;
(2) Explain credit policy, conditions and procedures to potential
beneficiary groups;
(3) Help SCs in assuming responsibility as credit intermediarles,
primarily for billing beneficiaries, collecting user fees and
repayment of irrigation loans to AIDB;
(4) Visit beneficiary groups, their PAs, PCs and SCs, as members of
Promotion/Assessment Teams and participate in scheme
identification and preparation;
(5) Appraise the schemes, based on cost estimates prepared by IDD
technicians or engineers and in accordance with AIDB appraisal
criteria and prepare a beneficiary/AIDB credit agreement which
would form one of the subsidiary documents to the overall
contractual agreement between the beneficiaries and the parties
providing support for scheme development (IDD, AIDB, private,
etc.);
(6) Upon loan approval, obtain signatures for loan agreement and
facilitate loan release;
(7) Assume possibilities for follow-up, loan administration and
collection;
(8) Explore possibilities of assisting peasant groups willing to
proceed on their own or with local artisans/contractors and minor
engineering input from IDD; and
(9) Encourage local artisans/contractors through loans for equipment
purchase, and working capital, to develop a capacity for
irrigation development.



-117 -                  ANNEX VII
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAN
IFAD Special Program for Sub-Saharan African Countries
Affected b Drought and Desertification
1.        The Special Program ts a new financing facility of IFAD which has
the specific objective of assisting African countries suffering from
drought and desertification. Low-income, food-deficit countries in
Sub-Saharan Africa experiencing abnormal food shortages will receive
support on a priority basis.  Rehabilitation, recovery and capacity
utilization, with a particular emphasis on restoring and strengthening the
production capability of smallholders and building up the institutional
capacity to support this development, are the main orientation of the
Special Program.
2.        The stimulus for creating the Special Program was the increasing
awareness of the worsening trends in food production and agricultural
performance in Africa-particularly alarming in a number of Sub-Saharan
countries. While it has been known for over a decade that the performance
of African agriculture has been below the level required to ensure food
self-sufficiency, the Sahel drought of the early 1970s further exacerbated
the situation and left in its wake a more enduring, widespread and chronic
situation of declining levels of per caput food production, rising food
imports, increasing incidence of food emergencies, deteriorating
nutritional status and a weakened agricultural export performance. The
recent drought of 1983/84 has further exacerbated the situation. The
magnitude of the problem is strikingly apparent when it is realized that
some 80 million people or 20% of the region's population live in countries
in which total food production has either declined or remained stagnant in
the decade ending in 1984, a dilemma greatly compounded when population
growth is also taken into account.
3.        In response to this dilemm, action is proposed in a number of
priority areas:
-    concentration on production of staple food crops which are mainly
grown and consumed by the poorer sections of the population who
are the primary target of this Program;
-    assisting the small producers to recover their production base
through improving their access to the necessasry inputs (hand
tools, draught oxen, simple implements, improved
seeds/fertilizers and agro-chemicals), and through quick-yielding
programs aimed at rehabilitation, recovery and fuller capacity
utilization;



- 118-                   ANNEX VII
Page2
Helping to restructure the agricultural production base through
adaptive research and field trials, strengthening the extension
service and improving marketing systems and related
infrastructures;
-    augmenting the communities' food security through construction or
rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation, water management and
control measures, and development of related improved technology;
-    initiating measures for environmental protection, such as
agro-forestry, shelter belts, soil conservation and fertility
build-ups; and
-    assisting governments in their efforts towards policy and
institutional reform in support of the above approach.
4.        In line with these objectives, the support from the Special
Program is directd to the following five areas:
(a) Rehabilitation, Recovery and Capacity Utilization, including
Initiatives aimed at improving the supply of primary production
inputs for smallholders, pastoralists and fishermen (e.g., basic
tools and implements, improved seeds, fertilizers, other
materials and spare parts); improving on-farm storage;
strengthening cooperatives and village-level farmers'
associations; expanding village-level processing; and generally
improving thte capacity of institutions and infrastructure
supporting the smallholder sector,
(b) Development of Rural Staple Food Crops and Related Research and
Extension Activities focussing particularly on traditional crops
and the related farming systems to better ensure that technical
advice and material support provided truly meet the needs of the
peasant family.
(c) Small-Scale Water Control Schemes with the major emphasis being
on water management, farmer-initiated and operated irrigation and
a low cost, flexible approach.
(d) Agro-Forestry and Environmental Rehabilitation with the major
orientation towards village woodlots, soil and water conservation
and pasture/crop residue management: in other words,
conservation based agricultural development.
(e) Institutional Support and Policy Reorientation play a key role in
successful implementation of the other four,



- 119 -          ANNEX VIII
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
List of Documents in Program File
1. Small-Scale Irrigation Preparation Report, IFAD, AHT,
July 1985, 2 Volumes.
2, Ethiopia, The Special Programme for Sub-Saharan Africa,
IFAD Formulation Mission, April 1986, 2 Volumes.
3. Food-for-Work in Ethiopia, Institute of Development
Research, Addis Ababa University, 1985.
4. Non-Conventional Feed Resources for Livestock in Soil
and Water Conservation Programme, FAO and CFSCDD of MOA,
Addis Ababa, October 1984.
5. Pasture and Seed Production in Soil and Water
Conservation, FAO and SWCD of MOA, Addis Ababa,
January 1985.
6. Construction of Store and Stone-Faced Earth Bunds, FAO
and SWCD of MOA, Addis Ababa, May 1984.
7. Design and Construction of Hillside Drains, FAO and SWCD
of MOA, Addis Ababa, June 1984.
8. Design and Construction of Soil Retention Bunds, FAO and
SWCD of MOA, Addis Ababa, April 1985.
9. Multipurpose Plant Species for Soil and Water
Conservation, FAO and CFSCDD, Addis Ababa, October 1985.
10. A Note on the Pricing of Tractor Services in Ethiopia,
Planning and Programming Department of MOA, Addis Ababa,
March 1986.
11. Ethiopia, PADEP Hararghe Region, Formulation Mission
Draft Report, FAO/IFAD Cooperative Programme, Rome,
February 1984.



- 120 -           ANNEX VIII
Page 2
12. General Agricultural Survey, Preliminarv Report 1983/84,
MOA, Addis Ababa, October 1984.
13. Results of Fertilizer Trials from 1/2 Ka Fields,
1982-83, MOA, Addis Ababa, June 1984.
14. Agricultural Sample Survey 1984/85, Office of the
National Committee for Central Planning, Addis Ababa,
July 1985.
15. ARDU Seed Multiplication, An Evaluation of SIDA's
Emergency Provision in 1985, H.G. Linden and A.
Wellving, January 1986.
16. Pages on National Field Trials Program (8 papers on
experiences and new proposals), MOA, Addis Ababa,
1985/86.
17. Soil and Water Conservation in Sub-Saharan Africa, Free
University Amsterdam, April 1986.
18. Small-Scale Water Control Schemes in Sub-Saharan Africa,
FAO, Rome, January 1986.
19. Retrospects and Prospects of Agricultural Research and
Extension, Alemaya Univer8ity of Agriculture,
Alemaya-Harrar, March 1986.
20. Irrigation in Bale Region of Ethiopia, Anderson, SIDA,
Addis Ababa, May 1985.
21. Proposal for SIDA Support to Rural Development in Arsi
and Bale 1986/87-1988/89, SIDA, December 1985.
22. Consultants Report to SIDA on Irrigation in Ethiopia,
Anderson, SIDA, May 1985.
23. Irrigation Technical Assistance to the South-Eastern
Agricultural Zone of Ethiopia Agricultural Zone of
Ethiopia, Anderson, SIDA, December 1985.



*?PICK Or TM    latl 
I ISCO 
IUtAWNINC & PLOCRAiiNC DLII           - -             -----------|UDIT SE-VICE I
II'OJECT FOiULATION DEPARTNENTI ---------                                                                       | IiMSPECTIOu  SERVICtt
ITRANlIC bIPAtlTi   ------ --                              .                                    ---------------- IFimeg  DEPARTENTI
lOt&GAMIZATIN           M TNCENENt.&VI------                                                    --------_------ IA-- INIS?RATION RafT
I 1EUM. & PUSLIC RELATIONS SELVICE-----                                                         ----------------PR         t DEPTI
|LECAL SLEVYICES -------------------- --
|PUItAL INVrASTRUCTIE5 I      ANIKAL   FISUIRtES fSouACS I           I1owFaMTIOi 4 AChICULI                S ATURAL ESRCES CtWSEV 
IbEVtLOPfNET tuAIN tWPTS      IDEVELOPMEaT VAIN DEPATHENT  I             I    Engvt wTot' main ZAnta      IDEV IOPtHENT HARm DEIW AitirFNTI
tlCUiNiCALI    INACHINERY   I  |VEt      I     IARNHAL WSa VSI  ItAAT  ASsOCI   IPLANT             I  ISTATES FORESTI       ICOWO  FOUESTSI
ISEZVICESi I__& 1 FLD        I  sEvIcsI  _I nu DFED                 I& DCV        I    IPROtECTION|I ICOWSERVATIlO  I       IA_ N  SOILS   I
OIEPT     I    I"DTE41AL WPI  IDEPTI- |        IDsP&R K I*T        IPaROMTION    I    IDEPARThTNTI |I    DEVELOP#ErHT      |ICSECAATIONI
1 -DIST DEPT I I                                                                      INEPAPTH T   I           V DE"T    I 
tIUVitciI       l| NAcL     I SA IVAL   I      IS   ROTIOUaL   I    IAR"CKURUALI       ICOFfEL   |   IFORESER I             lSILVI-  I             eF
|DEV   I       |TLCHNOLOCY I |"ESOU^CESI_   |VCTtU"L^tI            Ismuslow   I _  _|vgVLOP#E*T|  |FLAMPINC Al              ICULTUBALI           
IDEFT  I       |DEVYLOPHENTI  |H^AK£TINC|      IlINSTItUT  I       |D2t^RTHET  I   -|D£F^TWErW1 |  |@CLGMToYIfl            -ItLSEAA8CHI      
I DtFAltH^N&T I  IDEIPT  I       _       ..IDEPT                                                  IICENTRE  IJ
I"UkAL I        |TNACtOR 4   I IFISHERIESI    IFISe PROD4C I         IN"^SttNCl          |ACRtCMU IUAL   tFb"ESUY I         IYV                     o
ICONST I        I"hCHINE iENTI I"ESOURCESI __1I NABTIINU C  I        1 CUIt   _  _  IDEVEOPIlEt| I  STRAINING I             IUTILIZATIONI
IaeTr  I        ISe*V ACANCY I IDEV DEPrT I    ICORPONATION  I        oar?     I         INPATNENT  I  IINSTITUTEI          IRESEACNE   I
ICENTRE II
licENCTI      I& HA*EETICtI        |(ICONSEEATION|
ICE        ~~IENTERPRI,SE I-IY I ZTUI
_____IWO                  I
ISAIAILLS I        IC"N"COAL   I
SAN.      I    _IPRNCTIU  I
IJOINERItSI        Is HAIXETINC|
I  ~  OVflclS ~  IENTERPtSE I  .
I                                   t~~~~~~~~~~ONAL WIFICeS Or CAapc"I                                                                .



in1trZ_j c.uICtt(uf     ZOAAt Office
PtIursCm  t PROGRAMtING SfRV.                                                               AUDII Slavic(
f!--;A&INISFRATION £ FINANCE                                                                 LEGL t   SEAVla(      ]
SathtuG  t ti#tAUoN                                                                  REGIONAL HEADS
| NIRAL t l"S3ttRy                 COOPCRATIVES P3OmtOtIOh a                                        RURAt INFRASTRUCTURE    |               SIcat. ZESOucES to£sUs-
BtSOUaCtS D;tELCOP"ti                AG| UICULTUtAL DtVtILOP |EN|   OEVELOPNI.Ek  DEPA#ITENt                                                   vatouN t OfvttopmEmIT
V1tIA)NART  s¢ V IcI SvrINSON A                 _ I       COOP. ]UDI                                   IRRIGATION  DEV.                      L h hE   900(116W
LIVESTOCK  nA"It1tiSG    r    AR0K11uC 9                      COOP.         j                                    A ROaO CO$410uC110N   I    |   COOa. _fO
O(VtILOPNt                  (atoll                       PROMOTION      JAI E                                                                 SOft (O 0t,*VATION
AtOI~AL  Awbeta           USSA,L~O                          COllIE         1                          SiJILiNG WORKS                           t&"* u$E 1EAm
a 91ttb                           fAN        .tVELOPn                j                           £ SttREtI  TtS
__.t 1 5ttt tt t                                                                         _URURAL
01 VELOP'( edt                                                                                    T TECHNOLOGY CENtER
AWRAJA1
ACI CUt1UkA  OfFttE|ICE



I X                                   j                                 .    l                   .  .t
--     - -             .          - .     -- ---              --          ----..           1 .        I 0..1
8X       .~--------- --------------- -----------
--------------------------------



ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Implementation Schedule
1987/88   1988/89 _J1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
A.  Small-Scale Irrigation                                     I
National Support                       _________I
Zonal Support Arsi/Bale
Scheme Investments Arsi/Bale
Zonal Support Hararghe
Scheme Investments Hararghe                           I
B.  Conservation and Agri. Support
National Support
Conservation Agronomic Trials
Extension
Bund Estabilization
Women Development Support
C.   Special Operations Facility
Studies I/
I/ Start before Progra1  1mple tai o n
I/ Start before Program Implementation 



-125-                        ANNEX X
ETHIOPIA
SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
Implementation Volume
Table of Contents
A.  Small-Scale Irrigation Development
1.  Small-Scale Irrtgation
2. IDD Response Mechanism and Resource Requirement
3. Agricultural Credit for Small-Scale Irrigation
4. Agricultural Support Services for Small-Scale Irrigation
Development.
5. Supplemental Support Activities for Small-Scale Irrigation
Development
B. Conservation and Agricultural Support
6. Soil Conservation - Background
7. National Conservation S,upport Unit
8. Bund Stabilization
9. Road Network in Eastern Zone
10. Adaptive Trials and Demonstration Program -.Conservation
Based Agronomic Trials
It. Agricultural Extension in Hararghe
12. Rural Women's Development Support
C. Production, Monitoring and Evaluation and Economic Evaluation
13. .Farm Models and Crop Production
14. Monitoring and Evaluation System
15. Basic Assumptions for Economic Analvsis
16.  Taxes," outies and Fees
17.  Procedure for Preparation of Annual Budget and
System of Fund Releases



-4
16t 
iKHAfOU -A 
E ~Q  /<
j 7A
/Ni'                    >  m N:
I,   -- I~I
A 3
o'-k--eS*6!     'A
_         _._- ,. 
.t    /!           .~~~~~~-  o6*-
UGANDA (                  t            KE



- .......... DIBM 20028
(,<(  'J        -  -  e                                         ,.       -           -               ...................... A
ETHIOPIA
(JVW 5  t;IFAD SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
.< t ;Program Area
U    MOA Zone Offices
AIPB Offices:                                        'V
Nf  i 0  > <      *                       *0      Head Office
,*-IIsi.@                   t                            ,vA Branch Offices
- 4~~                             ~                                   Representative Offices
Agro-Ecological Zones of the Central
Highlands (Above 1500 Meters):
High Potential
Low Potential
-'-  lsohyets in Millimeters
JJ   1-   >4-~ e  \  >           -      All-Weather Roads
.-     >.,Dry-Weather Roads
-s   z    t .       -~        /  i               - Rivers
<   .--,Presently Irrigated Areas
*  -ze f . _._         International Boundaries   A1
.  0 D iBOUTI .?
0 (50 -MILf
ol       io      )_;o~~m a.a.    mat
-   M         A    L   I  A       A /-  IAUD
baht".iAS.", 41
/                                                     O~~~~~~~~~~EcYn  SAUDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fOW*WYO
SUDAN
a.;.R.,,                    . \ ,,f  , _  >  \   \ETHIOPIA 7,"
M t  ./    4, 77 %    S O                         M A l I A
E      Nt   Y   o    A               /                                                      Z, 's   b A+d   i, TA§tNYAjq T
SEPIEMBER 1986



