Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16744
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1765-ET)
June 23, 1997
Agriculture and Environment Operations
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal US$ 1.0 = Birr 2.07
Birr I = US$ 0.48
At Completion US$ 1.0 = Birr 6.40
Birr I = US$ 0.16
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Ethiopia
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Agricultural Development Bureau
ADD          Agricultural Development Department
AED          Agricultural Extension Department
AHFDD        Animal Husbandry and Feed Development Department
AIDB         Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CCC          Central Coordination Committee
CFSCDD       Community Forestry and Soil Conservation Development Department
DA           Development Agent
DBE          Development Bank of Ethiopia
GOSE         Government of Socialist Ethiopia
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IDD          Irrigation Development Department
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
OPECF        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
PC           Producer Cooperative
PCMED        Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
PPD          Planning and Program Department
TA           Technical Assistance
TGE          Transitional Government of Ethiopia
T&V          Training and Visit Extension System
WMERDB    Water, Mining and Energy Resources Development Bureau
WUA          Water Users'Association
Vice President          C. Madavo
Country Director       0. Meesook
Technical Manager      J. Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader       A. Elahi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                                                              - -
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
Table of Contents
Preface.i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................I
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ......................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE  PROJECT  .................................................................4
General .................................................................4
Mid-Term  Review .................................................................4
Small-Scale Irrigation .................................................................5
Soil Conservation and Agricultural Support .....................................................6
Rural Women's Development .................................................................8
Institutional Capacity Building - Manpower and Equipment .............................8
Studies .................................................................9
Organization and Management .................................................................              9
Project Costs and Financing .....................................              ........................... 10
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ............................ .................................... 10
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ................................................................                               11
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ................................................................                            12
G. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ............................ .................................... 12
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ................................................................                               13
I. LESSONS LEARNED ................................................................                                  13
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES ................................................................                                     15
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ................................................................                    15
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................................                 17
Table 3:  Project Timetable ................................................................                         18
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................... 19
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................... 20
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................................. 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 7:  Studies Conducted under Grant Financing from  IFAD ................................... 22
Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................                                            23
Table 8B: Project Financing ..............................................                                        24
Table 8C: Final Disbursement by Categories (IDA) ..............................................                     25
Table 8D: Final Disbursement by Categories (IFAD) ..............................................                    26
Table 8E: Final Disbursement by Categories (OPECF) ..............................................    27
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                              28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..............................................                                29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................................... 31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                             32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                                 33
APPENDIXES
A. Aide Memoire
B. Note on Economic Analysis
C. Summary of Areas Developed Under Irrigation Schemes
D. Executive Summary: Extract from Project Completion Report (March 1997),
Ministry of Agriculture, Ethiopia
Map IBRD No. 20028R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small-Scale Irrigation and
Soil Conservation Project, for which Credit 1765-ET in the amount of SDR 5.9 million (US$ 7.0
million equivalent) was approved by the International Development Association (IDA) on March 3,
1987 and made effective on October 21, 1987. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996, three
years after the original closing date of December 31. 1993. The Credit at account closing (end of
April 1997), disbursed SDR 3.310 million (US$ 4.632 million equivalent) and the undisbursed
amount was canceled.
The Project was co-financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) with a loan of SDR 9.3 million (US$ 11.00 million equivalent) and the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund (OPECF) with a loan of US$ 4.00 million.
The ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) on
behalf of Africa Technical Agriculture Group 2 (AFTA2/CD6) of the Africa Region of the World
Bank. The ICR was reviewed and revised internally in the Bank by Akhtar Elahi, Berhane Manna and
Donna Criddle; and has incorporated appropriate modifications including those in communication
with IFAD. The report was finally reviewed by Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Technical Manager, AFTA2.
The ICR is based on information obtained from the project files and on the findings of an ICR
mission' which visited Ethiopia in April 1997. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing a
Project Completion Report2 and providing its own assessment on the project implementation and
performance. The draft ICR was sent to the borrower, and confirmation has been received that the
borrower has no further comments.
P. Kidane (ICR Mission Leader, Economist, FAO) and B. Manna (Senior Operations Officer, World Bank,
Resident Mission). K. Sengupta, Agriculturist (Consultant) who remained associated with the project supervision
during the greater part of implementation, has also contributed to the preparation of this ICR.
2 Available in Africa Region Information Service Center






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        Since the early seventies, IDA has supported agricultural development in Ethiopia by
financing the priority development programs in different sub-sectors. These included irrigation and
rainfed agriculture, coffee development, livestock production and health, agricultural research,
marketing and storage, credit, fertilizer supply, national seed system and drought rehabilitation
programs.
2.        As part of Government's program to improve food security, the main objectives of the
project were to increase food production in areas that are vulnerable to drought by emphasizing
irrigation development. The project comprised several components: (i) institutional capacity building
through technical assistance (TA) and staff training; (ii) irrigation development; (iii) provision of
agriculture support services including extension and (iv) soil conservation through biological bund
stabilization. The Small-Scale Irrigation Sub-project was the first phase of a long-term development
program and focused on strengthening irrigation and agricultural institutions and establishing
schemes capable of irrigating up to 4,400 ha.
3.        The Conservation and Agricultural Support components addressed the problems of land
degradation in the highlands of the then Hararghe Zone with a view to improving agricultural
production. The main activities included: stabilization of about 9,500 ha of bunds through biological
means, introduction of conservation-based agricultural trials, provision of extension support, as well
as support for rural women's development by introducing vegetable gardens and credit for income-
generating micro-projects. Provision was also made for staff training, technical assistance,
preparatory studies and monitoring and evaluation on project implementation. It was anticipated that
the project would be implemented under the then existing set-up of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), and that seven departments would be involved in the implementation. In addition to IDA, the
project was co-financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund (OPECF).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.        Project start-up was swift as a number of preparatory activities had already been
undertaken before project effectiveness. These included preparation of the first year program of
work, drafting of terms of reference for the technical assistance and studies, and completion of bid
documents for procuring vehicles and equipment. As implementation progressed, however,
difficulties began to emerge mainly from factors beyond the control of the project, viz., repeated



iii
changes in the administrative structure, spanning from 1988/89 and running through 1992/93 (leading
to the current regionalization), overthrow of the Dergue Government in May 1991, resulting in the
dissolution of the socialist structure of the Dergue regime and thereby abolishing the
"collectivization" based Producer Cooperatives (PCs); and the subsequent civil strife. This also
resulted in the split of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MOANR) into two
ministries in 1992 and subsequent re-amalgamation of these ministries in 1995 with adjustments in
some functions resulting from the regionalization. These developments led to frequent staff changes
and disruptions in project implementation. A noteworthy project-related factor that contributed to the
implementation delay was the ill-conceived design of the irrigation component in which farmers
were expected to borrow money needed for the construction of schemes from the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) through the PCs. Since farmers regarded the PCs as oppressive
institutions, they refrained from borrowing. As a result, little progress was made in the project
implementation during the first five years of the project. By the time a mid-term review was carried
out in November 1992, project activities and accomplishments were confined to providing technical
assistance, conducting preparatory studies, staff training, and procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Physical implementation in the field had scarcely commenced. As an example, even until December
1993 ( the original Credit closing date), irrigation schemes covering an area of merely 215 ha had
been implemented. These led to reduction of project targets, particularly for the irrigation and bund
stabilization components which were scaled down from 4,400 ha and 9,500 ha to 3,500 ha and 1,800
ha, respectively.
5.        The project implementation started to pick-up in 1993, boosted by improvement in the
economic climate which had emerged after the change in the new Government's macro-economic
policies coupled with regionalization, and the accelerated progress continued until the project closed
at the end of 1996. This corresponded to the extension period of the project by three years. By
December 31, 1996, at project completion, the most important component (irrigation) had succeeded
in constructing schemes capable of irrigating some 2,930 ha, about 67% and 84% respectively, of
appraisal and revised targets. Although this achievement may not appear outstanding compared to
what was originally planned, it is worth noting that this was accomplished in the last three years of
the project implementation. The main reasons for the upturn were the removal of the controlled
political and the collectivized socio-economic systems and the introduction by the new Government
of a market economy which provided farmers with sufficient incentives to farm for the betterment of
their livelihoods.
6.        Apart from the general improvement of the political and economic situation in the
country, the establishment of voluntary Water Users Associations (WUAs), that evolved through the
project, made a significant contribution to project achievements. When the PCs were dissolved and a
void was created in the rural credit sector, the MOA decided to construct the irrigation schemes by
direct financing, and to manage them by organizing farmers into WUAs as suggested by a World
Bank supervision mission in 1990. At the project completion, WUAs have been established in all of
the forty-five irrigation schemes, and many of them contributed labor voluntarily during scheme
construction. The WUAs are now in charge of the operation and maintenance of the schemes, with
members contributing money and labor for this purpose. Members of the WUAs have received
agricultural extension services and training on the benefits of registered cooperatives e.g.,
opportunities to borrow from banks. Many WUAs are in the process of being registered in order to
become legally recognized entities. Other factors that have expedited irrigation development include:
(a) institutional improvement of units within MOA, as well as the concerned Regional Bureaux



iv
entrusted with irrigation development, by means of technical assistance and staff training; and (b) the
decentralization of responsibility for implementation to the Regions.
7.        Important results have also been achieved in soil conservation and agricultural support in
Hararghe during the last three years of the project. The bund stabilization program succeeded in
covering about 2,600 ha - which is much higher than the revised target. The farmer community is
now convinced that the value of the improved animal nutrition obtained from the forage crops grown
on stabilized bunds more than compensates the loss of food production from the land acquired for
bund stabilization. Agricultural-based conservation trials were also conducted and some of these, e.g.
alley cropping with leguminous fodder crops, maize and sorghum, have attracted farmers' attention.
The vegetable garden development scheme was highly appreciated by women and 580 vegetable
gardens were established, exceeding the target of 370 set by the project. Moreover, there was an
increase in demand for loans under the income-generating micro-projects component, after economic
control by the socialist institutions had been terminated. Under this component, ETB 2.2 million
(US$ 372,000) were provided to 3,450 women, organized in 413 groups.
Outcome, Impact and Future Operations
8.        The project implementation was frustrated by outside factors, viz., administrative,
institutional and political changes that characterized the poor performance during the first five years.
In contrast, the implementation moved faster during the three-year extension period when many of
the constraints were removed, though still faced with operational difficulties due to a rather long
transition period towards regionalization and financial management problems in its wake which
continued to exist till project closing. However, the project eventually made outstanding
achievements which have had a lasting impact. The overall project outcome should, therefore, be
considered satisfactory. The effect of the project particularly on irrigation is remarkable, and has
provided the country with a sustainable and replicable approach to small-scale irrigation development
through the involvement of WUAs. Due to this encouraging result, IFAD has recently appraised a
second-phase small-scale irrigation development program along the lines developed by the project.
The financial and economic benefits of the irrigation schemes are very attractive. Besides, the
acceptance of responsibility for operation and maintenance (O & M) by the farmers forming
themselves into WUAs ensures the sustainability of the schemes. Soil conservation and agricultural
support components, including Women Vegetable Gardens and Income Generating Micro-projects,
albeit on a pilot scale, are also appreciated by farmers, and have contributed positively to their
incomes.
9.        After the completion of the project, the regional Governments have incorporated the
project's activities and services into their normal programs. The farmers will accordingly continue to
receive agricultural support services, including technical support for WUAs from the regional
Governments. Each WUA will continue to look after the 0 & M of its respective scheme.
Lessons learned
10.       Major lessons learned from the project are:
* At the risk of stating the obvious, the pre-conditions for success are continued social,
political and institutional stability, coupled with a suitable policy framework creating



v
an economic climate that is conducive to stakeholder participation (ultimately leading
to private sector investment) - as evidenced during the last three years of the project.
* Projects should be kept more focused in the selection of compatible sub-components
as the inclusion of a large number of components/sub-components in the project
spread over many departments and institutions seriously affected project execution.
* Concerted efforts in assisting MOA/Regions in their capacity building, both in
equipment and manpower (staff training and specially targeted TA), in the early years
of the project coupled with a conducive economic environment, resulted in
accelerated project implementation.
* Decentralization introduced through the Regionalization (but allowing for the loss of
time in the transition) resulted in better ownership of the products and accelerated
implementation.
* Limited executive capacity of relevant Government institutions such as weak
financial management, resulting in not fully utilizing the Credit/Loans on the Project.
In addition, though attributed to factors beyond the control of the project, this
endorses strongly the need for greater efforts towards capacity building at institutional
and manpower levels with increased emphasis in the Regional context of Ethiopia.
- The policy reforms and liberalization to a market economy introduced by the TGE
removed the most serious impediment to progress of the project
* Collective farming and marketing mechanisms (PCs) have shown themselves as
disincentive factors resulting in failure to attain development and growth; whereas
farmers will voluntarily form associations, such as WUAs, if they are demand driven
and provide clear benefits. The mechanism that evolved under the project should
continue to be pursued.
- Whereas the cost recovery for capital investment in irrigation schemes remains an
unresolved national policy issue all these years, the establishment of WUAs with
clear responsibility and commitment in discharging 0 & M assures sustainability of
investments.
* The participatory approach gained through the formation and establishment of WUAs
and their commitment as seen in this project should be a prerequisite to smallholder
irrigation development for assuring sustainability.
* Cropping pattern recommendations do undergo changes over time triggered by
market accessibility and demands; as in this case. They should be seen as positive
signs of market oriented production. The irrigation system, therefore, should be kept
flexible to accommodate such variations in demand.
* A limited intervention was only possible within the project in improving access roads
in the project area and helping to market produce from the irrigation schemes for
greater productivity. For sustained growth in rural agriculture, improvement in rural
and feeder roads has a direct impact, and this should be addressed with greater
emphasis in future projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.       In the 1 980s, when Ethiopia was suffering from serious famine due to drought,
development programs that helped to reduce the effects of drought and improved food security
commanded top priority. The Small-Scale Irrigation and Soil Conservation Project was formulated in
this context, and was aimed at increasing food production in drought-prone areas by developing
small-scale irrigation, preventing land degradation through a combination of structural and biological
soil conservation practices, and providing agricultural support services in some highland areas. These
objectives were appropriate for addressing the problems related to drought and to the consequent
decline in agriculture, and responded to the national call for increased food production.
2.       In evaluating project implementation and performance, the project can be conveniently
sub-divided into four distinctive group of activities: (a) institutional capacity building, including
technical assistance (TA), staff training, and supply of equipment and vehicles; (b) small-scale
irrigation; (c) agriculture support services including extension services; and (d) soil conservation and
bund stabilization components. While irrigation was to cover primarily three zones, viz. Arsi, Bale
and Hararghe (and part of Sidamo), the other activities were confined to the then Hararghe Zone. The
Small-Scale Irrigation Sub-Project was intended to strengthen the Irrigation Development
Department (IDD) at headquarters; to strengthen the Rural Infrastructure Development Department
and Co-operative Promotion and Agricultural Development Department at their zonal offices in
Asela and Harar; and to finance the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes through promoting
credit by the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and direct financing by IDD.
The Conservation and Agricultural Support Sub-project consisted both of strengthening the
Community Forestry and Soil Conservation Development Department (CFSCDD), and of providing
zonal support in Hararghe for conservation-based agronomic trials, for bund stabilization and for the
extension service by introducing a modified training and visit (T&V) system, and for rural women's
economic development. The project had reasonable funds for manpower and capacity building in the
form of technical assistance (TA), equipment, and staff training, to strengthen implementing
institutions involved in the project. Monitoring and evaluation were also supported by the project.
3.        Project organization and management depended on the administrative and organizational
structures that existed in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) during project formulation. At the start
of the project, the Irrigation Development Department (IDD) was responsible for the irrigation
component; the Community Forest & Soil Conservation Development Department (CFSCDD) was
responsible for the conservation activities, the Cooperatives & Agriculture Development Department



2
was responsible for agriculture support components. However in the over extended maze of
coordination requirements spanning over many departments ( as explained later in the report and
resulting equally from a large number of project components), IDD took the lead, assisted by both the
Agriculture Development Department (ADD) and Agriculture Extension Department (AED) and
ended up implementing the related components in cooperation with their zonal offices. A Central Co-
ordination Committee (CCC), chaired by the Vice Minister for Rural Infrastructure Development
Main Department, would ensure policy level coordination. The designated members were: the head
of AIDB, the MOA zonal managers for Arsi/Bale and Hararghe, and MOA departmental heads and
the Planning and Programming Department (PPD). While the AIDB was to provide credit to farmers
for irrigation development through Producer Co-operatives (PCs), the extension, conservation-based
agronomic trials and bund stabilization components were to be implemented by the respective
departments. The Technical Support Unit of PPD was expected to provide a secretariat to the CCC
and a Co-ordinator for the project, while Zonal Committees were to coordinate implementation in the
field. The tasks of project monitoring and evaluation were initially assigned to PPD. This department
was transferred in 1989 to the newly established Project Co-ordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department (PCMED) of the MOA. With the subsequent administrative restructuring (1992) leading
to regionalization, the CCC ceased to be relevant and stopped functioning. While the implementation
transferred to the Regions according to the decentralized administration, the responsibilities for Co-
ordination, Procurement and financial control rested with the central MOA.
4.        Although most implementing departments (with the exception of AIDB) were part of
MOA, their sheer numbers meant that their coordination would be an important element and a
challenge too as was borne out through the process of implementation. In short, some seven
departments were involved in project execution. The CCC was basically responsible for policy
coordination, and a strong coordinator was needed to undertake day-to-day coordination. The MOA
initially did not appoint an effective coordinator to the project in its early years and the Technical
Support Unit and its head were too junior to be able to exercise authority over the major departments.
This situation partly explains why IDD in close association with ADD & AED subsequently took de
facto responsibility for coordinating their respective sub-projects (para. 24), up until the
regionalization when project implementation was transferred to the respective Regional Bureaux.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.       In general, the project has attained its objectives, but the level of achievement varies
among components. Significant results were achieved in irrigation development, with reference both
to constructing the infrastructure and to institutional strengthening. The economic rate of return
calculated for the irrigation component is about 25%, and compares favorably with the appraisal
estimate of 19%. The main reason for the higher return is the relatively reduced investment costs
incurred compared to appraisal estimates, and the inclusion of additional benefits derived during the
rainy season through supplemental irrigation, which were not accounted for at appraisal. About 45
irrigation schemes have been rehabilitated or constructed with the irrigation net-work laid over a total
irrigated area of 2,927 ha (Appendix C), as against an appraisal target of 4,400 ha, or a revised target
of 3,500 ha. Although, the establishment of this area may not appear to be a major accomplishment if
viewed in the context of the nine-year implementation period, it becomes significant considering that



3
some 2,700 ha (against a total of 2,927) were achieved during the last three years of the project. This
means that the project could have developed a much larger area if the political and economic
conditions of the last three years had prevailed earlier. This accomplishment also demonstrates the
effectiveness of the technical assistance (TA) and training provided under the project (para. 22).
6.        The creation of voluntary Water Users' Associations (WUAs) in each irrigation scheme
is the most important achievement of the project. Although the WUAs were not foreseen at
appraisal, their establishment has greatly enhanced sustainable utilization of the irrigation schemes.
Presently, all the WUAs have taken responsibility for the operation and maintenance of their
respective schemes. Members of the WUAs are contributing the money and labor necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes, thereby relieving government agencies of these
tasks. In the next development stage of the WUAs, many of them are now taking steps to form
themselves into irrigation cooperatives in order to acquire legal status (para. 15).
7.        Physical achievements have been relatively modest in the soil conservation and
agricultural support program (paras. 17 and 18). Bund stabilization, using grass and fodder legumes,
was carried out over an area of 2,600 ha, much lower than the appraisal estimate of 9,500 ha, but
higher than the revised figures of 1,800 ha set after the mid-term review. This progress, which was
also mainly achieved during the last three years of the project, has successfully demonstrated to
farmers the benefit of bund stabilization by growing useful grass and legume forages on the bunds.
The project also introduced some conservation-based agronomic trials, the most successful being
alley cropping of maize and sorghum with leguminous fodder crops. These trials have given
important results. The yields have been significantly higher than those of traditionally cultivated
farms; quality fodder has been produced and soil erosion has been reduced. Success in implementing
the modified T&V extension system has been intermittent and less than desired primarily because of
(a) frequent changes in the administrative set-up, (b) the resulting high staff turn-over, and (c)
prolonged security that prevailed in the targeted area. The system was, however, discontinued
because the Government decided to follow a different extension method based on the model of
Sasakawa Global 2000 (para. 19).
8.        The rural women's development component exceeded targets. About 580 vegetable
gardens were established as against an appraisal target of 370. Some 3,450 women, organized into
413 groups, received credit under the income-generating micro-projects component.
9.        The irrigation schemes are cropped twice a year. During the rainy season, producers
benefit from supplementary irrigation, thus overcoming the effects of drought or of erratic rain on
their traditional food crops. During the dry season, farmers are engaged in the production of high-
value horticultural crops, totally under irrigation, and their income has therefore increased
substantially. Net annual income per family from the average 0.25 ha holding amounts to about ETB
3,500 or US$ 540, which is several times higher than the incomes obtained under rainfed farming.
Some progressive farmers are producing three crops per year, increasing their incomes even more.
The economic rate of return calculated for the irrigation component is about 25% and compares
favorably with the appraisal estimate of 19%.



4
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
General
10.       Before the project started, a number of preparatory activities were carried out: a work
program for the first year was completed; terms of reference for the TA personnel and for the studies
were drafted; and bid documents for procuring vehicles and equipment were prepared. Therefore,
project implementation began with a degree of optimism. As time passed, however, difficulties began
to emerge, particularly with regard to irrigation, because farmers did not want to accept AIDB credit
with the intermediation of the PCs (para. 12). Subsequently, project implementation became
entangled in a series of administrative, institutional and political changes, which slowed its progress.
The main changes that affected project execution were: administrative reorganization during
1988/89 which changed the four-tier administrative system (zone, region, awraja and woreda) to a
two-tier system based on 25 regions and 354 awrajas; the proclamation of a mixed economy and the
dissolution of the PCs in 1990; the overthrow of the Dergue Government in May 1991 and the civil
strife immediately before and after this event; the decentralization and changes in the administrative
structure in 1992 into a three-tier system (14 regions, 54 zones and 655 woredas); the re-organization
of the MOANR into two Ministries in 1992 (i.e. the MOA and the Ministry of Natural Resource
Development and Environmental Protection (MNRDEP); and the subsequent re-amalgamation of
these ministries into the MOA in 1995. These changes entailed frequent staff movement and
disruptions in project implementation. At the same time, with the regionalization in 1992,
responsibility for implementation of the project components shifted to the concerned regions,
resulting eventually in improving the pace of implementation after an initial period of additional
disrupted activities.
Mid-Term Review
11.       A mid-term review, which had to be postponed twice due to the country situation
described above, was finally carried out in November 1992. It concluded that project implementation
progress was limited essentially to staff training, technical assistance and procurement of equipment
and vehicles. Little physical progress was made in organizing and developing irrigation and soil
conservation activities. Therefore, with the exception of the agriculture extension and women's
development components, all project targets were revised downwards. In particular, the appraisal
target in irrigation development was reduced from 4,400 ha to 3,500 ha, and bund stabilization from
9,500 ha to 1,800 ha. Most of the physical works were achieved during the last three years of the
project period, facilitated by the improvement in the economic and political climate of the country
since 1992.



5
Small-Scale Irrigation
12.       Construction of schemes. The first difficulty encountered in irrigation development was
the unwillingness of farmers to accept credit which involved the PCs. In mid-1990, design of 33
irrigation schemes was completed by IDD and 10 of these were presented to AIDB, but farmers'
requests and willingness to accept such credit was not forthcoming and AIDB failed to promote and
lend even a single credit for irrigation schemes' construction. The matters did not improve even after
the PCs were dissolved in 1990, as this created an institutional vacuum in rural credit. Irrigation
development on the ground only began to progress after it was decided to finance construction of
schemes directly by IDD and by the Regional Bureaux as successors, and to organize farmers into
WUAs. Irrigation development benefited from the prior planning and design studies previously
undertaken by the project for a number of technically feasible schemes. The idea of establishing
WUAs had been proposed by an IDA supervision mission in 1990, and was implemented after the
mid-term review. It gathered momentum only in 1993 when vigorous formation of WUAs took place,
together with scheme construction, due to encouragement by the authorities and farmers' positive
response. The WUAs were involved from the inception in developing irrigation schemes, sometimes
contributing voluntary labor, and at the same time receiving training in operating and maintaining
irrigation schemes. It must be emphasised that the direct financing by IDD and the formation of the
WUAs were the main reasons for the accelerated progress. The transfer of implementation
responsibility to the Regions in 1992/93 also contributed to more expeditious execution of the
irrigation schemes, from a negligible area of 215 ha at the end of 1993 to some 2,930 ha at the project
closing date of December 1996. In addition, the project had been strengthening the institutional
capacity of IDD, its zonal offices and irrigation staff in the new Regions through strong TA and staff
training ( para. 22), which had begun to give results.
13.       Agricultural Development. A full-fledged Irrigation Agronomy Division was created
within ADD to cater to irrigated farming. An irrigation agronomist was provided under the project's
TA component, and he was instrumental in designing trials and demonstration plots in the irrigated
areas. Since 1993, this responsibility has been transferred to the Agricultural Development Bureaux
(ADBs) of the Regions who are continuing to provide the support services. Crops produced under
irrigation are mainly horticultural crops and the project has succeeded in expanding the mix of these
crops. Previously, irrigated crops were dominated by onions and potatoes, but the project has
expanded the production base by introducing other crops such as chilly, cabbage, tomato, lettuce,
banana (Cavendish variety) and papaya (Solo variety). The banana variety was newly introduced to
the project areas from other parts of the country, and the papaya variety was totally new to the
country. The extension service was instrumental in this success by undertaking demonstrations on
farmers' fields, and by distributing seeds after the necessary varietal, fertilizer and irrigation trials.
14.      In most cases, the schemes were put under cultivation soon after construction. In other
instances, however, production seasons were missed in completed irrigation areas because of
seasonal factors needing adequate time to prepare land for cultivation. Reasons included: late
handing over of schemes by the Water, Mining and Energy Resources Development Bureaux
(WMERDB) to the ADBs in the field; delayed orientation of farmers in utilizing and managing
irrigation water; or a combination of these even though WUAs were formed in all the schemes.



6
Another factor was poor coordination between the WMERDB and ADB which took some time to
develop a mechanism to handle the schemes following regionalization. It should, however, be
emphasized that it is normal with any irrigation development that areas provided with irrigation
systems take a minimum of 2-3 subsequent seasons ( this time frame is still longer for large scale
parameters) to reach full cropping and render returns based on adapted agricultural practices.
Accordingly, corresponding to 215 ha and 1970 ha developed with irrigation system up to December
1993 and December 1996 respectively, the areas cropped in the dry seasons of 1994, 1995 and 1996
were 236 ha, 458 ha and 818 ha respectively. Additional areas were also cropped under multiple
cropping seasons taking advantage of the availability of supplemental irrigation with additional
returns from the schemes. The cropping patterns, though prepared in advance by ADB based on
agronomic aspects, underwent some adjustments which became obvious due to market
considerations. The farmers responding to the free market economy, gradually switched to high value
crops as transportation and marketing facilities improved. In the area cropped in the dry season of
1996, the proportion of major crops were high value vegetable, 56 %, perennial, 24 %, fruit crops, 7
%, and only 13 % was under cereal crops. Farmers on completed and operational irrigation schemes
have acquired better agronomic practices as a result of the trials, demonstrations and training as
shown by well laid-out crops on ridges, irrigation application on recommended schedules and proper
crop husbandry.
15.       Utilization of the schemes. The irrigation schemes are now being operated and
maintained by WUAs. Irrigation channels are cleaned on a set timetable, and the structures are
guarded by members against damage by animals. The WUAs are also responsible for establishing
and operating irrigation water schedules, and are empowered to penalize non-conforming members.
Farmers are appreciative of the WUAs, and have strong feelings of belonging to their respective
associations. A total of 45 WUAs have been formed so far under the project, and there is now a drive
to register the WUAs as co-operatives so that they can acquire legal status and benefit from it, such
as by having access to credit. To this end, farmers have started to contribute money and to fulfil the
requirements for registration. One WUA (at Sayed Ali Irrigation Scheme) is already registered as a
co-operative body, five (Shaled, Arata Chuffa, Bosha Spring, Babil Ali and Arata 01) are in the
process of being registered, and others are preparing to satisfy the requirements for registration. The
establishment of the WUAs has conclusively resolved the issue of recovering costs for operating and
maintaining the schemes, since the beneficiaries become responsible for these activities. In future, the
registered WUAs may become the vehicle for delivering agricultural inputs and for marketing
members' produce.
Soil Conservation and Agricultural Support
16.       National Conservation Support Unit. It was expected that this Unit would be
established within CFSCDD as a focal point for conservation activities, including soil conservation
using biological methods. However, the CFSCDD has failed to establish the Unit and continued
business as usual through its existing divisions.



7
17.       Bund Stabilization. This program  aimed at stabilizing the bunds constructed on
croplands, using mainly fodder grasses and legumes. It was agreed at appraisal that AHFDD should
be responsible for this component; however, CFSCDD decided to implement it since AHFDD did
not establish or operate any nurseries. Before 1989, five nurseries for grass and fodder seed
production were established in Hararghe, including substantial effort towards bund stabilization, on
land forcibly appropriated from farmers without their consent. This raised farmers' resentment, and
after the overthrow of the Dergue Government and the civil strife that followed, farmers destroyed
the nurseries and many of the stabilized bunds, and they reclaimed their land. During the mid-term
review (1992), only one nursery (at Chelenko) was still found in place, and the bund stabilization
work had to be practically re-started which led to reducing the appraisal target. The development
approach also became dialogue-based and participatory. Accordingly, between early 1993 and the
end of 1996, the project succeeded in covering an area of 2,600 ha. Success was due to the changed
approach, as the  farmers were convinced of the benefits of bund stabilization towards soil
conservation and fodder production.
18.       Conservation-Based Agronomic Trials. Since conservation practices in Ethiopia were
limited essentially to physical treatment of lands by terracing, bunding and gully plugging, the
project proposed to introduce conservation through biological means. Six trial sites were identified in
Hararghe soon after project effectiveness. However, initial uncertainty as to the division of
responsibility between ADD and CFSCDD delayed progress. After this issue was resolved in favour
of ADD, only three trial sites were established. Several trial methods were envisaged: viz., alley
cropping, strip cropping, inter-cropping, contour ploughing, minimum tillage and cover crops. After
the mid-tern review, however, the ADB of the Oromiya Region concentrated on alley-cropping
maize and sorghum with Sesbania and Leucaena. These trials were found to be promising. Analysis
carried out in East Hararghe during 1993-1996 showed that yields of maize (2.73 tlha) and sorghum
(2.3 t/ha) under alley cropping were much higher than those obtained under traditional farming
methods.(1.6 t/ha and 1.5 t/ha respectively). In addition, farmers were able to harvest high-quality
fodder crops and reduce erosion.
19.       Agricultural Extension System. A T&V extension system was introduced over 20
woredas of Hararghe soon after the project became effective. This component aimed at improving
the ratio of Development Agent (DA) to farm families from 1:2,500 to 1:1,300. Borrower indicates
that the ratio was surpassed and claims that at project completion a ratio of 1:930 was achieved with
the posting of a large number of DAs who were reported to have completed their training in late
1996. The ratio has shown wide variations due to the staff movements/exodus caused by the country
situation and repeated administrative changes over the project life. It has not been possible to
establish the veracity of the ratio claimed to have been achieved by the Borrower as this is reported to
have come about in the last month or so of project closing. Under this component, the project
financed vehicles and audio-visual equipment, and for strengthening the extension staff in agronomy
and in biological soil conservation. While the extension system was making headway towards
achieving its objectives, successive administrative changes and civil strife in 1991/92 disrupted its
progress due to frequent staff transfers and loss of equipment and vehicles. From 1993 onwards the
program was reorganized to cover 16 woredas in East and West Hararghe, and 2 in Diredawa. The
T&V system was largely in place at project completion. However, it is now being discontinued as the
Government has decided to follow the Sasakawa-Global 2000 model. Under this extension model,



8
thousands of half-hectare demonstrations plots are being established on farmers fields for major
crops.
Rural Women's Development
20.       After 1990, following a slow start, the vegetable gardens development program gained
momentum, and succeeded in establishing about 580 vegetable gardens (each of approximately 200
sq.m), which is 57% higher than the appraisal target. The project provided on a grant basis, a set of
packages of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and basic tools with instructions for each vegetable garden
and promoted extension advice. The produce from the vegetable gardens contributed to better
nutrition and improved family income. Many women are now re-investing in expanding their
vegetable gardens or in livestock production.
21.       Action on promoting credit by AIDB - now renamed the Development Bank of Ethiopia
(DBE) - for income generating micro-projects did not make much progress until 1991/92. By then,
only ETB 106,000 were disbursed to 427 women for purchase of goats and cows. The progress of the
component was slow mainly due to civil strife and prolonged unsettled conditions in this part of the
project area. Loan distribution remained totally suspended and many Service Co-operatives were
rendered inoperative even after normalcy returned. However, the situation improved after the change
of economic policy with the advent of the new Government, and with the DBE's change in lending
procedures. These changes included the provision of loans to voluntarily formed women's groups,
introduction of group liability for loan security, insurance coverage for livestock purchased on
credit; and waiving the requirement for Borrowers' husbands to co-sign loans. After introducing
these changes in 1995, the program took off remarkably. At completion, medium-term loans of
about ETB 2.2 million were disbursed to 3,450 women organized into 413 groups. About 75% of the
credit was given to purchase dairy cows, and the remainder for sheep and goat production. The
repayment period of the loans is 5 years. It is reported that 60 out of 110 women of W. Hararghe
who received loans in 1991/92 have repaid their loans.
Institutional Capacity Building - Manpower And Equipment
22.       Technical Assistance (TA) support and staff training were provided in all the major
project activities. Overall, about 237 person-months of technical assistance or 57% of appraisal
estimates were used. The TA (Consultants' input) primarily supported irrigation development and
the remainder was sub-divided between agricultural support services, agriculture extension and
monitoring and evaluation. About 100 staff were provided with long and short-term overseas
training. Some 40% of the training was provided for irrigation development. In addition, a large
number of staff were given on-the-job and in-service training. The TA and training inputs have made
a positive impact on MOA institutional development, particularly regarding irrigation. Apart from
actual support in planning, designing, constructing and supervising irrigation schemes, the TA
personnel have prepared about 55 manuals and guidelines on topics related to irrigation development
and water management, irrigation agronomy and agriculture extension. To strengthen institutional



9
capacity towards implementation and operation, vehicles and construction equipment were procured
under the project in tranches. It was noticed that some of the manpower development and training
delivered by the project dispersed to areas outside the project on account of mass transfer of civil
servants resulting from the regionalization. However, the prime objective towards national capacity
building was served.
Studies
23.       Five studies were carried out during the first year of the project and were funded in
parallel by IFAD's Special Operation Facility (SOF) grant program. These were traditional
conservation practices, preparation of conservation-based farming-systems trials program, traditional
methods for organizing small-scale irrigation, fruit and vegetable marketing, and irrigation-water
charges. These studies were carried out in the context of the centrally controlled economy and
generally in the framework of PC system then prevailing. Subject to this limitation, which prevailed
until economic liberalization, the studies helped the MOA and the successor institutions to plan and
implement the components related to irrigation, agriculture, soil conservation and marketing.
Organization and Management
24.       The organization and management set-up proposed at appraisal was disrupted by the
successive administrative and institutional changes and staff transfers. This situation was further
aggravated by lack of plans for staff deployment, and by imprecision of some proposals made at
appraisal. Firstly, it was unrealistic to expect that a small section within the PPD could co-ordinate
the activities of the major departments, and consequently there was neither a real co-ordination unit
nor a co-ordinator until this responsibility was assigned to the PCMED in mid 1989. Secondly,
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) could not be carried out by PPD as it had an insufficient mandate
from within the MOA on how to carry out these tasks and on procedures that need to be followed. In
the first two years of the project, progress reports were not prepared regularly. This situation
improved later when this responsibility was given to PCMED. IDD, defacto, provided overall co-
ordination, although CFSCDD had its own co-ordinator for the soil conservation component. This
introduced a split in the line of command, particularly after the CCC became inoperative in its
function and was no longer in place due to changes in the administrative set-up. If these issues had
been resolved at appraisal, the disputes that emerged between departments, and the delays that
followed, could have been avoided. The financial management, like many other aspects of the project
remained severely under stress and was adversely affected by the administrative and staff changes.
One particular area of weakness developed following the regionalization when the financial control
continued to rest with the MOA at the center, as a policy decision by the Government for ongoing
projects, and the implementation was handed over to the concerned Regions. This situation created
additional bottlenecks and unresolved problems on the flow of project funds and difficulty in
properly charging back the expenditures made by the Regional Bureaux to the project funds. On
matters of accounting and auditing, the assistance provided under the project to the Finance Division
(MOA) by the appointment of a private firm of Accountants for the last three years in a row, proved
useful in helping to clear the backlog and in making the project accounts and audit reports current.



10
Otherwise, it may be said that the MOA and its departments have coped remarkably well, given the
many administrative and institutional changes and high staff turn-over that took place during the
project implementation period.
Project Costs and Financing
25.       At Appraisal the project cost was estimated as ETB 69.86 million, equivalent to
US$33.75 million (Table 8A). At completion, total project costs amounted to ETB 58.86 million or
US$ 13.862 million reflecting the devaluation of the ETB and giving an average currency equivalent
of US$1 to ETB 4.23. Through the period of the project implementation, ETB in terms of the US
dollar underwent devaluation from ETB 2.07 at Appraisal to ETB 6.40 at completion. Total external
financing for the project was US $22.00 million equivalent and comprised IDA (US$7.00 million
equivalent), IFAD (US$11.00 million equivalent) and OPECF (US$4.00 million). Against this
external financing, the total disbursed amount at completion was equivalent to US$11.9 million,
giving an overall disbursement of 54.1 %. Disbursement by expense categories against each of
Credit/Loans is shown by Tables 8 C, 8 D and 8 E. Actual project costs were lower than appraisal
estimates, because, as implemented, the project was scaled down from what was envisaged at
appraisal due to (a) policy constraints and civil strife as explained above, (b) funds provided for the
operating costs could not be utilized in any substantial manner as physical development in the first
six years of the project was negligible, and (c) subsequently following the regionalization, the
operating expenses were made from the Regions recurrent budget which could not be quantified but
can be taken as additional contribution by the Borrower. Total disbursement by IDA, IFAD and
OPEC amounted to US$ 4.63 million, 5.57 million and 1.70 million, respectively, or 66 %, 43 % and
42 % of the original plans.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.       Irrigation, which is the most important component, has been developed in such a way
that the schemes can be utilized in a sustainable manner, thanks to the effective beneficiary
participation through the WUAs. The associations will continue to benefit from Technical Support
that will be offered by the Regions. Farmers are getting considerable benefits from irrigated farming,
and the operation and maintenance of the schemes is taken care of by the WUAs. In addition, the
future of these schemes is expected to be better, because the WUAs intend to become registered co-
operatives and to take advantage of the opportunities offered to legal entities. For instance, they hope
to be able to procure credit for their members and to be involved in providing agricultural inputs and
in marketing members' produce. Due to the encouraging results attained in irrigation development,
IFAD is continuing its involvement with the project by approving a loan for a country-wide second
phase, which is designed to replicate the successful experiences based on the completed project. The
project had no negative environmental impact. A possible localized negative effect could arise if on-
farm water management on the irrigation schemes would not be properly handled. WUAs are being
provided technical advice and training to follow adequate water management practices. Although
there are no indications that give cause for concern, it should be mentioned that environmental risks
from continuous irrigation should be monitored in order to assess the impact on soil fertility, water



I1
logging, salinity and public health, and to follow sound operational and management plans.
27.       Although tried essentially on a pilot scale, the other components also appear to be
sustainable ventures. After the removal of the coercive policies, bund-stabilization and alley-
cropping methods introduced by the project are enthusiastically accepted by farmers, and the regional
agricultural services are continuing to support them. Likewise, beneficiaries participating in rural
women's development component continue to produce profitably both vegetables and livestock. For
future sustainability of such activities timely distribution of quality seeds of forage and vegetables is
necessary and the private sector should be encouraged to gradually come into this area. It is not
apparent whether the Government will continue to multiply and distribute these seeds, or whether the
private sector (including farmers), will be encouraged to do so.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.       The Bank's involvement in the project started essentially during appraisal, as the project
was prepared by the Govemment of Socialist Ethiopia (GOSE) and IFAD. As to the Bank's
performance at appraisal (1986), it can be said in retrospect that while it was appropriate to design
the project to focus on irrigation and soil conversation, the relatively large number of sub-
components, led to the involvement of too many implementing departments which in turn required a
strong day-to-day co-ordination mechanism. The inclusion of a large number of sub-components
some even on an experimental/trial basis, and the need therefore for an intensive form of co-
ordination has in part seriously affected project execution. The idea of PCs participating in the
administration of credit to farmers was ill conceived and the project design and implementation
following this scenario proved to be invalid as the PCs were rejected by farmers. At the same time
GOSE insisted, following political party lines, to give this role to the PCs in the project
implementation. As such in the early years of the project implementation phase the system was given
a try and it became clear that farmers were not willing to work in this "forced collective farming and
marketing" system. However no change could be made until after the change of regime and
following liberalization of the economy.
29.       Thirteen IDA supervision missions, of which six with the participation of  IFAD
representatives, have visited Ethiopia during the project-implementation period. The supervision
missions were generally attentive and thoughtful. They understood the country's situation, and while
waiting for things to become normal, were actively engaged in dialogue with GOSE to suggest
remedial activities to assist the project. The supervision missions should be credited for believing in
the validity of the project, and for not being discouraged by changing events. Although the project
had not much to show in terms of physical implementation after the initial five years, the supervision
missions strongly advocated an extension, initially for two years, and then for another year. This is
because they were convinced that farmers would begin to participate actively, consequent to the
removal of the coercing institutions. The supervision missions had already encouraged the formation
of WUAs after the dissolution of the PCs. These extensions enabled the project to achieve a
significant part of its original objectives, particularly regarding sustainable smallholder irrigation
development and its impact.



12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.       The project was started during the period of the socialist Government and did not
progress in any major component due to the controlled economic policies of the then Government,
except for manpower training and equipment supply. The project implementation was further
adversely affected by violent changes in Government with a drawn out, unsettled and transitional
period leading to the decentralization/regionalization program. Considering the volatile political and
social situation that characterized the first 5-6 years of project implementation, and the remarkable
achievements recorded in the last three years. the Borrower's performance should be regarded as
satisfactory. GOSE's agreement to continue with TA inputs and with staff training overseas, even
when the project was not making significant progress, was a sign of commitment to the project.
These inputs have been instrumental in capacity building of the MOA departments and Regional
Bureaux. GOSE's insistence in adhering to the then party lines and forcing the role of development
through the PC system greatly retarded project implementation. In retrospect, TGE's acceptance of
the mission's suggestion to establish WUAs was a wise decision. TGE has also generally complied
with the legal covenants although the presentation of consolidated and audited accounts have
sometimes been delayed by the civil strife and other administrative restructuring but the accounts
finally became current. The delay to establish the co-ordination office and the appointment of a co-
ordinator, as well as failure to correct the implementation mechanism outside the PC system (once
the unwillingness of farmers to operate through the PCs had become apparent) should be considered
GOSE's major shortcomings. TGE's removal of constraints on the free market economy and
following through with economic liberalization leading to regionalization (1991/92) set the right
environment for project implementation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.       The project suffered from many disruptions due to administrative, institutional and
political changes. As a result, it was not implemented along the lines planned at appraisal.
Nevertheless, the overall outcome appears satisfactory, and remarkable strides have been made
during the last three years of the project. This has enabled the project to contribute significantly to the
economic development by demonstrating examples of sustainable development by means of
irrigation and soil conservation, by organizing women to produce vegetables and to obtain credit for
income-generating   enterprises. The project's strong capacity-building efforts in irrigation
development have laid the foundation for much larger undertakings in the future. The setting-up of
WUAs has also provided the country with a development approach that is sustainable and that can be
repeated elsewhere. The project has introduced several new development concepts, i.e. bund
stabilization by biological means, and conservation-based agricultural trials. Furthermore, the project
has introduced several horticultural crops into the irrigated areas, thereby increasing the farmers'
agricultural base. Driven by the free market economy, farmers are adjusting crop selection and
production in response to demands with technical advice from the concerned Regional Agriculture
Bureau on agronomic aspects and growing more vegetables and fruits in the irrigated areas which
offer greater profitability than cereal crops. Latest assessments have indicated that the irrigation
schemes should yield attractive returns to the farmers and to the national economy (Table 9).
Environmentally, the project has made an important contribution to the stabilization of bunds on



13
croplands, albeit on a pilot scale.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.       After project completion, the  regional Governments have continued to support the
irrigation schemes and the soil conservation work by incorporating them into their regular programs.
Farmers within the irrigation schemes are provided with extension services and assisted with
strengthening their WUAs. This is expected to continue in the future. However, the actual operation
and maintenance of the irrigation schemes is being carried out by the WUAs. With the participatory
approach evolved and put in place by the project on smallholder irrigation and its encouraging
development impact, IFAD has recently appraised and negotiated a nation-wide second phase
Smallholder Irrigation and Soil Conservation Program along the lines developed by the project.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
33.       Major lessons learned from the project are:
* At the risk of stating the obvious, the pre-conditions for success are continued social,
political and institutional stability, coupled with a suitable policy framework creating
an economic climate that is conducive to stakeholder participation (ultimately leading
to private sector investment) - as evidenced during the last three years of the project.
* Projects should be kept more focused in the selection of compatible sub-components
as the inclusion of a large number of components/sub-components in the project
spread over many departments and institutions seriously affected project execution.
* Concerted efforts in assisting MOA/Regions in their capacity building, both in
equipment and manpower (staff training and specially targeted TA), in the early years
of the project coupled with a conducive economic environment, resulted in
accelerated project implementation.
* Decentralization introduced through the Regionalization (but allowing for the loss of
time in the transition) resulted in better ownership of the products and accelerated
implementation.
* Limited executive capacity of relevant government institutions such as weak financial
management, resulting in not fully utilizing the CreditlLoans on the Project. In
addition, though attributed to factors beyond the control of the project, this endorses
strongly the need for greater efforts towards capacity building at institutional and
manpower levels with increased emphasis in the Regional context of Ethiopia.
* The policy reforms and liberalization to a market economy introduced by the TGE
removed the most serious impediment to progress of the project
* Collective farming and marketing mechanisms (PCs) have shown themselves as
disincentive factors resulting in failure to attain development and growth; whereas
farmers will voluntarily form associations, such as WUAs, if they are demand driven
and provide clear benefits. The mechanism that evolved under the project should
continue to be pursued.



14
* Whereas the cost recovery for capital investment in irrigation schemes remains an
unresolved national policy issue all these years, the establishment of WUAs with
clear responsibility and commitment in discharging 0 & M assures sustainability of
investments.
* The participatory approach gained through the formation and establishment of WUAs
and their commitment as seen in this project should be a prerequisite to smallholder
irrigation development for assuring sustainability.
* Cropping pattem recommendations do undergo changes over time triggered by
market accessibility and demands; as in this case. They should be seen as positive
signs of market oriented production. The irrigation system, therefore, should be kept
flexible to accommodate such variations in demand.
* A limited intervention was only possible within the project in improving access roads
in the project area and helping to market produce from the irrigation schemes for
greater productivity. For sustained growth in rural agriculture, improvement in rural
and feeder roads has a direct impact, and this should be addressed with greater
emphasis in future projects.



15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of objectives            Substantil       Ptial       Ne.gligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                                       L            LI Z           E
Sector policies                       I             [             L                 Z
Financial objectives                  L             [             L                 Z
Institutional development             EE                          E              El
Physical objectives                   E               W           LI 
Poverty reduction                     EZ            L             L  0            0
Gender issues                                       LI             Z]            LIZ
Other social objectives               []            Fo            [I]            LI]
Environmental objectives              EI            E7            L]             rlZ]
Public sector management               E[                                        [I]
Private sector development            E]            L]            ED                -I]
Other (specify)                       ED            E]            LIZ             L
B.   Project su ainnaijty                  Likelv        Unlikely     Uncertain
HighIy
C.   Bank crnnanc                         satisfactoy    Satisfactow    Deficient
Identification                                      E [3           0
Preparation assistance                 [            j3                ]
Appraisal                              ED            El            El
Supervision                                          E             El



16
HWL
D. Borrower prfmae                   satisfactIoM   Seaisfg       Deficen
Preparation                          [               7           L]
Implementation                         D            W               ]
Covenant compliance                  [IJ           [] 7]
Operation (if applicable)            [I]           EJ             aII
kWIhY                                         HWLY
E. Assessmentofoutcome            satisfa       Saisfagt=      Unsatisfactorv   un
l                            K]               E ]



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                      Purpose           Year of     Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Irrigation I - Amibara                     Develop irrigation for    1973      Completed
increased food crop
production
2. Agricultural Minimumy Package              Increase crop production by  1973    Completed
supplying modem inputs
3. Drought Areas Rehabilitation               Rehabilitation            1974       Completed
4. Grain Storage and Marketing                Improve the storage of food   1978   Completed
crops and their marketing
5. Second Agricultural Minimum Package        Increase crop production by  1980   Completed
supplying modern inputs
6. Agricultural Research                      Support to Agricultural   1984       Completed
Research
7. Drought Recovery Program                   Rehabilitation            1985      Completed
FoUlowing operations
1. Fourth Livestock Development Project       Increase livestock        1987      Completed
production by improving
animal health and feed
production
2. First Peasant Agriculture Development      Increase food production in  1988    On-going
the highlands.
3. Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction program    Rehabilitation of the post    1992  On-going
socialist economy,
including agriculture.
4. National Fertilizer Sector Development     Increase crop production  1995       On-going
through fertilizer supply
5. National Seed Systems Development          Increase crop production  1995       On-going
through seed production
and supply
6. Social Rehabilitation Fund                 Rural infrastructure      1996       On-going
development including
small-scale irrigation



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned                  Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification/Preparation             1985/86                   1985/86
Appraisal mission departure           May-June 1986              May 27 - June 21, 1986
Negotiations                          November 25, 1986          November 25 to December 1, 1986
Board presentation                    March 3, 1987              March 3, 1987
Signing                               April 9, 1987              April 9, 1987
Effectiveness                         October 9, 1987            October 21, 1987
Midterm review                        October/November 1990 i   November 1992
Project completion                    December 1993              December 1996
Credit closing                        December 31, 1993          December 31, 1996
a? Prepared by IFAD.
6' Original schedule was 30 months after project effectiveness.



19
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97
Appraisal       1.00    2.20    3.20     4.50    5.50     7.00
estimate
Actual a        0.87    0.90    1.17     1.95    3.11     3.71    3.91     4.31    4.34    4.63
Actual as %    87      41      37       43      56       53      56       62      62      66
of estimate
Undisbursed
balance
Date of final
disbursement
a/ Disbursement from other co-financing institutions amounted to: IFAD US$ 5.57 million and OPEC US$ 1.70
million.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.   Key implementation indicators in SAR/   Unit          Esti.ated           Actual
President's Report
Irrigation Development
Number of WUAs                              No        not foreseen                45
Irrigated area to be developed              Ha             4,400               2,930
Number of farmers                           No            17,600              10,067
Agronomic trials                            No        not specified               13
Demonstration plots on irrigated agriculture  No      not specified              156
Agricultural Support Programme
Establishment of trial sites                No        not specified               13
Establishment of demonstration sites        No        not specified              156
Farmers contacted under T&V extension       No           300,000             374,670
DA to farmers ratio                     DA: Farmers        1:1,300            1:930
Women's Development
Establishment of vegetable gardens      No of 200 m2         370                 580
garden
Total credit provided                   USD million            0.3                 0.279
Number of women that accessed credit        No        not specified            3,450
Number of women group formed                No        not specified              413
Conservation Support Programmes
Establishment of trial sites                No                '6                   3
On-farm adaptive trials                     No                30                   0
Farmer' demonstration plots                 No               100                   0
Establishment of nurseries                  No                 3                   5
Area treated under bund stabilization       Ha             9,500               2,600
Seeds production                            Kg        not specified            1,080
Technical Assistance and Training
Total technical assistance              person/month         415                 237
Long-term overseas training             person/month         192                 585
Long-term overseas training              No of staff     not specified            38
Short-tern overseas training            person/month         242                 147
Short-term overseas training             No of staff     not specified            60
Farmers training                            No           not specified         1,900



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1.  Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report              Estimated                       Actual
NOT APPLICABLE



22
Table 7: Studies Conducted under Parallel Grant Financing from IFAD (SOF)
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined      Status             Impact of study
1. Irrigation cost     Assist in establishing water   Completed   Minimum impact because
recovery and water      charges                                   GOSE did not prefer to
charges                                                           introduce water charges
2. Traditional irrigation    Understand traditional  Completed    Useful in contemplating the
system organization     systems to take them into                 introduction of WUAs
account while planning
implementation
3. Vegetable Marketing    Assess opportunities for  Completed     Limited use. The previous
vegetable marketing                       government did not favor free
market
4. Traditional soil     Understand traditional    Completed       Useful in planning the bund
conservation measures    systems to take them into                stabilization program
account while planning
implementation
5. Conservation based   Prepare suitable agricultural   Completed  Was a major input to the
agricultural trials    trial programmes                           conservation based agronomic
trials component



23
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)    Actual/latest
estimate
(US$'000)
Local    Foreign    Total      Total
costs    costs
Item
A. Small-Scale Irrigation
National Support                   654.5    2,159.7    2,814.2     7,934.0
Zonal Support                     905.3      849.6    1,755.0      1,835.0
Agricultural Service Support      1,022.2   1,040.5    2,062.8       82.0
Schemes Construction              5,922.7   3,328.8    9,251.5     3,146.0
Sub-total                         8,504.8   7,378.6   15,883.4    12,997.0
B. Conservation and Agricultural Support
National Conservation Support Unit  225.6    985.9    1,211.5          -
Conservation Based Agronomic Trials   833.8  271.4    1,105.2        51.0
Bund Stabilization                 341.4     446.3      787.8        133.0
Extension                         1,823.5   2,497.7    4,321.2      277.0
Rural Women's Development Support   175.3    630.1      805.4        51.0
Sub-total                        3,399.6   4,831.5    8,231.1       512.0
C. Monitoring and Evaluation         523.6      590.0    1,113.6         7.0
Physical Contingencies            1,011.8    656.7    1,668.6          -
Price Contingencies               4,729.6   2,121.0    6,850.7         -
Expenditures incurred in the regions,
but not yet itemized                                                346.0
Total Project Costs                 18,169.5  15,577.9  33,747.4    13,862.0



24
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                      Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                     (US$M)
IFAD Loan                           11.0                        5.57
IFAD Loan 131 -ET                    1.0                  Not mobilized
IDA                                  7.0                        4.63
OPEC                                 4.0                        1.70
WFP                                  1.0                 Not mobilized
Government                           6.4                        2.06
Beneficiaries                        3.3                        n.a. i
Total                               33.7                       13.92
I/ Although some WUAs have contributed their labour in the construction schemes, this is
not documented systematically and cannot be estimated.



25
Table 8C: Final Disbursement by Categories'
IDA Cr. 1765-ET
Number of categories: 9
Category        Category Description       Undisb US$       Disb US$
1            works 50T                                 0.00      67,259.10
2            goods & vehicles 65F                      0.00    2,388,395.11
3            consultant 65T                            0.00     827,840.04
4            training 65T                              0.00     774,701.40
5-A          operating cost 75T                        0.00     330,497.02
5-B          operating cost 55T                        0.00           0.00
5-C          operating cost 35T                        0.00           0.00
SA           US$ SPAC with NBE                   -278,381.97     243,742.23
UNALL        unallocated                         694,718.97           0.00
Total (for all 9 categories)        416,337.00    4,632,434.90
1 Source: Integrated Controller's Systems, as of June 17, 1997.



26
Table 8D: Final Disbursement by Categories'
IFAD Loan SRS003-ET
Number of categories: 10
Category        Category Description        Undisb US$        Disb US$
1-A          civil works PT.A,D,F                   85,750.63        4,739.76
1-B          vehicles and equipment              1,859,712.13      543,104.10
2             scheme investment MO               2,484,964.05     1,337,584.51
3            consultant services and training       16,279.32    3,337,820.94
4            rural women credit                     44,385.70      278,943.45
5-A          operating cost                        514,784.87       73,097.89
5-B          operating cost                        562,054.95            0.00
5-C          operating cost                        485,726.50            0.00
SA           special A/C US$ NBE                   -59,197.36       -1,675.61
UNALL        unallocated                          1,387,790.00           0.00
Total (for all 10 categories)  7,382,250.77   5,573,615.04
1 Source: Integrated Controller's Systems, as of June 17, 1997.



27
Table 8E: Final Disbursement by Categories'
OPECF Loan 428P
Number of categories: 13
Category        Category Description       Undisb US$       Disb US$
A            small scale irrigation                   0.00            0.00
A-I          national support                         0.00            0.00
A-II         zonal support                        62,682.48     437,317.52
A-III        agricultural support service        603,430.56      96,569.44
A-IV         scheme investments                       0.00            0.00
B            conservation and agriculture             0.00            0.00
B-I          national conserve support           389,114.60      10,885.40
B-II         agricultural conserve trial              0.00            0.00
B-III        extension services                  752,959.87     947,040.13
B-IV         bund stabilization                  251,652.36      48,347.64
B-V          rural women development              -5,803.41       5,803.41
C            monitoring, evaluation              277,917.99     122,082.01
SA-A        revolving fund                       -30,474.17      30,474.17
Total (for all 13 categories)  2,301,480.28  1,698,519.72
1 Source: Integrated Controller's Systems, as of June 17, 1997.



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic rate of return (ERR) calculation was carried out for the project at completion in which all
investment costs were entered into the cost stream after being converted to December 1996 prices using
the CPI for the country. Allowance of Birr 70 has been inputed to the farm budget to cover operation
and maintenance of the irrigation schemes, including a reserve for periodic repairs. Project benefits
were estimated on the basis of three representative farns, each with an area of 0.25 ha. They are:
a)    Hararghe wet season production of maize under supplementary irrigation, instead of the
traditional rainfed sorghum;
b)    Arsi/Bale wet season production of wheat under supplementary irrigation, instead of the
traditional rainfed barley;
c)    production of vegetables (0.20 ha.) and fruits (0.05 ha.) under irrigation in the dry season, in
areas which were traditionally left fallow.
The net cropped area of all the seasonal crops is assumed to be 0.20 ha, the remaining 0.05 ha being
occupied by the fruit crops perennially. Project crops and their yield assumptions at full development
in tons per ha are 3.5 for maize, 2.5 for wheat, 18 for onion, 10 for chilli, 20 for papaya and 25 for
banana. These are in line with yields presently obtained under irrigation conditions and are assumed
to be reached after five years of consecutive cultivation. The representative farms have been phased
and aggregated in accordance with the development of the irrigation schemes and their incremental
net benefits have been entered in the project benefit streams. These benefits have been put against
the investment costs and the discounting of the resulting balance has yielded an ERR of 25%. The
main reasons for this improved result are the relatively low expenditure incurred, compared to
appraisal estimates and the inclusion of some benefits accrued in the rainy season. Farmers are now
using modern inputs and improved techniques of production during the wet season encouraged by the
availability of supplementary irrigation. These benefits were not considered at appraisal.



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Revised
Covenant Present fulfilment fulfilment         Description of
Agreement   Section      type    status    date      date                covenant                   Comments
DCA       2.02 (b)      I       COpen and maintain in dollars a special
account in the Central Bank
4.01 (a)     I        C                        The Borrower shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting
practices
4.01 (b) (i)  I        C                        The Borrower shall have the accounts
audited, including the special account
by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.
4.01 (b) (ii)  I      CD                         Furnish to the Association no later    Delays recorded during
than six months after the end of each  the civil strife.
fiscal year, a certified copy of the audit
report of accounts
Schedule 4    5        C    Aug. 31,            No later than August 31, 1987, the
(1)                      1987                Borrower shall establish a Central
Coordinating Committee responsible
for overall coordination of project
activities.
Schedule 4    5       CP                        The Borrower shall designate the  Partially complied with.
(2)                                          Head of the Technical Support Unit of
MOA to act as Project Coordinator
Schedule 4    5       CD   Aug. 31,             By August 31, 1987, the Borrower
(3)                      1987                shall take adequate measures to
strengthen the Project Studies and
Preparation Division within the
Irrigation Department of the MOA.
Schedule 4    5        C    Dec. 31,            By December 31, 1987, the Borrower
(5)                      1987                shall establish support units
responsible for planning, design,
technical support and supervision of
rehabilitation and construction of
irrigation schemes under the project.
Schedule 4    10      NC                        The Borrower shall, during each year  Superseded by events.
(7)                                          of the execution of the project and no  AIDB was no more
later than April 15 of each year,  involved in irrigation
fumish and cause AIDB to fumish to  development.
the Association for comment a draft
annual work program regarding the
project.
Schedule 4    10      NC                        By June 30 of each year of execution  Superseded by events.
(8)                                          of the project, the Borrower shall  AIDB was no more
furnish and shall cause AIDB to  involved in irrigation
furnish to the Association a copy of   development.
the final annual work program for
subsequent year.



30
Original  Revised
Covenant Present fulfilment fulfilment         Description of
Agreement   Section      type    status    date     date                covenant                   Comments
Schedule 4    10      C                         No later than 30 months after the date  Delayed caused by the
(9)                                         of effective of this Agreement, the    Country's situation and
Borrower shall prepare a mid-termn    mid-tern review was
review of such scope as the     undertaken in Nov. 1992
Association shall reasonably requesL
Schedule     10       C                        The Borrower shall organize through
(11)                                         MOA's zonal offices training
programs for zonal and awraja
technical staff of MOA participating in
the carrying out of Part G of the
project.
Covenant Types                                        Present Status
I Accounts/audit                                                          C =  Covenant complied with
2 Financial Performance/operating revenue from beneficiaries               CD = Complied with after delay
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                                    CP = Complied with partially
4 Counterpart funds                                                        NC = Not complied with
5 Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



31
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title   N         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
NOT APPLICABLE



32
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'/
Stage of                      Planned                  Revised                 Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$         Weeks   J   US$         Weeks       US$
Preparation to
appraisal
Appraisal                                        NOT AVAILABLE
Negotiations through
Board approval
Supervision                                                              82.53    244,920.0
Completion
I/ Historic data on Bank resources are not available due to Bank internal reorganization.



33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                    Number                     Specialized     Implemen-       Develop-
project cycle      Month/       of         Days in       staff skills      tation          ment         Types of
year      persons       field      represented s      status v      objectives    problems o
Preparation4          1985/86
Appraisal             5-6/86         7                     L E, E, A, C, S,
M E (IFAD)
Negotiations          11/86
Supervision 1         5/87           2            18       1, E                  NA             NA        Effective
10/21/87
Supervision 2         2-3/88         2            1        16  , A                S              S            PM
Supervision 3         6-7/88         3            18       1, A, PC (IFAD)        S              S            PM
Supervision 4         3-4/89         3            16       1, A, PC (IFAD)        S              S           PM, P
Supervision 5         02/90          5           20        1, A, A (IFAD),        S              S         PM, P, PR
EX
Supervision 6         10/90          2            12       1, A                  U              U 3          PM,P
Supervision 7         11/91          1            8        1P W
Supervision 8         10-11/92       6            17       1, A, A (IFAD),        S              S          PM,W,P
F, PC (IFAD),
R
Supervision 9         6-7/93         3            18       I, A, I (IFAD)        U               S           PM, F
Supervision 10        04/94          3           19        1, A, F,               S              S           PM,F
Supervision 11        11-12/94       4            19       1,A,H,                 S              S           PM,F
PC (lFAD)
Supervision 12        03/96          4           20        1, A, F, 0                           S            PM
Supervision 13        11/96          3            14       1, A,O                 S              S            PM
' A = Agriculturist; C = Credit Specialist; E = Economist; EX  Extension Specialist; F = Financial Analyst; H = Horticulturist;
I = Irrigation Engineer; ME = Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; 0 = Operations Officer; PC = Project Controller; R = Rural Instituions
Specialist; S = Soil Conservation Specialist
bv HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactoty
d D = Disbursement; F = Funds; PM   Project Management; P = Political; PR = Procurement; W = Wa
'v Prepared by IFAD, no details available.






ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
l






Ap=ndix A
Page I of 9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765 - ET)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
1. A Mission ' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program visited Ethiopia from 7 to 18
April 1997 to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small-Scale Irrigation
and Soil Conservation Project. Upon arrival, the Mission was provided with a completion report
on the project, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and this has greatly facilitated its
work. The Mission worked with the staff of the MOA and the regions, and undertook field visits
in project areas within Arsi. Meetings were held with the Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE),
previously known as Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB).
2. The Mission would like to express its appreciation to the MOA and to the regional staff for
their assistance and cooperation. Preliminary mission findings and conclusions are presented
below, and are subject to confirmation by IDA management.
B. BACKGROUND
3. The Small-Scale Irrigation and Soil Conservation Project was proposed by an IFAD mission
that visited Ethiopia in late 1985 to formulate a Special Country Program. It was appraised by
IDA in May/June 1986, approved in March 1987 and became effective in October 1987.
Together with an IDA credit of SDR 5.9 million, the project provided for an IFAD loan of SDR
9.3 million and an OPEC loan of US$ 4 million. The IDA credit and the two loans were closed
on December 31, 1996, after three years of extension over the original five year project period.
4. The main objectives of the project were to improve agricultural production by developing
small-scale irrigation and protecting the degradation of land in the highland. The project
comprised:
Small-Scale Irrigation Sub-Program
(a) National support for small-scale irrigation by strengthening the Irrigation Development
Department (IDD) at headquarters and establishing an irrigation support unit at the AIDB.
iMessr. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, FAO) and Berhane Manna (Operations Officer, World Bank).



Appendix A
Page 2 of 9
(b)  Zonal support for small-scale irrigation by strengthening the Rural Infrastructure
Development Department and Cooperative Promotion Agricultural Development
Department at the Zonal offices in Asela and Harar.
(c)  Provision of funds for the construction and rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation through
direct financing by IDD and AIDB credit.
Soil Conservation and Agricultural Support Sub - Program
(d)  National support for conservation planning by strengthening the Community Forest and Soil
Conservation Development Department (CFSCDD) at headquarters.
(e)  Zonal support in Hararghe for conservation based trials.
(f)  Zonal support in Hararghe for strengthening agricultural extension service based on
modified training and visit system.
(g)  Zonal support in Hararghe for bund stabilization.
(h)  Zonal support in Hararghe for rural women's development program.
(i)  Monitoring and Evaluation.
5.  Project organization and management was based on the administrative setup and the
organizational structure of the MOA that existed during project formulation. The IDD, under the
Vice Minister for Rural Infrastructure Main Department, and the CFSCDD, under the Vice
Minister for Natural Resources and Conservation Development Department, were responsible,
respectively, for the Small-Scale Irrigation and Conservation and Agricultural Support Sub-
Programs. Both IDD and CFSCDD were to implement their respective sub-programs in
cooperation with their zonal offices. A Central Coordination Committee (CCC), to be chaired by
the Vice Minister for Rural Infrastructure Development Main Department, was to ensure project
coordination. Its members would be, the head of AIDB, the MOA zonal managers for Arsi/Bale
and Hararghe, and the MOA department heads of IDD, CFSCDD, Agricultural Extension
Department (AED), Agricultural Development Department (ADD), Animal Husbandry and Feed
Development Department (AHFDD) and the Planning and Program Department (PPD). While
the AIDB was to provide credit to farmers for irrigation development through producer
cooperatives (PCs), the AED, ADD and AHFDD were assigned to implement the extension,
conservation based agronomic trials and bund stabilization components, respectively. The
Technical Support Unit of PPD was expected to provide secretariat to the CCC and a Coordinator
to the project, while Zonal Committees were to coordinate implementation in the field.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
General
6.     Important administrative, institutional and political changes have taken place during the
project implementation period, and these have affected project execution. The major ones were:
(a) the administrative reorganization of 1988/89 that changed the four-tier administrative system
(zone, region, awraja and woreda) to two-tier system based on 25 regions and 354 awrajas; the
dissolution of the PCs in 1990; the overthrow of the Dergue Government in May 1991; the
change of the administrative structure in 1992 into three-tier system (14 regions, 54 zones and



Awpcia&A
Page 3 of 9
655 woredas); the re-organization of the MOA into two Ministries in 1992, i.e. the MOA and
Ministry of Natural Resource Development and Environmental Protection (MNRDEP); and the
subsequent amalgamation of these two ministries again into the MOA in 1995. These changes
entailed frequent staff changes and disruptions in project implementation. A mid-term review was
carried out in 1991/92 and acknowledged that project implementation progress was limited
essentially to staff training, technical assistance and procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Little physical progress was made in organizing and developing irrigation and soil conservation
activities. Therefore, the appraisal target in irrigation development was reduced from 4,400 ha to
3,500 ha, and bund stabilization from 9,500 ha to 1,800 ha. Most of the physical works achieved
by the project were made during the last three years of the project period, facilitated by the
encouraging economic and political climate that emerged in the country.
Irrigation Development
7.  Construction  and  Rehabilitation  of Irrigation  schemes. Progress  in  irrigation
development was slow. By the original credit closing date at the end of 1993, total area
constructed and rehabilitated amounted to about 215 ha, or only, 6 % of the revised target. This
was mainly due to farmers' refusal to borrow for the construction of the schemes from AIDB
through the intermediation of the PCs. The latter were seen by the farmers and their communities
as repressive institutions. After the dissolution of the PCs in 1990, an institutional void was also
created, and the credit could not be disbursed all together. Progress in irrigation development was
made only after the decision to finance construction of the schemes directly by IDD, and to
organize farmers into water user's associations (WUAs) was taken. This idea was proposed by an
IDA supervision mission in 1990, and started to be implemented after the mid term review, but
gathered momentum only in 1993, when vigorous formation of WUAs took place, together with
the construction of schemes. The WUAs were involved from the inception in the development of
the irrigation schemes, sometimes contributing voluntary labour, and receiving training on how
to operate irrigation schemes. By the end of the project closing date, irrigation development
covered 47 schemes for a total area of 3,200 ha, equivalent to about 92 % of the revised target.
The direct financing by IDD and the formation of the WUAs were the main reasons for the
accelerated development. The transfer of implementation responsibility to the regions has also
contributed to a more expeditions execution of the irrigation schemes, since this has reduced
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures.
8.  Institutional Development.  The project has provided strong training and technical
assistance (TA) inputs in irrigation related matters, and these have greatly improved staff
capability in designing, constructing and supervising irrigation schemes (para 19). The TA
personnel has prepared numerous manuals and guidelines concerning the planning, designing,
construction of irrigation schemes and in preparing bidding, evaluating and awarding of contracts
(para 19).
9. Agricultural Development and Utilization of the Schemes. Agricultural production in the
irrigation schemes is taking place as envisaged. Farmers are able to produce at least two crops on
their irrigated areas. In general a farm family has 0.25 ha of irrigated land. Apart from producing
additional crop under irrigation during the dry season, farmers are also providing supplementary



Awppdi A
Page 4 of 9
irrigation to their traditional rainfed  crops during the rainy season; hence avoiding risks
associated with poor or erratic rains. Crops produced under irrigation are mainly horticultural
crops. The project has succeeded in expanding the mix of irrigated crops, which was dominated
by onion and potato, by introducing other crops such as chilly, cabbage, tomato, lettuce, banana,
(cavendish variety) and papaya (solo variety). While the banana variety is newly introduced to the
project areas from other parts of the country, the solo papaya variety is totally new to the
country. The extension service was instrumental in broadening the crop mix by undertaking
demonstrations on farmers' fields and distributing seeds, after undertaking the necessary varietal,
fertilizer and irrigation trials.
10. In most cases, the schemes constructed are put under cultivation soon after they are
completed. In some instances, however, production seasons have been missed in completed
irrigation areas, because some WUAs have not been prepared early enough to cultivate their
irrigated lands promptly. Reasons for these include: late handing over of the schemes by the
Water, Mining and Energy Resources Development Bureau (WMERDB) to the Agricultural
Development Bureau (ADB); delayed orientation to farmers on the utilization and management of
irrigation water; or a combination of these factors. Even though WUAs are formed in all
schemes, the bulk of the irrigation developed last year has not yet been cropped, mainly due to
poor coordination between the WMERDB and ADB in the regions. Although cropping patterns
are prepared in advance by the ADB, they seem to concentrate essentially on agronomic aspects,
neglecting market consideration. Some farmers have been growing the new papaya and banana
varieties, as recommended by extension, but were not able to sell their crops for lack of market
outlet. This situation has discouraged farmers, and could have been avoided if the recommended
cropping patterns took account of market availability and marketing issues.
11. The irrigation schemes are now being operated and maintained by the WUAs. Irrigation
channels are cleaned on established timetable, and the structures are guarded by members against
damages by animals. The WUAs are also responsible for establishing the method of utilization of
irrigation, and are empowered to penalize non confirming members. Farmers are appreciative of
the WUAs, and have strong feeling of belonging to their respective association. A total of 47
WUAs have been formed so far, and there is now a drive to register the WUA as cooperatives so
that they can acquire legal entity. To this effect, farmers have started to contribute money and to
fulfill all the requirements for registration. One WUA has been already registered as a
cooperatives and five are in the process of being registered. The establishment of the WUAs has
resolved the issue of cost recovery conclusively, since they will be totally responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes. In the future, the WUAs are also expected
to become a vehicle for input delivery, including credit, and for marketing members' produce.
Soil Conservation and Agricultural Support
12. National Conservation Support Unit. At appraisal, it was proposed to establish a national
conservation unit within the CFSCDD to become a focal point for all conservation activities.
However, after initial delays, it was decided not to establish any special unit, but instead to
distribute the functions of this unit to the different sections of the CFSCDD.



Apendix A
Page 5 of 9
13. Conservation Based Agronomic Trials. Since conservation practices in Ethiopia were
limited essentially to physical treatment of lands by terracing, bunding and gully plugging, the
project proposed to introduce conservation through biological means. Six trial sites were
identified in Hararghe soon after project effectiveness. However, uncertainty over implementation
responsibility between ADD and CFSCDD delayed their development. When this issue was
resolved in favor of ADD, the latter established two trial sites before the mid-term review, and a
third one after. Several trial methods were envisaged, viz., alley cropping, strip cropping, inter-
cropping, contour ploughing, minimum tillage and cover crops. After the mid-term review,
however, the ADB of the Oromiya Region concentrated on alley cropping of maize and sorghum
with Sesbania and Leucenia. Trial analysis carried out in East Hararghe during 1993-1996, have
shown that yield of maize and sorghum under alley cropping were much higher than those
obtained under traditional farming. In addition, farmers were able to harvest fodder crops.
14 Bund Stabilization. This program aimed at stabilizing the bunds constructed on croplands
by vegetative means, using mainly fodder grasses and legumes. Although it was agreed at
appraisal that the AHFDD would be responsible for this component, the CFSCDD decided to
implement this component by itself. Since grass and fodder seed production was an important
element of this program, five nurseries were established by 1989 in Hararghe on land taken away
from farmers. This raised farmers' resentment, and they boycotted the program. After the over
throw of the Dergue, and the civil strife that followed, farmers destroyed the nurseries and took
back their land. During the mid-term review only 120 ha of bunds were subjected to stabilization
works. Hence, it was decided to reduce the appraisal target of 9,500 ha to 1,800 ha. The
development approach was also changed to become dialogue based and participatory. Therefore,
between early 1993 and the end of 1996, the project succeeded in covering an area of 2,600 ha of
bunds, 44% higher than the revised target. This achievement was the result of the changed
approach, because farmers were convinced of the benefits of bund stabilization in terms of soil
conservation and fodder production.
Training and Visit (T&V) Based Agricultural Extension System.
15. A modified T&V extension was introduced over 20 woredas of Hararghe soon after project
effectiveness. This component aimed to improve the ratio of Development Agent (DA) and farm
families form 1:2,500 to 1:1,300. To this end the project provided funds for vehicles and
audiovisual equipment, and strengthened extension staff by establishing new positions of subject
matter specialist (SMS) in agronomy and biological soil conservation, and by increasing the
number of DAs. While extension was making headway towards achieving its established
objectives, the successive administrative changes and the civil strife in 1991/92 have disrupted its
progress as a result of frequent staff transfers and loss of equipment and vehicles. From 1993
onwards the program was reorganized to cover 16 woredas in East and West Hararghe, and 2 in
Diredawa. The T & V system was largely in place at project completion. However, it is now
being discontinued as the Government has decided to follow the Sasakawa-Global 2000 model.
To this end, thousands of half hectare demonstrations plots are being established on farmers fields
for the major crops.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 9
Rural Women's Development.
16. After a slow start, the vegetable gardens development program gained momentum starting
from 1990, and succeeded in establishing about 450 vegetable garden, each of about 200 sq.m,
which is about 20% higher than appraisal target. The project provided the beneficiaries with
vegetable seeds and extension service. About half of the vegetable production is consumed by the
family, while the other half is sold in the market, contributing to improved nutrition and incomes.
Many women are now re-investing in expanding their vegetable gardens or in livestock
production, and three of these women were given national awards for their successful ventures.
17. The AIDB credit for income generating micro projects did not make progress throughout the
project implementation period, mainly due to women's reluctance to work with or through the
socialist based PCs. However, the situation improved after the change of economic policy with
the new Government and with DBE's change in lending procedures. These changes included: the
provision of loan to women formed voluntarily into groups; introduction of group liability for
loan security; coverage of the livestock purchased on credit under insurance; and waving the
requirement to co-sign loans by the borrowers' husbands. After the introduction of these changes,
the program took off in a remarkable manner. At completion, about Birr 2.2 million were
disbursed to 3,729 women organized into 413 groups. About 75% of the credit was given to
purchase dairy cows, and the remainder for sheep and goat production. Loan repayment has not
yet started, but DBE is hopeful about the positive outcome.
Monitoring and Evaluation
18. The monitoring and evaluation of project activities was assigned to the project Coordination
Monitoring and Evaluation Department of the MOA, and within it, to the Monitoring and
Evaluation Division (MED). Although the main purpose of MED was to assist management by
providing relevant information on a timely basis, to assist implementing departments in
establishing appropriate plans and to consolidate progress report, its activities were limited
essentially to compiling reports. In spite of the provision of an important TA input, the MED
monitoring activities did not develop, mainly due to the disruptions caused by the institutional
and administrative changes that characterized project implementation. Other reasons were the lack
of precise indication at appraisal on the subjects to be monitored and evaluated, as well as on the
method to be used in monitoring and evaluation project activities. The MED has, however,
organized the mid-term review satisfactorily.
Technical Assistance and Training
19. Institutional capacity building through TA and training was an important objective of the
project. TA support and staff training was envisaged for all the major project activities. Overall,
about 237 man-months of technical assistance or 57% of appraisal estimates was used. About
90% of the TA input went for irrigation development, and the remainder was sub-divided
between agricultural support services and monitoring and evaluation. The TA has made a positive
impact to the MOA institutional development, particularly on those regarding irrigation. Apart
from actual support in planning designing, construction and supervision of irrigation schemes, the



Appendix A
Page 7 of 9
TA personnel has prepared about 55 manuals and guidelines on topics related to irrigation
development. The project has also provided strong training element.  About 90 staff were
provided with long and short term overseas training. Some 40% of the training was given to
irrigation development. In addition to the overseas training, a large number of staff were given on
the job and in-service training.
Procurement
20. Procurement was carried out under the MOA's Procurement Department. Since the
implementation of most of the project programs was delayed, the slow process of procurement
did not affect the project. A large number of vehicles (85 cars and 95 motor cycles), 24
construction equipment's, four prefabricated houses, four tractors and trailers and audio visual
equipment have been procured with out major difficulties. Part of this equipment was, however,
lost during the civil strife. Some office buildings, vehicle workshops and stores, for a total floor
area of 1,820 Sq.m, was also established in the zonal offices of Arsi and Hararghe.
Organization and Management
21. The organization and management setup proposed at appraisal was disrupted by the
successive administrative and institutional changes, and staff transfers, resulting in management
difficulties. This situation was further aggravated by a lack of plan for staff deployment, and by
some loose proposals made at appraisal. Firstly, it was unrealistic to expect that a small section
within the PPD could coordinate the activities of the major departments. In fact, this did not
materialize, and IDD provided the overall coordinator, although the CFSCDD had its own
coordinator for the soil conservation components. This had de facto introduced a split in the line
of command, particularly after the CCC was weakened following the abolishment of the
administrative zones and the transfer of CFSCDD to another Ministry, the MNREP. Secondly,
the fact that the CFSCDD resisted the idea of ADD and AHFDD implementing the conservation
based agricultural trials and bund stabilization (paras 13 and 14), indicates that the CFSCDD had
some reservation on the proposed implementation responsibilities. If these issues were sorted out
at appraisal, the discussions that emerged between departments and the delays that followed,
would have been avoided. Apart from these observation, it can be said that the MOA and its
departments have coped remarkably well with the many administrative and institutional changes
and high staff turn over that took place during the past years.
Project Costs and Financing
22. At completion, total project costs amounted to US$13.92 million or 41%  of appraisal
estimates. Actual costs were lower than appraisal estimates, because of the slow pace of
implementation of the major components which were eventually down scaled during the mid-term
review. Total disbursement by IDA, IFAD and OPEC amounted to US$ 4.63 million, 5.53
million and 1.70 million, respectively, or 66 %, 42 % and 43 % of the original plans.



Appendix A
Page 8 of 9
IDA and Borrower Performance
23. The first five years were characterized by disruptions caused by administrative, institutional
and political changes, which were beyond the project's control. The performance of IDA and the
Borrower in the context of project implementation should be therefore, considered from 1992/93
onwards, when the situation was more stabilized. During this period, the performance of IDA
and the borrower was satisfactory, in that they both endeavored to recuperate the time lost in
achieving project objectives by extending the project period. In particular, IDA's agreement to
extend the project to the maximum allowable period of three years was positive and farsighted.
Most of the project's achievements were indeed realized during this extension period. Although
clarified during the course of project implementation, some laxity during project appraisal with
regard to project organization and management (para 21) had contributed to delayed project
execution.
Project Impact
24. The project has made a significant contribution to the economic development of the country
by demonstrating sustainable development approaches to irrigation and soil conservation, and by
organizing women to produce vegetables and to obtain credit for income generating projects. The
project's strong capacity building efforts in irrigation development have laid the foundation for
undertaking much longer programs in the future. The establishment of WUAs have also provided
the country with a development approach that is sustainable and replicable. The project has
introduced new development concepts, i.e. bund stabilization by biological means and
conservation based agricultural trials. Further, the project has introduced several horticultural
crops in the irrigated areas, thereby increasing farmers' agricultural base.  Preliminary
assessments indicate that the irrigation schemes will yield attractive returns to the farmers and to
the country's economy. Environmentally, the project has made important contribution to the
stabilization of bunds on croplands, albeit at a pilot scale. The environmental impact of the
irrigation schemes has not yet been studied, and there are no details that can enable any sort of
assessment.
E.  FUTURE OPERATIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
25. After project completion, the regional governments have continued to support the irrigation
schemes and the soil conservation works by incorporating them under their regular programs.
Therefore, farmers within the irrigation schemes are provided with extension services and
assisted in strengthening their WUAs. However, the actual operation and maintenance of the
irrigation schemes is being carried out by the WUAs, and this is expected to continue in the
future.
26. The main lessons that can be learned from the project are:
Project design should avoid to involve institutions that are considered by farmers as
repressive, because they will shy away from active participation.



Appendix A
Page 9 of 9
*   As demonstrated by farmers' response to WUA and by women groups in Hararghe, farmers
will voluntarily form associations if they believe that they will benefit from such bodies.
*   Implementation of complimentary activities by two separate government units may result in
less optimal sequencing of activities, as demonstrated by the WMERDB and ADB with
regard to irrigation; indicating extra efforts for coordination, if not their consolidation in
one unit.
*   Establishment of WUAs should be carried out before the commencement of construction, as
this will prepare farmers to operate their schemes on time when they are ready.
*   Monitoring and evaluation activities of a project must be precisely defined at appraisal, and
should include details on the information to be collected and on the form and frequency of
reporting.
*   Selection and assignment of staff and their designation for training should be completed
before the project starts in order to avoid delays in project implementation.






ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
APPENDIX B
NOTE ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765 - ET)
APPENDIX B
NOTE ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table of Contents
General ................. 1
Project Benefits .............................. 1
Market and Prices                       .................. 2
Project Costs ..................3
Farm Incomes ...................3
Economic Rate of Return                        ..................3
Tables
1.     Maize Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Hararghe Rainy Season Farm Budget:
Production and Inputs (Detailed)
2.     Maize Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Hararghe Rainy Season Farm Budget:
Financial Budget (Aggregated)
3.     Wheat Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Arsi/Bale Region Farm Budget:
Production and Inputs (Detailed)
4.     Wheat Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Arsi/Bale Region Farm Budget: Financial
budget (Aggregated)
5.     Vegetable and Fruit Farming (0.25 ha) - Dry Season Farm Budget: Production and
Inputs (Detailed)
6.     Vegetable and Fruit Farming (0.25 ha) - Dry Season Farm Budget: Financial Budget
(Aggregated)
7.     Import Parity Price of Fertilizers
8.     Import Parity Price of Wheat, Maize and Sorghum
9.     Input/Output Prices
10a.   Project Cost (in Birr)
10b.   Project Cost (in million US$)
11.    Economic Analysis






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
APPENDIX B
NOTE ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
General
1.       The project has commenced to generate considerable economic benefits, particularly
within the established irrigation farms. Agricultural production in these farms is carried out twice a
year - in the rainy and dry seasons - and some progressive farmers are even managing to grow a third
crop. Apart from the dry season cropping, which was made possible by the project, the availability of
irrigation water all year round has changed the production system of the traditional crops. This is
because farmers have started to adopt improved methods of production, including the use of modern
inputs, as they are no more threatened by droughts or by erratic rain. Benefits are also accruing from
the Soil Conservation and Agricultural Support Programmes, albeit on a pilot scale. The bund
stabilization and the conservation-based agricultural trial programmes have assisted participating
farmers in producing high quality fodder, in addition to soil conservation. The rural women's
development programmes have enabled beneficiary women to increase their income and improve
their nutritional levels. The most important benefit of these programmes is, however, their
demonstration effect, in that they have shown approaches on how to deal with soil conservation and
poverty in the rural areas in an intelligent and replicable manner.
Project Benefits
2.        Although the project continues to generate quantifiable benefits in terms of feed,
livestock and vegetable production, only crops produced under the 3,230 ha of irrigated area
developed by the project, are considered in the economic analysis. These are maize and wheat during
the wet season and horticultural crops during the dry season.
3.        Three farm models of 0.25 ha each have been used in order to assess project output: (a)
maize under supplementary irrigation in Hararghe; (b) wheat under supplementary irrigation in
Arsi/Bale; and (c) dry season irrigation of horticultural crops in both areas. At present, the dominant
rainfed crops in Hararghe and Arsi/Bale are sorghum and barley, respectively. However, with the
availability of supplementary irrigation, farmers are gradually shifting from sorghum to maize and
from barley to wheat in order to maximise their returns from using modern inputs. Accordingly, the
farm budgets related to supplementary irrigation are based on sorghum and barley production in the
without project situation, and on maize and wheat with the project.



Appendix s
Page 2 of 15
4.        As regards to irrigation in the dry season no production has been assumed in the without
project situation. The horticultural crops produced in the area include chilly, onion, potato, garlic,
cabbage, tomato, banana, papaya, coffee and citrus. Onion and potato production was traditionally
practised by many farmers in the project area, but cultivation of the other crops was essentially
introduced by the project. For analytical purposes, two vegetable and two fruit crops have been
selected to represent the horticultural crops, i.e. onion representing the established vegetable crops,
and chilly, banana and papaya, the new crops. The area cultivated under banana and papaya has been
estimated to be 0.05 ha and that of onion and chilly 0.1 ha each. Since an area equivalent to 0.05 ha
will be permanently cropped by the fruits, the cultivation of maize and wheat in the dry season will
be limited to 0.2 ha only.
5.        Crop yields per ha at full development, with recommended use of fertilizers, has been
assumed to be 3.5 tons for maize, 2.5 tons for wheat, 18 tons for onion; 10 tons for chilly; 20 tons for
papaya, and 25 tons for banana. These yields are currently attained under irrigated conditions. Full
development yields are assumed to be achieved after five years of cultivation, which is a long
enough period for learning. Total project production at full development is estimated as follows:
Incremental Project Production at Full Development
Crop                Tons
Maize               4,100
Wheat               3,500
Onion               5,800
Chilly              3,200
Papaya              3,200
Banana              4,000
Market and Prices
6.        Project output is too small to cause any serious impact on the domestic supply, but will
contribute positively to the regional supply of food crops. Maize and wheat produced under the
project will be partly consumed domestically, and any surplus marketed without difficulty, being
staple crops. Chilly and onion will also be marketed easily in the regions for resale to major towns,
as they are produced during the dry season, which corresponds to the period of low supply of
vegetables. These vegetables have a relatively better shelf life compared to the leafy vegetables.
Some difficulties may be encountered in banana and papaya marketing, particularly those produced
in distant areas. However, the WUAs and extension staff in the regions have started to assist in
marketing these crops by organizing producers to make arrangements with wholesalers in the main
towns, where the demand is growing and prices are high. However, it should be realized that prices
will remain relatively low until these areas are better organized. Accordingly the prevailing prices of
Birr 0.8 per kg for banana and Birr 0.4 per kg for papaya have been used in the analysis, and are
equivalent to 20-25% of the retail price in Addis Ababa. Prices for the vegetables have been
assumed to be Birr 1.0 per kg for onion and potato, equivalent to the price of the lowest season in the
project area. Financial prices for maize are average farm-gate price in the project area of Birr 0.80



Applendix R
Page 3 of 15
per kg for wheat and Birr 0.6 per kg for maize. The latter is equivalent to the floor price declared by
the Government. Prices for project outputs and inputs are summarized in Table 9.
Project Costs
7.        Investment costs in current prices, shown in Table 10, have been used in the cost
streams, after being converted to 1996 prices. Costs are net of duties and taxes. About Birr 70 per ha
have been allowed in the farm budgets to cover the project's operation and maintenance costs. With
the exception of fertilizers, all inputs have been costed using their financial values.
Farm Incomes
8.        Farm incomes calculated for the project are partial and are related to the 0.25 ha of
irrigated land developed by the project. Although the improved cultivation methods acquired under
the project will also affect the other areas farmed by project beneficiaries, the farm income analysis
does not take into account the benefits that accrue from these farms. Incomes estimated for the
project developed farms are about Birr 3,900 per 0.25 ha in the two seasons. These should be
considered as very attractive, as they are several fold those incomes generated under rainfed farming.
Economic Rate of Return
9.        An economic analysis has been carried out for the project. Project investment costs have
been readjusted to 1996 using the consumer price index for the country. No adjustment was made to
project benefits given the negligible production before project completion in 1996. Replacement
costs have been covered by allowing generous operation and maintenance costs. All farm costs,
including labour have been entered in the cost streams using their financial values, with exception of
fertilizers for which import parity prices have been used (Table 7). Wheat, maize and sorghum have
also been valued at their respective import parity prices, as calculated in Table 8.
10.       The adjusted costs and benefits have been used to compute an Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) for the project. These calculations have yielded an ERR of 25%, which is higher than what
was estimated at appraisal i.e. 19%. The main reasons for this are the relatively low investment costs
incurred under the project, compared to appraisal, on the one hand, and the inclusion of benefits
derived through supplementary irrigation in the rainy season, on the other. The project does not
appear to be sensitive to reasonable increase in costs or decrease in benefits (Table I 1).



Appendix B
Page 4 of 15
Table 1. Maize Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Hararghe Rainy Season Farm Budget: Production and Inputs (detailed)
Ethiopia
Project
Maize Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Hararghe Rainy Season Farm Budget                            Crop year
PRODUCTION AND INPUTS (Detailed)                                                  Without
(In Units)                                                                        Project                    With Project
Unit     i to 20       1          2           3        4 to 20
Main Production
Maize/Sorghum 1/                                                       Kg            260        400         500        600         700
Operaffng
Purchased Inputs
Seed Maize                                                           kg              1          6           6           6          6
Urea                                                                 Kg              -         10          10          10         20
DAP                                                                  Kg              -         15          15          15         15
Insecticide                                                           Lt                      0.36       0.36        0.36        0.36
Fungicide                                                            Kg              -        0.28       0.28        0.28        0.28
Labor
Family Labour                                                        day            27         29          29          30         31
Draught Animals                                                      day             6          6           6          6           6
1/ The crop produced in the without project situation in sorghum.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 15
Table 2. Maize Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Hararghe Rainy Season Farmn Budget: Financial Budget (aggregated)
Ethiopia
Project
Maize Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Hararghe Rainy Season Farmn Budget
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                                                                       Crop year
(In Birr)                                                                 Without Project                   With Project
I to 19    20        1         2        3     4 to 19    20
Main Production
Agricultural crops                                                       156.0    156.0    240.0    300.0   360.0   420.0   420.0
Production Cost
Purchased Inputs
Seed                                                                     1.0      1.0       6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
Fertilizer & Chemicals                                                     -        -    119.2    119.2   119.2   137.2   137.2
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs                                                 1.0      1.0    125.2    125.2   125.2   143.2   143.2
Hired Labor
Labour                                                                 270.0    270.0    282.0    282.0   288.0   294.0   294.0
Sub-Total Production Cost                                                  271.0    271.0    407,2    407.2   413.2   437.2   437.2
OUTFLOWS                                                                 271.0    271.0    407.2    407.2   413.2   437.2   437.2
Cash Flow Before Financing                                                -115.0   -115.0   -167.2   -107.2   -53.2   -17.2   -17.2
Net Financing                                                                  -        -         -      -6.0   -24.0       -        -
Cash Flow After Financing                                                 -115.0   -115.0   -167.2   -113.2   -77.2   -17.2   -17.2
Change in Net Worth
Contribution from own savings                                                -        -    136.2         -        -        -       -
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                                                     -    271.0         -        -                     437.2
Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                                                  -    271.0   -136.2         -        -        -   437.2
Farm Family Benefits After Financing                                      -115.0    156.0   -303.4   -113.2   -77.2   -17.2   420.0
IRR = 33.2%, NPV = 372.97



Appendix B
Page 6 of 15
Table 3. Wheat Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Arsi/Bale Region Farm Budget: Production and Inputs (detailed)
Ethiopia
Project
Wheat Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Arsi/Bale Region Farm Budget                                     Crop year
PRODUCTION AND INPUTS (Detailed)                                               Without
(In Units)                                                                     Project                           With Project
Unit     I to 20       1           2           3           4         5to 20
Main Production
Wheat/Barley                                                        Kg            220         280         320         360         400         500
Operating
Purchased Inputs
Seed Wheat/Barley                                                 kg             25          25          25          25          25          25
Urea                                                              Kg              -          10          10          10          10          10
DAP                                                               Kg              -          15          15          15          15          15
Insecticide                                                       Lt              -        0.36        0.36        0.36        0.36        0.36
Fungicide                                                         Kg              -        0.28        0.28        0.28        0.28        0.28
Labor
Family Labour                                                     day            22          23          24          25          25          25
Draught Animals                                                   day             6           6           6           6           6           6
1/ The crop produced in the without project situation is wheat



Appendix B
Page 7 of 15
Table 4. Wheat Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Arsi/Bale Region Farm Budget: Financial Budget (aggregated)
Ethiopia
Project
Wheat Supplementary Irrigation (0.25 ha) - Arsi/Bale Region Farm Budget
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                                                                       Crop year
(In Birr)                                                            Without Project                         With Project
1to19     20        1         2         3        4      5to19      20
Main Production
Agricultural crops                                                  176.0   176.0    224.0    256.0    288.0   320.0   400.0   400.0
Production Cost
Purchased Inputs
Seed                                                               30.0    30.0       30.0      30.0      30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Fertilizer & Chemicals                                                -        -    119.2    119.2    119.2   119.2   119.2   119.2
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs                                           30.0    30.0    149.2    149.2    149.2   149.2   149.2   149.2
Hired Labor
Labour                                                            240.0   240.0    246.0    252.0    258.0   258.0   258.0   258.0
Sub-Total Production Cost                                             270.0   270.0    395.2    401.2    407.2   407.2   407.2   407.2
OUTFLOWS                                                            270.0   270 0      395.2    401.2    407.2   407.2   407.2   407.2
Cash Flow Before Financing                                            -94.0   -94.0   -171.2   -145.2   -119.2   -87.2    -7.2    -7.2
Net Financing                                                             -        -      -6.0      -6.0         -        -        -       -
Cash Flow After Financing                                              -94.0   -94.0   -177.2   -151.2   -119.2   -87.2         -7.2    -7.2
Change in Net Worth
Contribution from own savings                                           -        -    125.2          -         -        -        -        -
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                                                -   270.0          -         -         -        -        -   407.2
Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                                             -   270 0    -125.2          -         -        -        -   407.2
Farm Family Benefits After Financing                                   -94.0   176.0   -302.4   -151.2   -119.2   -87.2    -7.2   400.0
IRR = 18.4%, NPV = 153.64



Appendix B
Page 8 of 15
Table 5. Vegetable and Fruit Farming (0.25 ha) - Dry Season Farming Budget: Production and Inputs (detailed)
Ethiopia
Project
Vegetable and Fruit Farning - Dry Season (0.25 ha) Farm budget                                            Crop year
PRODUCTION AND INPUTS (Detailed)                                     Without
(In Units)                                                           Project                                    With Project
Unit   1 to 20      1             2            3             4            5          6to20
Main Production
Chilly                                                      Kg           -          600          700           800          900          1,000        1,000
Onion                                                       Kg           -         1,300        1,400         1,500        1,600         1,700        1,800
Papaya                                                      Kg           -          375          400           425          450           475          500
Banana                                                      Kg           -          500          525           550          575           600          625
Operating
Purchased Inputs
Seed Chilly                                               kg                     0.06          0.06         0.06          0.06         0.06          0.06
Seed Onion                                                kg           -          0.4           0.4          0.4           0.4          0.4           0.4
Seed Papaya                                               kg           -       0.0125             -            -        0.0125            -             -
Urea                                                      Kg           -       37.595        40.075       42.555        42.555       42.555        42.555
DAP                                                       Kg           -        19.29         23.71           28           28            28           28
MOP                                                       Kg           -        84 45         84.45        84.45         84.45        84.45         84.45
Insecticide                                                Lt          -        1.125         1.625        2.125         2.125        2.125         2.125
Fungicide                                                 Kg           -          0.9           1.3          1.7           1.7          1.7           1.7
Irrigation O&M                                            Birr         -         22.5          22.5         22.5          22.5         22.5          22.5
Planting Material                                         Birr         -        77.15             -            -         77.15            -             -
Labor
Family Labour                                             day          -         42.5         44.75           47        49.125       49 125        49.125
Draught Animals                                           day          -          7.5          6.75         6.75           7.5         6.75          6.75



Appendix B
Page 9 of 15
Table 6. Vegetable and Fruit Farming (0.25 ha) - Dry Season Farm Budget: Financial Budget (aggregated)
Ethiopia
Project
Vegetable and Fruit Farming - Dry Season (0.25 ha) Farm budget                                     Crop year
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                                 Without
(In Birr)                                                      Project                                 With Project
1 to 20     1           2         3          4          5       6 to 19      20
Main Production
Agricultural crops                                                -      2,450.0    2,680.0    2,910.0    3,140.0    3,370.0    3,500.0    3,500.0
Production Cost
Purchased Inputs
Seed                                                            -        72.7       47.7       47.7      72.7       47.7       47.7       47.7
Fertilizer & Chemicals                                          -       500.2      613.5      726.5     726.5      726.5      726.5      726.5
Others                                                          -        99.7       22.5       22.5      99.7       22.5       22.5       22.5
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs                                        -       672.5      683.7      796.7     898.8      796.7      796.7      796.7
Hired Labor
Labour                                                          -       390.0      390.0     403.5      429.8      416.3      416.3      416.3
Sub-Total Production Cost                                           -      1,062 5    1,073.7    1,200.2    1,328.6    1,212.9    1,212.9    1,212.9
OUTFLOWS                                                          -      1,062.5    1,073.7    1,200.2    1,328.6    1,212.9    1,212.9    1,212.9
Cash Flow Before Financing                                          -      1,387.5    1,606.3    1,709.8    1,811.4    2,157.1    2,287.1    2,287.1
Net Financing                                                       -       -11.2    -126.5    -128.4       115.7          -          -          -
Cash Flow After Financing                                           -      1,376.3    1,479.8    1,581.4    1,927.1    2,157.1    2,287.1    2,287.1
Change in Net Worth
Contribution from own savings                                     -      1,062.5         -          -         -          -          -          -
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                                          -           -          -         -          -          -          -    1,212.9
Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                                       -    -1,062.5          -          -          -         -          -    1,212.9
Farm Family Benefits After Financing                                -       313.8    1,479.8    1,581.4    1,927.1    2,157.1    2,287.1    3,500.0
IRR = None, NPV = 13,998.59



Appendix-B
Page 10 of 15
Table 7. Import Parity Price of Fertilizers
Unit         Urea        DAP         MOP
FOB Price'                         US$/ton        190          210         119
Ocean freight and Insurance        US$/ton         60           60          60
CIF Price                          US$/ton        250          270         179
CIF Price                          Birr/ton      1,600       1,728       1,146
Port handling and clearance        Birr/ton        35           35          35
Transportation Assab to store in   Birr/ton       260          260         260
regional capitals
Unloading at the transit store     Birr/ton         8            8           8
Loading and transport from transit    Birr/ton    10t          100         100
store to woredas
Storage and related costs          Birr/ton        35           35          35
Economic price at woreda           Birr/ton     2,038       2,166       1,584
1997 Prices, following World Bank Commodity Prices and Price Projections of August 1996.



Appendix B
Page 11 of 15
Table 8. Import Parity Price of Wheat, Maize and Sorghum
Unit        Wheat       Maize      Sorghum
FOB Price'                        US$/ton        185         150         146
Ocean freight and Insurance       US$/ton         60          60          60
CIF Price                         US$/ton        245         210         206
CIF Price                         Birr/ton     1,568        1,344       1,318
Port handling and clearance       Birr/ton        35          35          35
Transportation Assab to stores in  Birr/ton      270         270         270
the regional capitals
Loading, unloading and            Birr/ton       100         100         100
transportation to woredas
Economic Price at woreda          Birr/ton     1,978        1,754       1,728
Transportation farm to woreda     Birr/ton       (50)         (50)        (50)
Storage losses (10%)              Birr/ton      (198)       (175)        (173)
Farm-gate Price                   Birr/ton     1,730        1,529       1,505
1997 Prices, following World Bank Commodity Prices and Price Projections of August 1996.



Appndix B
Page 12 of 15
Table 9. Input/Output Prices
Item                Unit         Financial    Economic Prices
Prices (Birr)          (Birr)
Input
Seed/Planting Material
Maize                           kg             1.00             1.00
Sorghum                         kg             1.00             1.00
Barley                          kg             1.20             1.20
Wheat                           kg             1.20             1.20
Chilly                          kg           60.00             60.00
Onion                           kg           110.25           110.25
Papaya                          kg         2,000.00         2,000.00
Banana                        sucker           1.00             1.00
Labour                       work/day         6.00              6.00
Draght Animals              Bullock/day       18.00            18.00
Irrigation Costs (O&M)          ha           70.00             70.00
Fertilizer
Urea                            kg             1.80             2.04
DAP                             kg            2.00              2.17
MOP                             kg            2.00              1.58
Plant protection chemicals
Insecticide                     It           120.0            120.00
Fungicide                       kg           100.0            100.00
Output
Maize                           kg            0.60              1.53
Sorghum                         kg            0.50              1.50
Barley                          kg            0.70              0.70
Wheat                           kg            0.80              1.73
Chilly                          kg             1.00             1.00
Onion                           kg             1.00             1.00
Papaya                          kg            0.40              0.40
Banana                          kg            0.80              0.80



Appendix B
Page 13 of 15
Tab)le O1a. 1'roject Cost
(in Blirr)
CaLagory                                                                         Project Year
1989            1990            1991            1992            1993            1994            1995             1996
a) Small-Scaie Irrigatlo Sub-
progratme
- Nttiontl Suppoat                   1,730.242.28    2.235.871.82    5,010.293.25    2,446,791.93    2,761,768.93    4.217,623.68    1,409,487.30     5,801,858.35    25,619.937.54
- Zonal Suppon                            .           27,663.03        332,146        334.438.32     1,276.752.59     839,966.69      935,067.36      6,036,698.71    9,332,732.7
- Agrkcultural Servkce Suppolt                         3,198.60       34,990.37       25,627.05       78.081.06       129,262.22      27,129.15        57.316.85       356,105.30
- Scheme ConstJUction                                 32,108.96      131,317.36       634,195.17      798,593.26     1,622.047.10    7.0(4,886.84     7.745,068.89    17,948,217.5R
Sub-total                            1,730.242.28    2.298.42.41    5,488,747.08    3,441,052.47    4,9213195.84    6,808,899.69    9,376,570.65     19.691.442.80    53,756.993.72
b) Conservation tnd Agr,cultural
Support sub-programme
- National Conservation Support                                           -               -                               -.
- Conservation Haed Agrononic Trial t                  1,492 40       15,104 14       8.615 19        22,758.99       53,747.53       97.,03.09        64.802 37       264,323.76
- Bund Siabilizastlo                                  19,068.63       60,872.49       5,713.00        34,611.82       136,596.39      164.370.50       222.360.95      643,593.78
- Extension                              .             5,777.75       138,372.65      28,008.45       105,996.37      231,105.02      393,207.01       415,219.90     1,317,687.15
* Rural Women Development                .             5,837.45       20,618.93       2,413.95        17,734.74       49,001.53       73,376.76        78,619.10       253,102.46
Sub-totl                                              32,176.23       234,923.21      44,750.59       181,101.92      470,17.7.52     734,257.36       731,002.32     2.478.706.37
c) Monitoring and Evehuttion                                           9,360.20        5,056.00        9,995.30       37,522.83       81,582.40        263.360.54      406,877.24
Ouutsanding balaes to regioms(Not                                                                                                                     2.217.443.04    2,217.443,04
yet accounted)
Grand Total                          1,730.242.78    2.331,018.64    5.733,031.38    3.490.859.06     5,112,293.06    7,316,600.09    10,192,410 46   22.953.248.7    53,860.020.37
|Exchange rate I USI) - IPIU            2.07            2.07            2.07            2 07             5.00            5 77           6.25             6 41
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.



Appendix B
Page 14 of 15
'I'able 10>b. Project Cost
(hii miillioni U.3$)
*Catagory                                               I'roject Year
-    -         T~~~~~~lotal
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
a) Small-Scale Ixigation Sub-progranmme
- National Support                               0.84    1.08    2.42    1.182   0.553   0.731    0.226   0.905       7.934
- Zonal Suppont                                   -     0.013   0.161   0.162   0.255   0.146    0.15    0.950        1.835
- Agricultural Service Suppon                     .     0.001   0.017   0.012   0.016   0.022   0.004   0.009         0.082
- Scemne Construction                             -     0.016   0.054   0.306   0.160   0.281    1.121   1.208        3.146
Sub-total                                        0.84    1.110   2.652   1.162   0.984    1.180   1.500   3.072       12.997
b) Conservation and Agricultural Support sub-
programnm
- National Conservation Support
- Conservation Bawd Agronomnic Trials                   0.001    0.007   0.004   0.005   0.009   0.016   0.01         0.051
- Bund Stabilization                                    0W009   0.029   0.003   0.007   0.024    0.026   0.035        0.133
- Extension                                             0.003    0.067   0.014   0.021    0.04    0.063   0.065       0.272
- Rural Women D)evelopment                              0.003    0.01    0.001   0.004   0.008    0.013   0-012       0.051
Sub-total                                               0.016   0.113   0.022   0.036   0.081    0.118   0.122        0.507
c) Monitoring and Lvaluation                              -    0.005    0.002   0.002   0.007    0.013   0.041         0.07
Outstanding Balances to Regions (Not yet accounted)                                                                   0.346
Grand 'Iotal                                    084    I126    277    1,686   1022    1.268    1.631   3.235          13.92
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.



Appendix B
Page 15 ot 15
Table IL. Ecotioink Analysis
'000 Birr
1.       2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10       11         12       13        14        15    16-25
__------                                                                                              -- - ___--_--___--__--_----__-----.- _ _ 
Incremental Benefits
Uararghe Rainy Season               -        -         -         -          -         -     38.0    168.0    506.0   1028,0   1690.0   2310.0   2725.0   2908.0   2908.0   2908. 0
Hararghe Dry Season                 -        -         -         -         -          -    733.0   2211.0   4290.0   6976.0   9769.0  10779.0  11660.0  12528.0  13235.0  13422.0
Arisi/Bale Rainy Season             -        -         -         -      -3,0       7.0      -8.0      36.0    106.0    265.0    696.0   1166.0   1719.0   2217.0   2402.0   2402. 0
Arisi/Bale Dry Season              -          -        -               169.0    280.0   1467.0   2651.0   5528.0   9587.0  12196.0  13218.0  14305.0  15504.0  16197.0  16337.0
Total Benefits                                -        -          -    166.0    283.0   2230.0   5086.0  10430.0  17856.0  24351.0  27473.0  30409.0  33157.0  34742.0  35069.0
Costs
Investment Costs             1842.7   1730.2   4405.6   7968 9   4432.8   6237.0   8340.9  10496.2  22953.3                  -         -          -
Net Benefits
Incremental Net Benefits  -1842.7  -1730.2  -4405.6  -7968.9  -4266.8  -5954 0  -6110.9  -5412.2 -12523.3  17856.0  24351 0  27473 0  30409.0  33157.0  34742.0  35069.0
Switching Values at 10.0%
Appraisal      Switching       Percentage
Stream               Value          Value           Chang6
BTOT               109817.8        37043.1           -66.3%
CTOT                37043.1       109817.8           196.5%
Net Present Value at OCC   10.0% - 72774.7
Internal Rate of Return - 24.8%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return - 33.2%






ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
APPENDIX C
IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY OF AREA DEVELOPED UNDER
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION SCHEMES






Appendix C
Page I of 2
IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY OF AREA DEVELOPED UNDER
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Zone      No.        Schemes        No. of   Status of  Development Achievement   %             Operational Year
Benefi-    WUAs         Target
ciaries               Area (ha)    Area (ha)  _           Start   Complete
Bale             1  Chiri                  140    Established      50            50        100      1994         1995
2  Arda Tarre             288                     120          120        100      1995         1996
3  Haya Oda               178                     100          100        100      1995         1996
4  Dinik                  370                     200          152        76       1995         1996
5  Oda Robe               150                     70           16.8       24       1996         1997
Subtotal                                  1126                     540         438.8     81.26
Arsi             I  Sheled-01              197    Established       50           50        100      1989         1991
2  Metanaineti            180                     40            40        100      1992         1994
3  Delele Sembero         186                     60            60        100      1992         1994
4  Arata Chufa            317                     100          100        100      1992         1994
5  Bosha Spring-01        233                     100          100        100      1992         1994
6  Legedeha Shoba         280                     100          100        100      1992         1995
7  Hassen Usman           366                     230          230        100      1992         1995
8  Kuchura                288                     40            40        100      1995         1995
9  Bosa-02                180                      60           60        100      1995         1995
10  Dagaga Simbro         270                      40           40        100       1995        1995
1  Sheled-02             100                      25           25        100       1995        1996
12  Gedemse-01            450                     143         111.54      78       1993         1996
13  Gedemse-02            300                     120          85.2       71        1995        1996
14  Laffa                 320                      80          54.4       68        1995        1996
15  Sole Bekekisa         300                     100           55         55       1995        1996
16  Sedi-Sed             100                      60           60        100       1995        1995
Subtotal                                  4067                    1348        1211.14    89.8
East             I  Arara-01               276    Established      56            56        100      1993         1995
Hararghe        2  Arara-02                100                     20            20        100      1994         1995
3  Babi Ali               130                     40            40        100      1994         1995
4  Water-Ol               130                      30           30        100      1993         1995
5  Water-02               150                     40            40        100      1994         1995
6  Water-03               160                     40            40        100      1995         1996
7  Said Ali               260                     45            45        100      1995         1996
8  Gelan Sadi             827                     100          100        100      1993         1994
9  Burka                  80                      20            20        100      1995         1995
10  Harrow                133                      60           60        100       1995        1996
11  Duqaa Birbirsa        250                      60           40        66.7      1994        1995
12  Eremadatal            600                     100           100       100       1994        1995
13  Jergertu              300                      60           54        90        1995        1997
1 14  Sofi                   96    _      _          10            10        100      1993         1994
Subtotal      I                           3492                     681          655       96.2



Appendix C
Page 2 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY OF AREA DEVELOPED UNDER
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION SCHEMES
(continued)
Zone       No.    Schemes        No. of   Status of  Development Achievement    %             Operational Year
Benefi-    WUAs         Target
ciaries               Area (ha)    Area (ha)                Start     Complete
West              1  Hirna               63     Established      70           63         90        1994        1995
Hararghe          2  Amnior Dacho        69                      40           40         100       1994         1995
3  Chaafe Gurah       220                     100          100         100       1994        1996
4  Midadu             250                     200          160         80        1996        1997
Subtotal                                602                     410          363         88.5
Total
Oromiya                                 9287                    2979        2667.94      89.6
DireDawa          I  Eladi               28    Established       15            6          40        NR          NR
2  Legehare           64                      60            14         23
3  Fechasie           93                      40            10         25
Subtotal                                185                     115           30         26
Southern          I  Ella                125    Established      80           80         100        NR          NR
Ethiopia          2  Woiybo             240                     150           150        100
3  Kankara            230                     110      _
Subtotal                                595                     340           230        67.6
Total
Development      45                    10067                    3434        2927.94      85.3
* Extracted from "Project Completion Report", March 1997 prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Planning and Programming Department, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia



ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
APPENDIX D
EXTRACT FROM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREPARED BY THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
THE GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
MARCH 1997






Appendix D
Page 1 of 2
EXTRACT FROM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND SOIL CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1765-ET)
PREPARED BY THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
THE GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
APPENDIX D
Executive Summary
1.        The project was appraised in 1987 and its implementation started in 1989. The project
activities were spread over seven departments of MOA and AIDB. The implementation process of
project activities were delayed to the late start-up of project coordination unit (PCU), and coordination
system which supposed to assure the inter-department coordination of the project activities. Moreover,
overall delays were caused by the change in economic policy in 1990, changes of govemment in 1991
and following the regionalization policies which resulted in decentralization of many responsibilities to
the regions in 1992. Due to these circumstances, frequent changes in senior management as well as
experienced staff were also exhibited. All of which beyond the project's control resulted in the
extension of the closing date for a total of three years were permitted to complete the progress
achievement of several components of the project.
2.        Despite of several problems, the performance of the project was successful to address the
overall objectives. The progress implementation of scheme development, bund stabilization, credit for
rural women and institutional capacity in terms of manpower training and technical input were
effectively implemented. These issues were addressed to meet the overall target. In conclusion, the
project has introduced, to the country, new types of development initiations, namely, conservation-
based agronomic trials (CONBATS), biological methods of soil conservation and management and cost
recovery mechanisms by beneficiaries of schemes. These achievements laid basic technical know-how
for future operation.
3.        The project successfully contributed to the strengthening of institutional capacity of MOA
by acquiring know-how through overseas training and technical assistance. About 38 staffs received
overseas degree program and 60 staffs, short term training. Whereas 936 staffs at local level got in-
service training pertinent to each of the project component and 1903 farners also pertinent to training
on various component. Besides, about 237 (63.7%) MM of TAs inputs were utilized under the project
and resulted in the production of a number of manuals (55 no) pertinent to irrigation design, planning,
agronomy, etc.



Appendix D
Page 2 of 2
4.        The project had provided various types of vehicles (86), 95 motorcycles and different types
of construction equipment, survey and field equipment and office equipment.
5.        The project's original goal of developing irrigation infrastructure on 4,400 ha for small-
scale irrigation could not be achieved due to circumstances identified during implementation period
which resulted in the revision of the targets in 1993 (3500 ha). Though the delay mainly occurred due
to the unsuccessful credit provision through AIDB for financing of schemes. Rehabilitation and
construction of irrigation schemes started to gain speed in 1993. Of the 3500 ha of the revised plan for
construction, an area covering 2927.94 ha (85.4%) had been completed and 815.57 ha (27.85%)
actually became under crop production. The progress establishment of WUAs and the involvement of
the beneficiaries remained satisfactory and 45 WUAs are put in place. The legalization of WUAs have
been under way and one of them (Said Ali in East Harerghe) was registered as legal cooperatives.
Besides, five WUAs: Sheled, Arata Chuffa, Bosha Spring, Babil, Ali and Arara 01 were being in the
process of completion of the formalities (contribution of registration fees and others) for the registration
of irrigation cooperatives under the project.
6.        The interventions of the project in increasing effective water use improved seeds and
irrigation husbandry in general through the establishment and conducting of trial (13) and
demonstrations (156) were shown a promising start to improve the overall productivity of small-scale
irrigation schemes.
7.        The project implementation of the agricultural extension component through the T&V
systems achieved the planned target of benefiting 300,000 families or 1.5 million people. Thus the
project was able to cover 374,673 farmers or 1.87 million people (125%) over the project period. This
was resulted in the increment of extension agent on average of 144 DAs and 28 SMS against the
number of agents existed at the time of project appraisal. To this effect, the project gained momentum
to address the desired levels of farmers to DAs ratio (1 :1300) and decreased the number of farmers to
DAs down from 1:2500 - 4,000 to 1:750 at the project completion.
8.        The successful bund stabilization (2600 ha against the revised target of 1800 ha) has been
appreciated by farmers who realize the beneficial effect of legumes and grass plantation on bunds that
help improve soil fertility. Moreover, four conservation trials and five bund nurseries were established
to carry out biological methods of soil conservation practices.
9.        Under the various support provided by the project, considerable achievement was made to
improve nutritional condition and income of the Ethiopian people. About 578 vegetable gardens were
established against the target of 370 envisaged in SAR. The progress achievement of loan
disbursement for women micro-project highly satisfactory and fund amounting ETB 2,460.996 was
provided through AIDB to rural women.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20028R
ETHIOPIA
IFAD SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
)       Program Area
U    MOA Zone Offices
AIDB Otfices '-
a SARTOM                                         /ea S,,                                ,,      .                                        *        Head Ottice
11, HAXRTOUM4                                                                 N                                                                      > tBranch Offices
< Representative Offices
Agro-Ecological Zones of the Central
Highlands (Above 1500 Meters),
High Potential
____  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ I.J ~~~~~~~~Low Potential
'l_O-  Isohyets in Millimeters
-    All-Weather Roads
-      Dry-Weather Roads
5        _  i/Tr'_\.\Rivers
PresenttylIrrigated Areas
International Boundaries    A d e
.Ir xE / 4k\:\ 0~~~~~~~~~~~^8~DJIBOUTI !o r
12                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/' c'vw  --N.
L_ Gty f N D  :y3
_~~~~~~
A.NE 497









IMAGING
R.FpOrt No.          16744
Type:      iCR



