The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4446-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.9 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
February 4, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit - Ethiopian Birr (Br)
US$1.00 - Br 2.07
Br 1.00 = US$0.48
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government:  July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)             =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 mile (ml)
1 kilogram (kg)         =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m.ton)    =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 Sq. Kilometer (sq.km) =  100 ha = 0.39 sq. miles
1 hectare (ha)          =  2.47 acres
1 quintal (qu)          =  100 kilograms (kg)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMNS USED
AFDB    - African Development Bank
AIDB    - Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO   - Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC     - Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CBE     -  Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CFSCDD  -  Community Forest and Soil Conservation Development (MOA)
CPADD   -  Cooperative Promotion and Agricultural Development Department
ESC     -  Ethiopian Seed Corporation
IAR     -  Institute of Agricultural Research
IDD     -  Irrigation Development Department of MOA
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILCA    -  International Livestock Center for Africa
MOA     - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     - Ministry of Finance
NCCP    - National Committee for Central Planning
NWRC    -  National Water Resources Commission
PPD     -  Planning and Programming Department of MOA
WRDA    - Water Resources Development Authority
1( The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr has
been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Susmarn
Borrower:              Ethiopia
Amount:                IDA Credit SDR 5.9 million
(US$7.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Cofinancinus           IFAD Loan SDR 9.3 million (US$11.0 million
equivalent)
OPEC US$4.0 million equivalent
VFP US$1.0 million equivalent
Project Description:  The project would address the problems caused by
frequent drought and increasing desertification. The
project would consist of small-scale irrigation
schemes serving areas of up to 200 ha each, in drought
affected areas of Arsi, Bale, Northern Sidamo and
Hararghe regions, and conservation and agricultural
support in Hararghe region. The small-scale
irrigation subproject would include (a) strengthening
the Ministry of Agriculture's Irrigation Development
Department and irrigation departments in the project
regions; (b) strengthening of agricultural support
services; and (c) provision of funds for construction
or rehabilitation of irrigation schemes; and (d)
provision of credit to rural women for small
Income-generating projects. The conservation and
agricultural subproject would include
(a) strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's
Comunity Forest and Soil Conservation Development
Department; (b) providing agricultural support
services in the Hararghe highlands for establishing
conservation-based trials, bund stabilization, and
improvements in the extension system; and lc)
supporting a development program for rural women
focussing on the introduction of vegetable gardens and
nutrition education.
Benefits and Risks:   The main benefits in the project area would be
increased production of cereals, pulses, and
vegetables, as well as prevention of further soil
deterioration and improvement of productivity. The
main risk is a delay in implementation due to
inadequate institutional strength and experience
particularly during the early stages of the project.
The project Includes provisions for an expeditious
start, strong institution building and preparation of
annual work programs thereby minimizing these risks.
Although import parity pricing for cereals would
provide added incentives, the project is not
significantly affected by the present price level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
-US$ million !i
A.   Small-Scale Irrigation
1.   National Support                        0.7         2.1        2.8
2.   Zonal Support                           0.9         0.9         1.8
3.   Agricultural Support Service            1.0         1.0        2.0
4.   Scheme Construction                     5.9         3.3        9.2
Subtotal                                8.5        7.4        15.9
B.   Conservation and Agricultural Support
1.   National Conservation Support           0.2         1.0        1.2
2.   Conservation Based Agro Trials          0.8         0.3        1.1
3.   Bund Stabilization                      0.3         0.5        0.8
4.   Extension                               1.8         2.5        4.3
5.   Rural Women Support                     0.2         0.6        0.8
Subtotal                                3.4        4.8         8.2
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.5         0.6         1.1
Total Base Cost                                   12.4       12.8        25.2
Physical Contingencies                             1.0        0.7         1.6
Price Contingencies                               4.7         2.1         6.9
Total Costs                                       18.1       15.6        33.7
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
--- USS million -------
IFAD Loan                                    3.8         7.2       11.0
IFAD Loan 131-ET                             0.3         0.7        1.0
IDA                                          2.1         4.9        7.0
OPEC                                         1.2         2.8        4.0
WEP                                          1.0          -         1.0
Government                                   6.4          -         6.4
Beneficiaries                                3.3          -         3.3
18.1       15.6        33.7
11 Apparent inconsistencies due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit:
(US$ million)
__       87        88       89        90      91        92 933
Annual       0.1        0.9       1.2      1.0      1.3      1.0         1.5
Cumulative   0.1        1.0      2.2       3.2     4.5       5.5        7.0
Economic Rate of Return:
A.   Small-Scale Irrigation Subproject:  19 percent
B.   Extension Component:  minfimum 15 percent (indicative)
MAP: IBRD No. 20028



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A SNALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 5.9 million (US$7.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Small-Scale
Irrigation and Conservation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683s-ET), entitled
'Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects," was
circulated to the Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's
findings, and the conclusions of an economic mission that visited
Ethiopia in March and April 1985, are reflected in the following
paragraphs. Data have been updated on the basis of a follow-up mission
in June 1986.
Structural Characteristics
3.       The boundaries of Ethiopia embrace a wide diversity of cultures
and have contained a long history. Centuries of tradition have been
overtaken recently by fundamental social and political change. With a
population of about 43 million in 1985, Ethiopia is the thLrd most
populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and Egypt). It is alsc one of
the poorest and, in terms of social indicators, one of the least
developed. About 89 percent of the total population is rural. The
country's land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be
broadly divided into two main geographical zones--the highland plateau of
central Ethiopia and the surrounding lslands. Its capital city, Addis
Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population estimated at
1.5 million.
4.       Agriculture accounts for about 41 percenr of GDP, 90 percent of
exports, and 85 percent of total employment. Crops account for about
80 percent of the gross value of production and livestock for most of the
rest. The main food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal), maize,
barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits
and vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa;
the official export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years
but is still very low compared to the potential. Ethiopia's known
natural resources include gold, platinum, copper, soda ash, and potash.
Some petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum
reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation rmnAins to be established. There are prospects for the



- 2 -
exploitation of geothermal energy.  The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated
by individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less. Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale Industry.
Public sector control and ownership cover almost all large and medium-
scale manufacturing, banking and insurance, shipping, railway, airways,
utilities, and a large proportion of construction. Handicrafts and small
industry are operated by private owners. Domestic trade, especially
retail trade, and road transport are still largely in private hands.
5.       GNP per capita is estimated at around US$110 (1984), and an
estimated 60 percent of the population lives below the absolute poverty
level. Health services are limited and require major improvements to
combat high rates of morbidity and infant and maternal mortality,
worsened by the drought. Life expectancy is still only about 46 years.
Housing and sanitation facilities, especially in the towns, are poor and
need urgent attention. Despite Ethiopia's rich endowment of fertile land
and substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography
and extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation, and economic development in general. Nearly three-
quarters of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-
weather roada.
The Drouzht
6.       The drought and famine in 1984/85 caused human suffering on an
unprecedented scale--nearly 8 million people. In response to the
Government's appeals for assistance and its efforts in dealing with the
crisis, UN agencies, bilateral donors, multilateral agencies and non-
government organizations have provided a record US$470 million in relief
assistance, more than in previous years (para. 8). The Government's
hopes for some respite from the drought situation have been raised by
improved rainfall in 1985/86, but actual food production proved well
below expectations. It is too early to say whether the increased
interest of donors in Ethiopia due to the drought will be successful in
generating significantly increased concessionary aid for long-term
development. The drought relief effort, as well as the Government's
programs to rehabilitate drought-prone areas and to resettle drought
victims in the western provinces, has severely strained the Government
administration and temporarily directed manpower and financial resources
away from other development activities.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
7.       Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to more than 40 percent in 1981, and the primary
school enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the
same period. These achievements, however, have not been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1983184, GDP grew
at an average annual rate of only 2.5 percent in real terms, compared to
an estimated population growth rate of 2.9 percent.



- 3 -
8.       The economy witnessed a setback during the three years from
1980/81 to 1982/83, with GDP growth declining to an average rate of
around 3.1 percent per annump compared with the highs of around 5.5
percent per year during 1978179 and 1979/80. This adverse trend became
more pronounced during the past two years owing to the recent drought.
GD? declined by 2.4 percent in 1983/84 and by 6.8 percent in 1984185.
The principal causes for the setback in economic growth in recent years
were droughts and inappropriate policies (para. 14) that affected agri-
culture, and capacity constraints (notably in industry), owing to low
rates of investment in the past. The ratio of total investment to GDP
has remained for many years at around 11 percent, due largely to
constraints on domestic as well as external resources. Domestic savings
have averaged around 3.4 percent of GDP during the four years ending
1983184, partly reflecting the basic consumer needs of a low-income
country and the higl. expenditure on defense and security. Domestic
savings turned negative in 1984185 with total consumption exceeding
output. Apart from the recent increase in emergency aid arising from the
drought disaster, official development assistance averaged only around
US$9 per capita per year as compared to over US$20 per capita for
developing countries in Africa.
9.       The external current account deficit has continued to widen; it
reached US$416 million in 1983184, equivalent to 8.6 percent of GDP. The
situation further deteriorated in 1984185 with depressed exports and
increased imports; the current account deficit reached the equivalent of
about 13 percent of GDP--the highest in the past decade. Meanwhile, net
external reserves turned negative during 1984185, owing to heavy draw-
downs, but ended with a positive balance in June 1985. The external debt
service ratio increased significantly to about 22 percent.
10.       Notwithstanding these recent adverse trends, the Government's
fiscal and monetary management has been generally prudent. The country
has a relatively competent public service and, in general, its
ministries, departments, and most public enterprises are reasonably well
managed. The overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for
the period 1978/79 to 1981/82, and modest current account surpluses were
achieved in these years. But since then the fiscal deficit has followed
an uneven path. During 1982/83, the overall budget deficit rose to a
level equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, principally due to a near
doubling of capital expenditure and an increase in current expenditure,
reflecting in large part a Government decision to settle arrears due to
parastatals in one year. The overall deficit was brought back to a level
equivalent to 6.2 percent of GDP in 1983184. Despite heavy drought-
related expenditures in 1984185, the Government controlled the fiscal
deficit to the equivalent of about 7.7 percent of GDP, imposing cutbacks
on current expenditure and special drought levies.
11.       The inflation rate (as measured by the Addis Ababa retail price
index) had dropped from an average of 13 percent during 1978/79 and
1979180 to about 5 percent during the five-year period ending 1983184.
But during 1984/85 it rose to an annualized rate of about 16 percent,
largely reflecting food price increases caused by food shortages, which
became more pronounced after July 1984, owing to the drought.



- 4 -
12.      Despite the growing internal and external distortions noted
above, there has been little or no change in Ethiopia's economic policy
fraework.  Official pronouncements have stressed from time to timo the
need to: revitalize agriculture through increased investment, guaranteed
producer prices, and diffusion of Improved technology to farmers; restore
confidence among entrepreneurs engaged In smll-scale industry; and,
attract foreign investment and technology to develop the country's
resources. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code
introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign
investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the
formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of direct
and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic. But
actual progress in these directions has been very slow.
13.      There are a number of issues that require urgent attention.
It is yet unclear whether the projected levels of investment can be
financed, given the low domestic savings rate, the claims of the drought
and other priorities for recurrent expenditures, and the limited inflow
of official development assistance (para. 8). While overall budgetary
deficits reflect prudent financial management from an economic growth
perspective, they also indicate the need to strengthen efforts in
attracting more external concessionary assistance for investment.
Likewise, with the value of merchandise imports running at double the
value of merchandise exports, a major expansion in exports and/or import
substitution and restraints on imports are called for, in order to reach
a more sustainable external current account deficit. Higher coffee
prices in the short term anC projected lower oil prices in the medium
term have improved the prospects in this regard, but Ethiopia's real
effective exchange rate has appreciated by more than 40 percent against
the trade-weighted basket of currencies during the five years ending
January 1986. The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of an effective
package of export incentives have tended to reduce margins for producers
of export commodities in local currency and have inhibited the growth of
exports.
14.      As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have Impeded agricultural growth. Some initiatives
have been made toward improving the Government's agricultural and
marketing policies, and a serious dialogue with the Bank is in process.
Other constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear--the business climate does not appear
to be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry.
Although there has been a remarkable increase in literacy and general
education, economic growth in all sectors is constrained by a shortage of
managerial, technical and professional skills, indicating the need for
stepping up higher education.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.      The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infra-
structure (notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy
dependence on one export comuodity (coffee) subject to international



- 5 -
export quotas, a small industrial base, and shortages of skilled
manpower. Apart from this met of unfavorable initial conditions, the
availability of domestic resources for investment is constrained by the
Governrmnt's outlays on internal security, while import capacity is
constrained by stagnating exports and by low levels of external resource
transfers. The drought has caused a major setback to the economy.
16.      Ethiopia's rapid population growth also poses severe problems
for the future. Population growth, currently estimated at around 2.9
percent per annum, implies a doubling of Ethiopia's population in 26
years or less and threatens to absorb most of the gains in economic
growth and social welfare foreseeable in the next decade. The demand for
food, energy, and social services would increase dramatically and would
lead to adverse consequences in the ecological balance. The net impact
could be stagnation or possibly a decline in the living standards of the
Ethiopian people. Unless steps are taken to reduce fertility through an
expansion of family planning services, there will be little significant
improvement in per capita income or living standards. Ethiopia needs a
multisectoral population policy; this implies an expansion and
strengthening of basic maternal and child health services, into which
family planning must be integrated.
17.      Three areas of policy reform warrant Fmmediate attention:
improving agricultural pricing and marketing policies, adjusting the
exchange rate to reduce external imbalance, and financing the fiscal
deficit through non-inflationary sources insofar as possible. Ethiopia
needs to orient economic policy toward expanding the directly productive
sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, and to increase economic
efficiency in the use of resources. The incentive structure in the
agricultural sector needs to be Improved in order to step up agricultural
growth, and the business climate for private small-scale enterprises,
particularly in industry, should be made more favorable for increased
investment, output, and exports. In generalt the authorities have to
make greater and more flexible use of macro-level policy instruments
(e.g., exchange rate and price policies) and less use of direct,
administrative controls. The attainment of higher growth rates would
also depend on raising the operational efficiency of public enterprises
and on alleviating skilled manpower shortages through better incentives
and greater emphasis on higher and technical education. There is also
a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic framework for the
Government's proposed three-year plan (beginning mid-1986) within the
framework of the Ten Year Perspective Plan and to present a well-balanced
portfolio of viable projects. The financing of increased public
investment would call for greater efforts in domestic as well as external
resource mobilization. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policymakers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of about 3 percent per annum over
the medium term, provided the Government makes a concerted effort to
increase savings and investment and to pursue policies that foster
accelerated growth.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.      Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 has totaled about
US$962 million (less cancellations) as of September 30, 1986, consisting
of 39 IDA credits totaling about US$853 million, 12 Bank loans totaling
about US$109 million, and 5 IFC commitments totaling US$15.7 million.
Much of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years
1974 and 1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year
interruption in new lending. Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms
only. IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
December 31, 1984 is estimated at about 3 percent, and IDA's at 27
percent. Their shares of total debt service in FY1985 are estimated at 9
percent and 6 percent, respectively. Bank lending focused on the
construction of trunk roads, power, and telecommunications facilities
until the late 1960s, when Bank lending gradually shifted to agriculture
and education. Since 1973, 12 credits totaling US$238 million have
supported agriculture, and some have attracted cofinancing or other
complementary assistance. Credit 1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together
with cofinancing from Sweden and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development, assisted the agricultural minimum package program, a major
part of the Government's efforts to assist peasant agriculture.  The
proposed project would be the second in FY1987; a forestry project was
approved July 3, 1986.
19.      Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally quite satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region.
Financial problems, rising labor costs, and occasional shortages of
construction materials have detracted from efficient project implemen-
tation on occasion. However, the Government and the project management
units generally have been successful in resolving these problems.
Efforts to recover from the drought and to implement the resettlement and
villagization programs have recently placed a particularly heavy burden
on the administration. Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects
assisted by the Bank Group has also been generally satisfactory. The
ratio of disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia for 1985 was 22
percent, about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for
the Eastern Africa Region.
Assistance Strategy
20.      We are assisting the Government to:
(a)    improve its policy frraework with a view to increasing
agricultural production and exports through economic and
sector studies, advice on agricultural pricing and
marketing policies, and assistance in implementing its
Drought Action Plan;
(b)    Improve the policy framework and institutional structure
for domestic and external resource mobilization and
allocation through advice on tax reforms, as well as
better planning and monitoring of foreign aid;



- 7 -
(c)    improve the policy framework and institutional structure
for public and private sector efficiency, through advice
on price policy reforms and a clearer role for the
existing private sectorj and
(d)    accelerate human resource development through advice
on population policy, education, and skilled manpower
development.
In our economic work, we are focusing on resource mobilization issues,
public investment reviews, export incentive issues, and human resource
development. We have been carrying out studies of the agricultural
sector, including a joint study vith the Government on farmers'
incentives and marketing efficiency, and also studies of the industry,
education, and population, health and nutrition sectors. In our lending
work, we plan to continue emphasizing the productive sectors and
essential infrastructure to help address the country's capacity
constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A peasant agricultural
development project is being considered to help increase the productivity
and incomes of small farmers. We are making concerted efforts to arrange
coficancing for proposed projects. Informal discussions are underway,
but no decision has been taken concerning a possible donor conference on
Ethiopia, either a UNDP Round Table or a resumption of the Consultative
Group.
PART III   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
21.      With a per capita GNP of about US$110, Ethiopia is probably the
world's poorest country. Absolute poverty characterizes life for the
majority of Ethiopia's predominantly rural population. Agriculture is
paramount, and its satisfactory growth is critical, not only for
Improving and stabilizing food supply, but also for accelerating export
and industrial growth. The role of agriculture in Ethiopia's economy has
remained largely unchanged for the past two decades of otherwise dramatic
social, political and economic transformation. It has accounted for
roughly half of GDP, around 85 percent employment and virtually all
exports. While GDP growth averaged about 2.3 percent annually during the
last decade, agriculture grew by a little over 1 percent annually,
significantly less that the annual population increase of nearly 3
percent. Agriculture's share of GDP has shown a downward trend from
around 49 percent in 1976177 to 41 percent in 1984/85. Preliminary
indicators point to some recovery in 1985186 both in economic and
agricultural growth and, with good rains throughout the 1986 growing
period, this trend Is expected to continue into 1986/87.
22.      The environment for agriculture is highly diverse. Crop
production and livestock populations, are concentrated in the highlands
where systems -f traditional livestock and crop farming are conducted.
Crop and livestock activities are somewhat inter-related rather than
integrated. The production possibilities for agriculture in the
highlands range from good to poor. Stabilizing and gradually restoring
the potential in these areas would be a long-ternm process. Only a small
part of the highlands are densely settled and farmed. Moreover, about
one-third of the highlands have slopes exceeding 30 percent and are not



- 8 -
suitable for cropping. The highlands do not have reliable rainfall1
drought is cfmon, and soil degradation is severe. In this situation the
Government Is givlng high priority to investments aimed at reducing soil
degradation and of increasing productivity.
Ths Irrigat ion Subs ecto r
23.      Development of modern irrigation systems has been a relatively
recent phenomenon in Ethiopia. Past Irrigation development concentrated
on large-scale scheme in the Awash Valley, the Rift Valley and the lower
Wabe Shebolle Valley to irrigate sugarcane, cotton and some cereals.
Reliable statistics on the extent of small-scale irrigation schemes are
unavailable. Recent sources indicate a total area of 5,000-10,000 ha.
More recently, small-scale irrigation development has been increasing in
areas such as North Bale, primarily through the initiative of farmers'
groups, Peasant Associations (PAs) and Producer Cooperatives (PC.). Most
schemes are based on seasonal diversion structures and a system of earth
channels distributing water to field outlets. Distribution and other
structures are rarely seen and field irrigation is usually based on a
system of uncontrolled flooding.
24.      In 1981 the Government established the National Water Resources
Commission (NWRC) 'to give central guidance in, and to ensure, the
(ptimum utilization of the nation's inland water resources.'  Under NWRC
four new authorities were formed, of which the Water Resources
Development Authority (WRDA) and the Ethiopian Water Works Construction
Authority (EWWCA) are concerned with irrigation development. A standing
agreement between WRDA and Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) provides a
framework for the allocation of responsibilities for the development of
irrigation as follows: (a) small schemes involving less than 200 ha are
the responsibility of the Irrigation Development Department (IDD) in MOA;
(b) schemes of between 200 ha and 3,000 ha are planned and designed in
cooperation with the MOA. Execution of the irrigation infrastructure is
undertaken by EWWCA whilst the IDD is responuible for land development;
and (c) schemes of over 3,000 ha are the responsibility of WRDA. Small-
scale irrigation development (less than 200 ha) was previously carried
out by the surface water division of the Soil and Water Conservation
Department (SWCD) of MOA. In 1984 the Division was separated from SWCD
and upgraded to the Irrigation Development Department (IDD). The
Department is still in its early development phase and relies on
technical assistance from various sources. At present IDD is concerned
with the construction of schemes commanding approximately 4,270 ha.
25.      The Ten-Year (1984-93) Perspective Plan, issued in January
1983,included plans for a sizable expansion of large-scale irrigation.
The recent drought required some changes of the Government plans.
Presently, the Government is pursuing a program of expanding all thiee
types of irrigation: large-scale schemes for cash crop production and
small- and medium-scale schemes for food production by farmers and
cooperatives.



26.      Constraints and Potential.  Although MOA has almost ten years of
experience with small-scale irrigation, there is a lack of experienced
irrigation staff in the zones; furthermore, general shortage of transport
considerably hinders the ability of field staff to visit schemes. This
constraint is greatly exacerbated by the mountainous nature of most of
the country and the scarcity of road access to many of the areas. The
other constraints area (a) shortage of materials; (b) lack of technical
and physical resources to proceed with land development; and (c) lack of
knowledge of irrigated agriculture due to inadequate research findings
and extension services, etc. The practice of cost recovery from
beneficiaries is not applied where grant funds are available. In
addition, credit for small irrigation works provided under the IFAD
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 131-ET), through the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), has not been utilized. While
these constraints are substantial, the potential for development of
small-scale irrigation is attractive. It is estimated, based on the
limited data, that 130,000 ha of low cost, gravity-fed irrigation (20
percent perennial; 80 percent seasonal) could be developed without
storage. With storage, the potential could be raised to over 220,000 ha.
About 30,000 ha of this total are thought to exist in the low rainfall,
drought affected areas.
The Soil and Water Conservation Subsector
27.       As a result of serious deforestation and poor conservation
practices, about 15 million ha of the highlands are In a seriously eroded
condition, and a further 13 million ha are showing moderately accelerated
erosion. The balance of 26 million ha includes some 15 million ha of land
with erosion-susceptible soils which could become the problem area of the
future if not properly managed. Of the originally forested area, Gamo Gofa
has 30 percent left, but in the rest of the highlands only 2 percent to 4
percent remains. A combination of deforestation and soil loss has led to an
increase in the frequency and severity of floods and a decrease in dry
season river flows.
28.       Little attention had been given to the problems of degradation
prior to the 1973174 drought. Today, the Government is actively pursuing
developmsant strategies to slow the process and begin repairing the
damage.Two major activities in the area of soil and water conservation are:
the World Food Program, Food For Work (FFW) Program officially referred to
as 'Rehabilitation of Forest, Grazing and Agricultural Land' and the World
Bank-sponsored and FAO-executed Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation Study. The
first has been in operation in one form or another for ten years but it was
only in 1982 that the current, considerably expanded program was initiated.
The primary objective of this program is to make food available where it is
badly needed; to achieve soil conservation is a secondary aim. The positive
effects are:  (i) achieving a considerable amount of terracing and bunding;
(ii) creating a national aware--ess of soil conservation; and (iii) laying a
foundation for biological soil -conservation. The negative effects are: (i)
the program is restricted to food-deficit areas, so the high production,
food surplus areas are left out' (ii) as the program depends on external
funding, it must be -seen as temporary end thus cannot become a sustainable
activity of Government; (iii) there is li:tle farmer involvement or



- 10 -
motivation which results in problems of maintenance; and (iv) to achieve the
target, it is necessary to use oversimplified designs and specifications
without sufficient evaluation of the problems and solutions in each area.
The Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation Study was concerned with assessment of
the erosion problem, consideration of conservation methods, and development
of a strategy for a conservation program. A complementary activity also
undertaken by FAO has been the provision of technical assistance to the
previous Department of Soil and Water Conservation, now the Department of
Community Forests and Soil Conservation Development. The main input has
been a large training program. It is anticipated that a third phase will be
completed shortly. Other externally supported conservation activities are:
the Soil Conservation Research Project supported and staffed by the
University of Bern, Switzerland, in operation since 1980, and the applied
research programs of the International Livestock Center for Africa.
29.       Constraints and Potential.  The combination of present population
growth, limited good agricultural land and mountainous terrain, will result
in increasing degradation, even with a greatly expanded program of physical
measures, unless the farmers are taught the importance of soil and water
conservation to the productivity of their owbn farms and they respond by
taking measures to counteract erosion and build up soil productivity. The
dissemination of available information is a major problem. At present
farmers receive practically no advice except in terms of physical
construction measures. The extension service has few specialists trained in
conservation practices. The project activities proposed for the Hararghe
region would bridge the gap through conservation-based trials,
demonstrations and strengthening of the extension service.
Institutional Setting
30.           HOA in 1984 was decentralized to form eight zones encompassing
from one to three provinces. At headquarters, departments are grouped into
four main departments each headed by a Vice-Minister. These four main
departments are: Rural Infrastructure Development, Cooperative Promotion and
Agricultural Development, Animal and Fishery Resources Development, and
Natural Resources Conservation Development. Each zonal office of MOA is
headed by a General Manager, supported by four technical departments
corresponding to those at headquarters.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agriculture Sector
31.       The Bank has considerable experience in lnnding for agricultural
development in Ethiopia. Two minimum package projects (Cr. 416-ET and Cr.
1088-ET) were aimed at increasing agricultural production in the highlands.
Coffee projects (Cr. 290-ET and Cr. 1429-ET) supported processing to
increase value added to the traditionally sundried crop. The Agriculture
Marketing Corporation's storage and marketing activities were strengthened
under Cr. 789-ET. Other projects were for Drought Rehabilitation and Land
Settlement (Cr. 485-ET), Irrigation (Cr. 1337-Et), Agricultural Research
(Cr. 1521-ET), and Drought Recovery (Cr. 1576-ET). An IFAD project,
supervised by IDA, (Loan 131-ET) is strengthening the operational capacity
of AIDB and channeling funds for on-farm development through cooperatives.



- 11 -
While physical implementation of agricultural projects has been generally
satisfactory, these projects have in some cases fallen short of their
overall objectives due to inadequate incentive policies. In recent months,
the Government has recognized the need to increase economic benefits by
adjusting its policy framework and is discussing the introduction of
measures to reduce grain marketing barriers and increase producer prices.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was appraised in MaylJune 1986, and the IFAD
Staff Appraisal Report No.6393-ET dated January 14, 1987, is being
circulated separately. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Annex III. Negotiations were held from November 25 to December 1, 1986, in
Rome.
Objectives and Rationale for Support from IDA
33.       The proposed project would address the problems caused by severe
and recurring drought and increasing desertification. The project is based
on proposals by a mission which visited Ethiopia in. November/December 1985.
The main objective of the small-scale irrigation subproject is the
improvement of food production in those areas particularly susceptible to
drought. Conservation based agricultural development (a term used to
describe a broader approach in which biological soil conservation is
combined with structural soil conservation) would be introduced in the
highlands of the Hararghe region, one of the most severely eroded regions in
the country.   Since conservation based farming systems would involve large
numbers of farmers, the extension service would be strengthened through the
introduction of a modified training and visit system. The project would
also help to improve protein intake and nutrition in the family through the
introduction of family vegetable gardens.
Project Area
34.       The project area comprises the highland districts of Arsi, Bale,
Sidamo and Hararghe regions. Of the small-scale irrigation subproject,
rehabilitation of existing schemes would cover the whole projec. area, while
construction of new schemes would be implemented in Northera& Sidamo,
Northern Hararghe, Western Arsi and Northwestern Bale. The Conservation and
Agricultural Support subproject, including extension, would be confined to
the Hararghe region In the first phase and depending on achievements, other
areas would be covered in future.
Project Description
Small-Scale Irritation Subproject
35.       National Level.  To support the development of a national
irrigation program, the Project Studies and Preparation Division of the
Irrigation Development Department (IDD) of MOA would be strengthened to
undertake the preparation of: (a) a cohesive national strategy and policy
framework for small-scale irrigation; (b) guidelines for scheme selection,
planning, implementation, supervision and monitoring; and (c) manuals and
designs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) by August 31,
1987, the Division would be adequately strengthened to undertake the above



- 12 -
tasks; (b) qualified counterpart staff would be employed for all
consultants;(c) incremental staff would be recruited well in advance of the
relevant activities; and (d) staff receiving overseas training would be
required to serve not less than two years on project activities. An
Irrigation Support Unit would also be established at AIDB headquarters,
dedicated to the loan administration of small-scale irrigation schemes
executed through AIDB credit. Office equipment, vehicles and training would
be provided for the unit.
36.       Zonal Level.  The project would provide support for the
strengthening of IDD zonal offices in Asela and Harrar by establishing
units to plan, design, support and supervise rehabilitation and construction
of small irrigation schemes and the construction of office buildings,
procurement of construction equipment, vehicles, office equipment,
furniture, books and technical manuals, training for staff, skilled
laborers, and technical assistance. An assurance was obtained that by
December 31, 1987, the support units would be established.
37.       Agricultural Support Services.  The project would provide support
to MOA's Cooperative Promotion and Agricultural Development Department zonal
offices in Asela and Harrar for training, equipment, vehicles and the
establishment of demonstration plots and technical assistance.
38.       Scheme Construction.  Funding for the rehabilitation and
construction of small irrigation schemes would be made available through MOA
financing and AIDB credit (para 48). Financing would be provided for
construction materials, construction equipment operation, skilled labor and
construction supervision, while unskilled labor would be provided by the
beneficiaries. New schemes to command about 1,650 ha and rehabilitated
schemes to command about 2,750 ha would be developed. Technical and
economic criteria agreed at negotiations, would be used as a basis for
selecting beneficiaries. Construction of access roads would be carried out
by unskilled labor financed by the World Food Program through the Food-for-
Work Program.
Conservation and Agtricultural Support
39.       National Conservation Support Unit.  The programming and planning
capacity of MOA's Community Forest and Soil Conservation Development
Department would be strengthened through the provision of technical
assistance for the collection and evaluation of information concerning
conservation techniques and conservation-based agricultural systems on the
basis of which a cohesive national strategy would be developed.
40.       Conservation-based Agronomic Trials.  The component would provide
for the establishment of about six sites of about 15-20 ha each, about 30
on-farn plots of about 5 ha each, and about 100 farmer demonstration plots
on sloping terrain, representative of the highland crop areas in Hararghe
for conservation-based trials. Financing would be provided for the
construction of store-cum-office buildings,the acquisition of tools and
meteorological equipment and incremental local salaries.



- 13 -
41.       Agricultural Extension.  The extension system would be closely
linked to the trials program through the involvement of the development
agents in the supervision of on-farm trials and farmer demonstration plots.
Support for the extension service would include incremental staff salaries,
bicycles/mules, motorcycles, vehicles, furniture, field tools, equipment,
staff and farmer training, and technical assistance.
42.       Bund Stabilization.  To strengthen the capacity of HOA's Animal
Husbandry and Feed Development Department to establish suitable vegetation
on bunds, three nurseries would be developed and financing provided for
technical assistance, incremental staff, vehicles, tools and equipment.
43.       Rural Women's Development Support.  This component would be
implemented in Hararghe on a pilot basis, kept flexible and monitored
closely through annual work programs. It comprises two main elements:
family vegetable gardens in villages and a women's rural development credit
line. About 370 vegetable gardens measuring on average 200 m2 would be
supported through provision of an inputs package. About US$300,000
equivalent would be made available to rural women through AIDS to finance
small income-generating projects. Also, MOA's Rural Women's Team would be
strengthened through provision of vehicles and technical assistance.
44.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Support for monitoring, evaluation and
surveys by MOA and AIDB would be provided, including office equipment,
vehicles, incremental operating costs, training and technical assistance.
Project Implementation
45.       The Irrigation Development Department under the Vice Minister for
Rural Infrastructure Development would be responsible for the national
support component of the Small-scale Irrigation Subproject and the zonal
managers at Asela and Harrar for zonal support and scheme construction.
AIDB would be responsible for financing the scheme construction component
where credit would be utilized. The Community Forest and Soil Conservation
Development Department under the Vice-Minister for Natural Resources and
Conservation would be responsible for the national conservation support unit
component.
46.       Central Coordinating Committee.  Not later than August 31, 1987,
the Government would establish a Central Project Coordinating Committee to
ensure smooth coordination among the various departments. The Committee
would be responsible for coordination among the implementing departments and
AIDB. The Committee would be serviced by the Technlical Support Unit of the
Planning and Programming Department (PPD) of MOA and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the head of the Unit would be appointed to act
as project coordinator. The Project Coordinator would be responsible for
(a) operating the special accounts, (b) coordinating disbursement and
withdrawal applications, and (c) coordinating procuremenc as far as possible
and assist the various project agencies. At zonal level, the MOA zonal
general managers would be responsible for coordinating the work of
participating MOA departments and for ensuring effective implementation at
field level. They would be responsible for (i) the review and adjustment of
annual work programs and budgets; (ii) the coordination of procurement and
recruitment of consultants; and (iii) the review of progress reports and
cnsuring agreement on joint action that may be needed.



- 14 -
Small-scale Irrigation Subproject
47.       To guarantee maximm commitment and participation of the farmers
in the development and maintenance of the schemes, the project would adopt
the principle of farmer initiative as the basis of development.
Responsibility for identifying and selecting irrigation schemes to be
financed under the project would rest with MQA's Irrigation Development
Department. Decisions would be made in consultation vith MOA field staff,
proposed irrigation beneficiaries, and AIDB represent.tives where credit
funds would be utilized. All construction work would be supervised by MOA
staff. To expedite construction, it would be desirable to have funds
available at the zonal level for Immediate procurement needs. Therefore,
imprest accounts would be established in the zonal headquarters with initial
deposits of about US$ 100,000 equivalent by MOA from a Special Account to be
established.
48.       Financint Scheme Development.  So far, virtually all small-scale
irrigation construction has been funded by MOA. Credit, although available
(para. 26), has not been utilized, mairly because IDD has lacked resources
to provide the technical support needed by AIDB. By strengthening IDD and
establishing the AIDB Irrigation Support Unit (paras. 35 and 36) this
project is designed to overcome past constraints. Funds from IFAD Loan
131-ET would be used to explore the role of credit in financing small-scale
irrigation, in areas agreed between IDD and AIDB, where construction would
only be financed by AIDB. Expansion of the role of credit would depend on
the success of the operation and would be the subject of special focus
during the mid-term review. Since close IDDIAIDB collaboration would be
crucial to the success of irrigation lending, AIDB would conclude a
Cooperation Agreement with IDD for implementing the credit component. IDD
would be responsible for the technical aspects while AIDB would be
responsible for overall appraisal of schemes, for the financial aspects and
for bearing the credit risk. The Cooperation Agreement would also specify
the areas where AIDB would target its funds. Completion of a Cooperation
Agreement satisfactory to IFAD would be a condition of disbursement of the
credit component. Should the credit mechanism prove a bottleneck to rapid
implementation of these small schemes, the Government would complete the
construction program through MOA.
Conservation and Agricultural Support Subproiect
49.       Conservation-based Agronomic Trials.  The proposed conservation-
based agronomic trials would be implemented within the framework of the
existing National Field Trials Program being carried out by the Agricultural
Development Department of MOA. Technical service units from each MOA
department involved and Alemaya Agricultural University would collaborate to
plan, coordinate, supervise and evaluate the operation of the trials.
Promising results would be subjected to on-fanm testing and would then be
widely demonstrated by extension staff.
50.       Agricultural Extension.  The extension service would be
reorganized to provide more systematic and regular extension visits by
better trained and equipped staff. Concepts of the successful Training and
Visit System would be adapted to Ethiopian conditions. Assurances were
obtained during =gotiations that such as system would be introduced. A



- 15 -
total of 22 of the medium to higher potential subdistricts of the Hararghe
agricultural zone with all weather road access would be covered during the
six-year project period. The Hararghe zonal management would organize
relevant training programs for zonal and district technical staff in which
Alemaya University would be expected to participate.
51.       Rural Women Development Support.  The head of MOA's Rural Women's
Team in Hararghe would be responsible for implementing the component.
Suitable areas for irrigated vegetable gardens would be selected and
assistance provided in introducing appropriate cultivation techniques and in
teaching women how to improve family nutrition with the vegetables. The
Rural Women's Team would also identify small income-producing projects
suitable for submission to AIDB for financing.
Annual Work Progran
52.       Annual work programs would be prepared by MOA and AIDB, which
would include: (i) a review of project implementation in the current year;
(ii) detailed description of the work to be carried out in the forthcoming
year; (iii) requirements for additional staff, equipment and inputs; and
(iv) a budget and a financing plan. Preparation of the first annual work
program for review by IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. In
subsequent years draft plans would be submitted to IDA for review and the
final work Program would reflect the comments received.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
53.       The total estimated project cost, including physical and price
contingencies, taxes, and duties is at USS 33.7 million equivalent of which
the foreign exchange cost is US$ 15.6 million equivalent, or about 46
percent of total project costs. Costs have been estimated at prices
prevailing in June 1986, and adjusted to allow for the price escalation of
imported andlor locally produced items expected in November 1986. Physical
contingencies of about 6 percent of the base costs have been provided.
Price contingencies have been provided for local costs on the basis of
projected annual increases of 9 percent from 1987 to 1988 and 10 percent
from 1989 to 1995 and for foreign costs at the following annual rates of 6.8
percent, 6.8 percent, 7.0 percent, 7.1 percent for FY87 through FY90 and 4.0
percent from FY91 through FY95.
54.       The proposed credit of US$7.0 million equivalent would finance
US$4.9 million equivalent of the foreign exchange costs and about US$2.1
million equivalent of local costs, or about 21 percent of the total costs.
The Government would provide US$6.4 million equivalent, including duties and
taxes. IFAD would finance US$7.2 million equivalent of the foreign exchange
costs and about US$3.8 million equivalent of local costs. OPEC would
finance US$2.8 million equivalent of foreign exchange costs and about US$1.2
million equivalent of local costs.   The project would be parallel financed
by IFAD (IFAD, Loan 131-ET and World Food Program) and IDA. The proceeds of
the proposed credit and the proceeds of the OPEC loan would be disbursed on
a joint basis by IDA. The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement and OPEC Loan Agreement, and to the
release of the WFP Grant would be conditions of effectiveness.



- 16 -
55.       The Government with proceeds of IhAD funds would pass on to AIDB
US$600,000 as a grant for institutional support and would onlend US$0.3
million equivalent for productive micro-projects (para. 43) under the rural
women's development component. In addition, US$1.0 million of IFAD Loan
131-ET would be used by AIDB to finance project irrigation development.
Further funding for that purpose, from the new IFAD loan, may be channeled
through AIDB. Since project appraisal in June 1986, the Government has
lowered interest rates for agricultural lending, but the change has not been
applied to lending supported by IFAD Loan 131-ET. The onlending terms and
conditions for the new loan would form part of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be concluded between the Government and AIDE. The completion of this
Agreement satisfactory to IFAD, would be a condition of disbursement of the
credit component. It would also be a disbursement condition of that
component that US$1.0 million of the Loan 131-ET had been fully committed
for small-scale irrigation lending. To monitor the appropriateness of the
interest rate to be applied to AIDB loans, it was agreed during negotiations
that AIDB would review the rates with IFAD during the mid-term project
review and that the Government would take necessary measures to ensure that
the interest rates are appropriate.
Reportinz. Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       The Planning and Progrnmming Department of HOA and AIDB would
prepare quarterly progress reports on physical and financial progress, such
as procurement, construction, staff employment and training and expenditure
in a format acceptable to IDA which would reach IDA not later than two
months after the end of the reporting period. The first report would be due
four months after loan signing. Within six months of completion of the
project, MOA would prepare a Project Completion Report acceptable to
lFADIIDA.
Procurement and Disbursement 1
57.       Procurement methods by major project elements are summarized in
Annex IV. All procurement of the components to be jointly financed by IDA
and OPEC shall be in zccordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement of heavy
construction equipment amounting to about US$850,000 and of two
prefabricated houses amounting to about US$80,000 would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB). Vehicles, spare parts,
motorcycles, office equipment and materials would be grouped into contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more and would also be procured by ICB. Local
competitive bidding would be used for contracts for goods estimated to cost
between US$20,000 and US$100,000. Under ICB procedures qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of
the CIF price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
1/
The basic framework for all procurement, uncer the components to be
financed by IFAD, shall be in accordance with IhAD procurement guidelines
with the exception that the developing member states and those member
states of the Fund, as shall have deposited instruments of contribution to
the special resources for Sub-Saharan Africa prior to the date the contract
is put up for tender, shall be eligible territories for procurement
purposes.



- 17 -
taxes whichever is lover. Some equipment or tools may need to be procured
directly from manufacturers after obtaining quotations from at least three
qualified manufacturers. Small off-the-shelf itema costing less than
US$20,000 each and needed urgently for project execution would be purchased
by "prudent shopping" with at least three price quotations. The total value
of items purchased this way should not exceed USS 0.5 million without prior
IDA agreement. Contracts for civil works would not be suitable for ICB
because the work would be done in dispersed locations and would be too small
to attract international interest. These contracts would, therefore, be
awarded following local competitive bidding (LCB). The LCB procedures and
the 'Instruction to Bidders' document were reviewed during appraisal and
found to be adequate. Irrigation works construction would be carried out by
IDD through force account, or where possible, by sma 11 contractors whose
contracts would be awarded following local competitive bidding or, in the
case of very small contracts, according to negotiated contracts with grouzps
of skilled workers. Consultant services would be procured according to IDA
guidelines. Internationally recruited technical assistance staff would,
wherever practical, be grouped into teams and procured through consulting
firms acceptable to the Government and IDA. Overseas training would be
subject to IDA approval. For all civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000
and for purchases of equipment and supplies exceeding US$100,000, proposals
for advertising, draft tender documents, bid evaluation and award proposals
would be sent to IDA for review before contract award.
58.       Disbursements under joint IDA/OPEC lending would be in the ratio
of 65 percent IDA to 35 percent OPEC. Under this arrangement, disbursements
under the IDA credit would be mde against 50 percent of expenditure for
civil works, 65 percent of fcreign expenditure for vehicles,
equipment,furniture, and materials if directly imported, 65 percent of ex-
factory price, if manufactured locally and 40 percent of other locally
procured items; 65 percent of technical assistance, training, and gradually
falling percentages (starting at 75 and ending at 35 percent) of operating
costs. To reduce the number of applications to be sent to IDA and the
payments to be made by all cofinanciers, two foreign exchange special
ac_ounts totalling US$1.5 million (corresponding to about four months of
expenditure) would be established and maintained with a commercial bank
authorized to deal in foreign currencies or with the Central Bank. One of
these accounts would be funded by IAD, the other by IDA. Disbursements
would be fully documented except for disbursements against small contracts,
purchase orders and operating costs of less than US$80,000 equivalent where
certified statements of expenditure would be used. The credit would be
disbursed over a period of six years ending December 31, 1993. Even though
standard disbursement profiles for IDA-financed agricultural projects in
Ethiopia show an average disbursement period of ten years, more rapid
disbursement is expected under this project due to plans for procuring
equipment and beginning construction at an early date.
Accounts and Audit
59.       All the concerned national agencies of MOA, the two MQA zonal
general managers and AIDE would maintain separate records of project
accounts. Each institution would have the project accounts including
statements of expenditure as well as the Special Account audited by an



- 18 -
independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. The audited accounts would be sent
to IDA within six months after the end of the Ethiopian fiscal year and not
later than December 31 of each calendar year.
Mid-Term Review
60.       Assurances were obtained that the Government would, not later than
30 months from the date of credit effectiveness, prepare a mid-term review
report in accordance with terms of reference prepared in consultation with
IDA, which would be presented to IDA for review and com.'ents. Within 33
months from the date of credit effectiveness, the Government and IDA plan to
conduct a joint follow-up to the review, including field visits, if needed,
to determine how the project might be modified to increase its impact during
the remainder of the implementation period.
Irrigation Cost Recovery
61.       The Government accepts in principle the desirability of
introducing a system of cost recovery for irrigation development, but has
not yet formulated a policy for that purpose. The Government indicated
during negotiations that it would initiate a study to explore the issues
related to and collect data needed for formulating such a policy; and the
study would be reviewed by IFAD and IDA. The study would, inter alia,
explore sector-wide applicability of irrigation cost recovery, irrespective
of sources of funds; the method and level of cost recovery; and the
compatibility of cost recovery between beneficiaries of MOA-financed schemes
and those who have used credit to help them to develop irrigation.
Environmental Impact
62.       The project is designed to reduce and arrest environmental
degradation through soil and water conservation. Small-scale irrigation
projects would increase agrilcultural productivity and, through land
levelling and/or terracing, contribute to soil conservation. A possible
localized negative effect could appear where inexperienced irrigators would
overwater their fields and cause some erosion on steep terrain. Training in
field water management included in the project would address this potential
problem.
International Water Rights
63.       New schemes to be constructed under the project would be situated
in drainage basins belonging exclusively to Ethiopia. Rehabilitation of
existing schemes would extend to the Juba and Wabe Shebelli rivers drainage
basins. These are international waterways shared by Ethiopia and Somalia.
However, riparian water rights issues would not arise, because scheme
rehabilitation would not involve the use of additional water or a change in
water quality.
Benefits
64.       The main quantifiable benefits stemming from the Small-scale
Irrigation Subproject would be an increase in the production of crops and



- 19 -
vegetables by about 18,000 beneficiary farmers on an irrigated aree of about
4,400 ha and on rainfed land of about 18,000 ha. Bund stabilization
representing 9,500 ha of bunds would directly benefit about 50,000 to
100,000 families, through introduction of more productive and nutritious
grasses and legumes thereby Improving the fodder available to livestock.
More than 300,000 would benefit from the improved extension service.
65.       A 19 percent economic rate of return has been calculated for the
irrigation subproject, and a 15 percent economic rate of return for the
conservation and agricultural support subproject. With irrigation,
extension, field trials and soil conservation work, the expected production
increases should be easily obtainable and sustainable over the expected 25-
year life of the project. Tests show relatively little sensitivity to
reduced benefits, increased costs or delayed implementation.
Risks
66.       Delays in Implementation during the early stages could occur due
to inadequate institutional strength and experience. Heasures against such
risks are provisions to encourage an expeditious start, strong institution
t'ilding and preparation of annual work programs. Overall, given the
prevailing environment in Ethiopia, the risks for the proposed project are
considered low, and given the potential benefits, fully justifiable.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
February 4, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
1986 SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET                     P     1    6
ETHIOP IA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Low-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate   S-S Africa    S-S Africa
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)       11047.3    13176.3    16583.1
Female (%)                      35.8        35.3       33.2        35.7       37.5
Agriculture (%)                 86.3       83.6        79.8 a      7B.9       59.4
Industry (M)                     5.3        6.4         7.8 a       7.6       14.8
Participation rate (X)
Total                           43.5        42.1       39.3        38.9       36.2
Male                            57.0        55.6       52.0        50.4       45.8
Fomale                          30.5        29.2       26.4        27.5       26.7
Age dependency ratio               0.9         0.9        0.9         1.0         1.0
HOUSING
Average size of household;
Total                                        4.5.
Urban                            3.5         4.2
Rural                                        4.5
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban                           58.2b
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                  11.0        16.0       46.0        60.1       98.5
Male                   16.0       23.0        58.0       69.6       107.8
Female                  6.0       10.0        34.0       51.3        90.7
Secondary: Total                 2.0         4.0       13.0        12.5       21.0
Male                  3.0        6.0        17.0       16.5        28.5
Female                1.0        2.0         9.0        9-0        16.9
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         41.5       46.1        59.3        45.1       42.5
Secondary                       20.1       27.7          ,         23.0       27.7
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                                          59.6       80.8
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. ANO POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)             9.7       20.9        16.7        54.6      530.7
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest tO% of households
Highest 20%
Lowest 20%
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty Income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                      115.0      190.0  c               689.6
Rural                                       65.0                             338.1
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                                       60.0
Rural                                       65.0
Passenger cars/thou pop.           0.9         15                               36.0
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)          1.3         1.0        0.9         3.6        7.4
EPO July 1986
Net awailahi
MM: Group aveorage are popuWlan weighted. Country coeerag deoends an data avgilethlltv sed is not unriorm. Unless otherwise
*et 1915 reft to any yer between 19M and 196; 1973 betwen 1970 and 197t and most rent estimate betwe-n 1982 and 195.
n 19I. b. Addls Abebe only. c- 1961.



-21-                                      ANNJEX I
Page 2 of 6
1986  SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET
ETHIOPIA
Reference Group. (MRE)
Moat
Recent    Low-income    Mid-income
1965        1973    Eatimate   S-S Afrtca    S-S Africa
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)   1221.9         1221.9      t221.9
Agrtcultural (% of total)           48.0        48.7        48.4
9NP PER CAPITA (US$)                                          110.0       219.9      1025.3
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)          25409.0    31284.0    42169.0
Urban pop. I% of total)                          9.7         15.2        20.4        33.1
Population growtn rate(%):
Tota l                                         2.6         2.8          2.9         2.8
Urban                                          7.4         6.1          6.2         4.8
Life expect, at birth lyra)         42.7        43.6        44.5         48,2        51.0
Population projections:
Pop, in 2000 (mill)                                       65.1
Stationary pop. (mill)                                   204.0
Population density per sq km
oF agricultural land                43.3        52.6        71.3         55.9        45.6
Pop. age structure (1):
0-it yrs                          44.9        A5.3        46.0         46.7        46.2
15-64 yrm                        52.5         52.1        51f3        50 4        51.0
65 and above                       2.6         2,7         2.7          2.9         2.8
Crude birth rate (per thou)         43.5        43.2        41.0         46 8        46.3
Crude death rats (per thou)         20.3         19.5       24.0         18.3        15.6
Total fertility rate                 5.8         5.8         6.1          6.6         6.4
Infant mort. rate (per thou)       166.0       155.0       172.0        128.5       103.2
Child death rate (per thou)         37.0        35.0        39.0         25.7        17.6
Family planning:
Acceptors. annual (thou)
Users (% of married women)                                 2.0          4.5         7.1
FOOo. HEALTH AND lUTRITION
Index of food production per
captta (1974-76 * 100)             117.1       tO6.3        90.0         89.5        88.3
Per capita supply of:
Caloreso  (% of requirmnts)       93.1        81-2        92.8        90.0         94.2
Proteins (grams per day)          73.9        63.7        72.7        52.6         50.6
Pop. per physician (thou)           70.2        83.6        88.1 a       39.2        11.3
Pop, per nurse (thou)                5.8         6.4         5.6 a        3.3         2.6
P6p. per hospital  oea (tnou)        2.7         3.7         3.8 a        1.7         1.4
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                      6.0        14.5        25.2        45.8
Urban                   61.0        82.0         61.6        70.S
Rural       . ..         1.0         3.9         i7.1        35.0
Population Growth               Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
x                                                            x
5                           200                        1   120
ISO       -      - .-- 
3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-8
100-
2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0.                                              0~~~~~~~5
1I05-7 1973-84         1960 1965 1970 1275 1980       1960 1965 1970 1975 1980
IW ErsICOPA G                                       ETHIOPIA
CM FIRST REr CRDUP                              a  FIRST RtEf_Ggour



- 22 -                                      ANNEX I
3  Definitions of Social Indicators                                 Page 3 of 6
The definilion of a particular social indicator may  Infant (age 0-1) mortal/ty rate - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over   per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. For instunce, diffcrcnt countries dcfinc "urban  year of age, in a given year.
area" or "safc watcr" in diffcrcnt ways.           Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
of children, age 14, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousaind squarc kilometers)                 same age group in a given year. For most developing
Total - Total surfiace area comprising land arci and  countrics thesc data are derived rrom models using
inland waters.                                    information on infant mortality rates.
Agricultural (perenliage of total) - Estimate of ugri-  Family planning - acceptors, (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and  number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kithcdn gardens or to lic fallow, Ias percentagc of  ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                            ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married wor-
GNP PER CAIPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esli-    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
mates at current market prices. calculatcd by the  age who arc practising, or whose husbands are
conversion mcthod used for the World Bank At/ar,    practising. any form or contraception. Women of
1986.                                             child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549.
although for some countrics contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                   measurcd for another age group.
Total population - mid-year (n illions)
Urban population (per.e" -e of total) - Diffcrent  FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
countrics follow diffcrcnt definitions of urban popu-    Index offoodproductionper capita (1974- 76 - JOJ)
lation. Such diffcrences may affect comparability of    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among counLries.                             commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Population growth rore (percent) - toral and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-  mary commodities (for cxample, sugarcane instead
tions.                                            of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number or years a  trients (for example, tca and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals,
mortality for all pcoplc at the lime of its birth werc  vegetables. oil sceds, sugarcane and sugar beets,
to stay the same throughout its life.             livestock. and livestock products. Aggregatc produc-
Population projections                            tion of each country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex. fcrtility and  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980. until the population  food supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary statc.                       Available supplies comprise domestic produclion,
Stationary population - The projectcd population  imports less cxports, and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e..    supplics cxclude animal fecd, seeds for use in agri-
the birLh rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture. quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements werc csLimated for
zero.                                              1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Population density, agricultural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological nceds for normal
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    activity and health considering body weights, cnvi-
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years, working age 15-64 years, and people of 65  population.
ycars and ovcr as percentages of population.      Per capita supply of protein (grams per ecy) - Protein
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                       supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand     all countries established by Unitdd States Depart-
population.                              -        ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Totalfertility rate - The average number of children  ances or 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to    are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.                 world, as proposed by FAO.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a    main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
mcdical school at university level.               included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided    Percentage of dwellings with electriciry - total, urban.
by number of practising grduate nurses, assistant    andrural- Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurscs, practical nursr.. and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Population per hosp.al bed - Pbpulation divided by
number of hospitr4 beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments    Primary School Enrollment - rotal, mule andfemale
permanently saffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross cnrollment or all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.       -             .               many countries consider primary school age to be
Access to sofe warer (percentage efpoputltion) - total,    6-11 years. others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban, and rural- eople{total, urban, and rural) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable accessto safe fc wax  Apaly (indiudes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface watcls or untreated bult uacontaminated    countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as aat from springs, simitMiy wells, itd  may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area apublic foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost locatzd not more than 200 mentrs    school age.
from a house may ae conidered within reasonable     Secondary School Enrollment - total. male and
access of that house. In run3l areas reasonable acess   female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that mreinbers of the household do not    pupils enrolled in  vocational, or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionatc part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incompictc rcsponses, and    years of age.
largc variations between counries, may affect the.  Pupil-reacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and    rtudents enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, certain definitions    numtber of teachers.
and classifications such as urban and ruraL reason-  P'rcen:age pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
able access to safc water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources (when they arc not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably ftrom country to country  -
and thus affect comparability of the data.        INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                       Energy consumptionper capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Thtsl labor force (millions) - . Eonoricafy active   -yakent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons, including anned forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
ecluding housewives and .        D.inition .      gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothernal electricity).
Priatae income distribution - Income (both in cash
various countries are not comparable.             and
Female' (percenr) - Female labor force as a percen    kd) accrug to percentile groups f h
tagc of total labor force.         -              holds ranked by total household income.
Agicudture (percent) - Labot force in farming,    Passenger cars (per thousandpopulation) - Includes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer thai. cight persons; cx-
labor force.                                      cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Indusirv (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of "daily gencral interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                paper," defined as '  periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percer.rJ - total, male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are crnmputed as the peroentage    to be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are    Estimated absolute poverty incorne level (USS per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on  capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex st:ucture of the population.          level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                          imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                           Estinated population below absolute poverty income
Average si:e of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
tool. urban, and rural - A household consists of-a    populations who live in "absolute poverty."



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page- 6 OF S
ETHIOPIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP Per Capita = 11060 (1984)
APHUAL RATE OF GROWTH OF GDP
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN FY 1986  1/                   AT CONSTANT FACTOR COST 01)
(Feoml Year.)
US  Min.   X           1981-83      1983    1984     1986
CDP at Market Prices        4835.9   100.0           3.1         5.1    -3.7     -8.6
Investment                   622.5    10.8
Gross Domestic Savings      -261.5    -5.2
Resource Balance            -774.0  -18.0
Exports of Goods and NFS    567.9    11.5
Imports of Good. and NFS   1331.9    27.5
OUTPUT IN 1989 V/
Value Added
us: Mln.           s
Agriculture              1921.8          44.3
Industry                 894.6           16.0
Services                 1722.7          39.7
Total at Factor Cost    4338.8         10.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Br. MI4               Xof CDP
FY 198S 1/         FY ldi6r79`2-84
Current Receipts              2401.1             24.0         20.9
Current Expenditures          2364.6             23.6         21.2
Current Surplus                 36.6              3.4         -0.3
Capital Expenditures          1275.8             12.7          8.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  1980     1981     1962      1983       1984        1985
(Fiscal Years)                          (Millon Br. outstanding end period)
Money and quasi-money                    2332.1    2377.6   2643.7   3040.5    33Q3.7      3540.1
Bank Cre-it to Central Government         968.1    1187.9   1180.8   1980.8    2293.4      2620.7
Bank CrJdit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                1644.2    1721.3   1944.3   1741.7    1881.9      1902.8
(Percentage.)
Money ns X of CDP                          27.3      26.7     28.8      30.4      33.7       38.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        4.5       6.1      5.6     -0.4        8.4       19.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector               12.3      14.4      6.6      67.8      15.8       14.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector              34.S       4.7      12.9    -10.4       8.9        2.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at tie official exchange rate of
USt1.00 = Birr 2.07
All Fiscal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
Aj     Provisional Data for 1986.



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
1963      1994      1986          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Mi iTlons US)           (Fiscal Year Average 19B8-85)
US Min. X
Exports Goode, NFS           551.8     611.9     649.2      Coftfe           r4         68e4.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        961.7    1116.8    1082.0      Pulses            10.8    2.6
Resource Gap (deficit  -)  -409.9    -S0L9    -632.8        O;l-edu            9.9    2.4
Hide. nt Skins    48.4   11.9
Investment Income (not)      -13.6     -19.2     -35.6      Oilsed cake        5.5    1.4
Private Transfers (not)       84.9    167.2    144.9        Other             87.5  21.4
Balance on Current Acct.   -39.86    -4165.    -420.9       Total            408.6  1W.0
Official Transfers (net)      92.6    161.9    296.4
Private ILT Capital (net)      0.0       6.6       0.6
Public MLT Borrowing (net)   20396     264.1    159.6
Disburseents             (263.8)   (2f8.6)   (256.1)      EXTERNAL DEBT
Amortization              (49.8)    (64.7)   ( 90 6)      DECEMBER al, 1985        US S Min
Short-term Capital            -9.6      15.9      42.3      Total outstanding A
Disbursed                  2908.6
Changes in reserves
(- = increase)              71.6      42.3    -46.3       DEBT SERVICE RATIO
Minor Item  (incl. errors)   -19.4      -3.3    -83.1          FOR FY 1985
Not For. Asset. (end year)   107.3      64.8    112.4                                     %
Petroleum Imports            154.4    156.2    a1.7        Total Outotanding
Petroleum Product Imports     7.3      28.2      51.5           Disbursed             21.5
Rate of Exchange Since 1973
USS1.UO = Br. 2.67
Br.1.00 = USUS.48
rBRD/rDA LEMtING, (March 31. 1986) (Million USE)
1330    IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed         39.8   428.4
Undisbursed                       -       304.8
Outstanding incl. Undisbureed             733.2
5 = not available
January 1987



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
A. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
A m o u n t
Loan or                                                           (US$ MillLon)
Credit                                                           Less Cancellations  Undis-
Number      Year    Borrower           Purpose                    Bank      IDA 1   bursedl
Twelve loans and twenty five credits fully disbursed             108.6    388.6
Cr. 707-ET   1977   Ethiopia2   Revised Ahnibara                           25.0         3.0
Cr.1275-ET   1982   Ethiopia    Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank                 30.0        22.5
Cr.1366-ET   1983   Ethiopia    Urban Development                          20.0        15.2
Cr. 1386-ET   1983   Ethiopia    Petroleum Exploration                      7.0         2.6
Cr.1404-ET   1983   Ethiopia    Second Road Sector                         70.0        53.1
Cr.1429-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Coffee Processing & Marketing              35.0        28.0
Cr.1509-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Sixth Telecommunications                   40.0        36.5
Cr.1520-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Sixth Education                            70.0        67.B
Cr.1521-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Agric. Research                            22.0        21.2
Cr.1522-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Technical Assistance                        4.0         3.5
Cr.1576-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Drought Recovery Program                   30.0        12.8
Cr.1676-ET   1986   Ethiopia    Port Eng'g & Construction                   5.5         5.5
Cr.1704-ET3  1986   Ethiopia    Energy                                     62.0        62.0
Cr.1722-ET3  1986   Ethiopia    Forestry                                   45.0        45.0
Total                                       108.6    854.1
of which has been repaid                    71.0     10.9
Total now outstanding                        37.6    843.2
Amount sold                      6.0
of which has been repaid       6.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)             37.6    843.2
Total Undisbursed                                               378.7
1/ Credit 1275-ET and higher are denominated in SDRs and are shown in US$ equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.
2/  US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has been repaid ou
out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
3| Signed but not yet effective.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1986)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                       Type of                Amount
Year         Obligor                         Business      Loan     Equity    Total
1965     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I        Textiles       1.5       1.0       2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp & Paper Co.           Paper          -         1.9       1.9
1968     HVA Metahara, S.C.                  Sugar         5.5        3.5       9.0
1970     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II       Textiles      0.4        0.2       0.6
1973     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III    Textiles         1.5       0.2       1.7
Total Gross Commitments                           8.9        6.8     15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                      8.9       6.8      15.7
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 -          -        -
Total undisbursed



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
SHALL-SCALE IRRIGATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - TimLetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the Program    : Fifteen months
(b)  Program prepared by                   : IFAD through a Preparation
Mission in February, 1985
and a Formulation Mission in
NovemberlDecember, 1985.
(c)  Appraisal Mission                     : May-June, 1986
(d)  Negotiations                          s November 25, to
December 1, 1986
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness         :  120 days after credit signing
Sec-ion II - Special Implementation Action
IFAD has financed a Special Operational Facility Fund of US$500,000 to
finance project start-up activities.
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) For Program Year 1, the work program would be prepared and furnished to
IDA for review and comment (para. 52);
(b) The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
IFAD Loan Agreement and OPEC Loan Agreement, and all conditions
precedent to release of the RFP Grant (para. 54).
Other Conditions
(a) The Project Studies and Preparation Unit would, by August 31, 1987, be
adequately strengthened to undertake the tasks described (para. 35);
(b)  IDD would establish, by December 31, 1987, the zonal Support Units
responsible for planning, design, technical support and supervision of
rehabilitation and construction of irrigation schemes (para 36);



ANNEX III
- 29 -                          Page 2 of 2
(c)  Selection of farmers to benefit from small-scale irrigation would be
based on technical criteria agreed at negotiations (pars. 38);
(d)  The Government would establish a Central Project Coordinating
Committee, not later than August 31, 1987, and appoint the head of the
Technical Support Unit of MOA to be the project coordinator
(para. 46);
(e) The =3A Hararghe zonal management would organize adequate training
programs for zonal and district technical staff which is to be carried
out with the cooperation of Alemasys University of Agriculture (para.
50);
(f)  A comprehensive draft annual work program would be prepared by MOA and
AIDB each year, to be submitted to the Association for review. The
final program, would reflect the comments of the Association (para.
52); and
(g) The Government, not later than 30 months after credit effectiveness
,would present for IDA comnents a mid-tern review of the progress of the
project, of such scope as the Association shall reasonably request
(para. 60).



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Procurement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Project Element           ICB         LCB       Other          NA       Total
Civil Works              0.10        1.00                               1.10
(0.10) b/  (0.10) a/                          (0.90)
(0.70) b/
Vehicles                 1.50                                           1.50
(0.60) a!                                     (1.50)
(0.90) b/
Equipment &              1.50                    1.00                   2.50
Furniture               (0.80) a/               (0.60)a/               (2.20)
(0.60) b/              (0.20)b/
Material                                         2.00                   2.00
(1.10) a/             (1.10)
T.A. & Training                                  9.40                   9.40
(4.15)a/              (9.40)
(5 .25) b/
Skilled Labor                                                1.80       1.80
(0.90)a/  (0.90)
Unskilled Labor                                              4.50 -    4.50
(1.00)cI  (1.00)
Women's Credit                                               0.30       0.30
(0.30)aI  (0.30)
Construction and
Operating Cost                                           2.20       2.20
(1.10)a/  (1.10)
Incremental                                                  8.40       8.40
Recurrent Cost                                          (1.40)a/  (4.60)
(3.20)b/
Total                3.10        1.00       12.40       17.20      33.70
(1.40)aI   (0.10)a/   (5.85)a/   (3.70)aI (23.00)d/
(1.60)b&,   (0.70)bI/   (5.45)-bl   (3.20)b5/
(1.00)c/
a/  Financed by IFAD
b/ Financed by IDA including OPEC
cl Financed by WFP
di US$1 million from Loan 131-ET not included since its
procurement procedure is different.



'I                       N~~~~~~~~~~~P
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~~K.                                               &                                      I   'K.~~77



IRD 20028
ETHIOPIA
IFAD SPECIAL COUNTRY PROGRAM
-j >9Program Area
*    MOA Zone Oilices
AIDB Offices-
-  -  *  Head Oftice
A      Branch Offices
'  ~ -   ^ Representative Offices
Agro-Ecological Zones of the Central
Highland-s fAbove 1500 Meters)-
....  \  5  ;i High Potential
*s!51    Low Potential
-  Isohyets in Millimeters
;-A    All-Weather Roads
-.    u   -Dry-Weather Roads
Rivers
. - \|    Presently Irrigated Areas
International Boundaries
-- 4  _f/;DJIB OUTI BOUT1
t~~ ~ ~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .      w    xDo  3DD KJIOMEERS
l               1 >0    150     MD MIES
N. S- OMALIA
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                     ;  _  __._
Ft  /  /                            t t          si   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVA1R REP   ^D| -l-
{_-   7-h                                                                                     fiANABI     . 
P.h                                                           r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OM a.0T
.--~~~~S  S  M  A  L I A    Ig  >.
/ ~ ~~~               ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                "'MS * -~- 
Y       A          zeT ..                                                                -          eIQ . H    At
__  ~~           /                    4A            
SEPTEMA ER 1986



