Doc=ent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13300
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
JULY 5, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and maY be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Jordan Dinar (JD) = 100 Piasters = 1,000 Fils
Exchange Rates'
(Jordan Dinar per I US Dollar)
Market
Period                         Period Average
1983                               0.363
1984                               0.384
1985                               0.394
1986                              0.350
1987                               0.339
1988                               0.372
1989                               0.570
1990                               0.664
1991                              0.681
1992                               0.680
First 3 quarters of 1993                   0.691
Government's Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
List of Abbreviations
AA           - Amending Agreement for both original Loan and Project Agreements, dated January 23, 1988
AM           - Former Amman Municipality
ARTS         - Amman Regional Transport Study
CBD          - Central Business District
ECA/MENA  - Europe & Central Asia/Middle East and North Africa Regions
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
GADP         - Greater Amman Development Plan study
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GOJ          - Government of Jordan
IBRD         - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (The World Bank)
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
LA           - Original Loan Agreement between GOJ and IBRD dated July 28, 1983
MOGA         - Municipality of Greater Amman (after amalgamating former AM and surrounding
municipalities in 1987)
MOP          - Ministry of Planning
NPC          - Former National Planning Council
PA           - Original Project Agreement between IBRD and former AM dated July 28, 1983
PCR          - Project Completion Report
RM           - Road Maintenance study
SAR          - Staff Appraisal Report
USAID        - United States' Agency for International Development
WB           - The World Bank, referred to as the Bank
1/    Source: International Financial Statistics, International Monetary Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 5, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Performance Completion Report on Jordan
Amman Transport and Municipal Development Project (Loan 2334-Jo)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Jordan - Arnman Transport and Municipal
Development Project (Loan 2334-JO)". The US$30 million Loan was approved in May 1983 and
closed on June 30, 1993, four years behind schedule. Out of the loan proceeds, US$6.08 million
(20% of the total) were cancelled. The Borrower did not submit a Part II.
Project objectives were to improve roads, to increase the capacity of Amman Municipality
(AM) to manage traffic and solid waste services, and to strengthen AM capacity to formulate policy,
development plans and investment programs. Domestic support for the project was not sustained
after loan effectiveness and new administrative arrangements hindered project implementation. In
April 1988, the project was restructured and the loan amount reduced to US$25 million.
Civil works were completed albeit with serious delays and lapses in construction method and
supervision. A sustainable system of waste collection was put in place. The studies and technical
assistance component had mixed results. Some study findings are being implemented but sectoral
planning and monitoring still leave much to be desired. The economic rate of return appears
acceptable but needs to be confirmed by more complete traffic surveys.
The PCR gives an opaque account of preparation, implementation and results but the major
problems stand out. The Bank allowed the project to become excessively complex without assessing
the absorptive and implementation capacity of AM. Bank supervision missions were inadequate in
the early years and, after the project was restructured, suffered from the absence of financial analysts.
For his part, the Borrower changed priorities. Successive changes in AM's management, frequent
staff turnover, and irregular payment of invoices in local currency created difficulties both for the
efficient execution of physical works and for the introduction of sound planning.
Overall, the project is rated as marginally satisfactory, the sustainability of its benefits as likely,
and its institutional impact as modest.
The project may be audited together with the Multi-Mode Transport Project (Loan 2463-JO).
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Title                                                                                             Page No.
PREFACE  ...............................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................                                                  ii
PART I (Project Review from  Bank's Perspective)  ..................................
1.   Project Identity ..........................................................1
2.   Background ............................................................ 1
3.   Project Objectives and Description .....................................                              3
4. Project Design and Organization                                       .5
5.   Project Implementation  ..................................... 6
6.   Project Results .....................................                                               11
7.   Economic Re-Evaluation and Rates of Return ................................. 11
8.   Impact and Sustainability of the Project .....................................  12
9.   Bank Performance .....................................                                               13
10. Borrower Performance .....................................                                           13
11. Bank - Borrower Relationship  .............           ................................ 13
12. Consulting Services ..................................                                               13
13. Project Documentation and Data ..................................                                    14
14. Status of Covenants ..................................                                               14
15. Lessons Learned ..................................                                                   14
PART II The Borrower did not provide Part II ..................................   16
PART III (Statistical Information)        ................                .................. 17
1.  Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits ...............                        ................... 17
2. Project Timetable ..................................                                                  18
3. Loan Disbursements ..................................                                                 19
4.   Status of Covenants .................................. 21
5.   Project Components and Implementation  ..................................   22
6.  Appraisal and Actual Cost ..................................                                         24
7.   Appraisal and Actual Project Financing  ..................................    25
8.   Rate of Return .................................. 27
9.   Mission Data  .................................. 29
Maps: IBRD No. 25756R and 25758R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization._






i
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF .ORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Amman Transport and Municipal
Development Project in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, for which Loan 2334-JO in the amount
of US$ 30.0 million, was signed on July 28, 1983, and became effective on March 30, 1984. US$ 5.0
million was cancelled on August 20, 1987. The loan was closed on June 30, 1993, four years behind
original schedule, and the remaining undisbursed balance of US$ 1.08 million will be cancelled.
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared: the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department II of MENA Regional Office prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I
and III; the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and the implementing agency: the
Municipality of Greater Amman (MOGA), formerly the Municipality of Amman (AM) and
surrounding municipalities did not provide Part II.
3.       Preparation of the PCR started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project
in July 1993. The report is based, inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, and the Bank's internal memoranda and reports.






ii
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF .ORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The principal objectives of the project were: (i) to improve the transport infrastructure
in the capital Amman and reduce traffic problems; (ii) to increase the capacity of the Municipality
of Greater Amman (MOGA) to manage transport and solid waste services; and, (iii) to strengthen
MOGA's institutional capacity to formulate appropriate policy decisions and future development
planning. The project primarily focused on achieving these objectives through an integrated pattern
of organizational reforms, staff upgrading and policy and procedural innovations supported by a wide
range of studies and training. Direct physical investments in civil works and equipment were the main
vehicle for proceeding with the necessary reform.
Implementation Experience
2.       The experience with the preparation and implementation of the project shows two distinct
phases. The first phase, form identification to loan effectiveness, was characterized by strong
commitment across the management hierarchy of MOGA. The second phase, however, coincided
with several successive events which diluted support for the project (para. 5.1).  Project
implementation effectively was held in abeyance until it was restructured in April 1988 (para. 3.3).
3.       The closing of the loan was extended by four years as a result of various administrative,
technical, financial and political factors (paras. 5.1 and 5.5). At closing, June 1993, however, all the
project's components as restructured were satisfactorily completed (para. 6.1). Likewise, studies and
technical assistance contemplated by the project were also completed. Recommendations thereof
were either implemented or are under implementation (para. 6.2).
4.       The project encountered several procurement problems, which primarily centered on
deviations in tendering procedures and review process from agreed to provisions under the loan
agreement (paras. 5.7-5.9). The rectification of these problems proved costly in time and effort and
were largely because of insufficient knowledge of Bank procurement procedures. Furthermore,
rigidities imposed by standard public procurement procedures in Jordan impeded the ability of
implementing agencies to expedite the process.
5.       The decline in the JD exchange rate along with a recession caused contractors and
suppliers difficulties. Several equipment tenders, bid in JDs, were cancelled and had to be re-
tendered (para. 5.10).
6.       The overall project cost, in nominal terms, without taking into consideration the changes
that occurred in the project scope after restructuring, increased in JD by 5 percent, while it decreased
in US$ by 38 percent (para. 5.11). If, however, the changes in the project scope are factored in, the
adjusted cost increased, in nominal terms, by 20 percent in JD, while it decreased in US$ by 9



iii
percent mainly due to the change in the average exchange rate of the JD over the duration of the
project (para. 5.12).
7.       The remaining undisbursed balance of US$ 1.08 million will be cancelled in addition to
the US$ 5.0 million which were cancelled in August 1987 after project restructuring (para. 5.13).
8.       During the early stages of project implementation, project accounts and audits did not
conform to agreed formats. However, the situation improved shortly after when the technical
assistance advisors came on board. Subsequent audits were adequate but frequently late despite
frequent reminders by the Bank.
9.       Notwithstanding its slow implementation, the project did complete all components as
restructured. Moreover, MOGA also completed components cancelled during restructuring using its
own resources (para. 6.1). The re-estimated ex-post economic rate of return for the major physical
components was 33 percent for the two major intersections and 8 percent for the three corridor
improvements (para. 7.1). Other components which included the solid waste collection and disposal
system and the food hygiene laboratory are expected to yield good returns although these are not
readily quantifiable.
Sustainability
10.      The most sustainable component of the project seems to be the solid waste collection and
disposal system where the high degree of "ownership" and commitment by MOGA was extremely
instrumental to its success. It can serve as a model for other countries in the region. Furthermore,
the successful implementation of an effective method for collection of user charges for the solid waste
system (included in the monthly electricity bill) has prompted MOGA to explore options to privatize
the waste collection system and a trial area was identified for piloting (para. 8.2). Other positive
steps towards achieving sustainability especially in institutional matters are being slowly implemented
by MOGA (para. 8.3), and it seems early at this stage to pass judgement on these efforts.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.       In retrospect, it seems that the project was made unduly complex making it harder to
manage and coordinate by the implementing agency. Exogenous factors further exacerbated this
situation. The following are specific lessons, which emerged from the experience of this project
although many others are scattered within the body of the report:
- Avoid complex projects with too many integrated components when the implementing
agency has limited executing capacity. The Bank should also endeavor to ensure that
project objectives have the full support of the Borrower and its implementing agency.
The positive experience of the solid waste components reinforces this point.
- The Bank should appraise projects based on final engineering designs. Also,
significant design changes should be subject to rigorous economic justification.
- The Bank should assess, as part of the appraisal process, the need to organize a
project launch workshop in order to familiarize the staff of the implementing agency



iv
with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and how these procedures
assimilate to national ones. Moreover, these workshops should be tailored to the
specific needs of the sector/project.
Bank supervision missions should have an adequate skill-mix.
Data collected and retained on the project by various entities (within and outside the
Bank) seemed like "information islands": unreconcilable and often ineffective in
monitoring aspects of loan supervision and administration. It would be worthwhile
to investigate comprehensively means of improving the management and dissemination
of project related information Bank-wide.



A



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Project Identity
Project Name                      Amman Transport and Municipal
Development Project
Loan Number                       2334-JO
Loan Amount                       US$ 30.0 million
Loan Cancellations                US$ 6.08 million
Regional Vice Presidential Unit   Middle East and North Africa
Country                           Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector                            Urban Transport
2.       Background
Introduction
2.1      The population of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, which grew from 0.9 million
in 1961 to an estimated 4.0 million in 1992 through high natural growth rates (historically
between 4-5 percent annually) and successive waves of massive migration because of regional
conflicts, is largely confined to one sixth of the Kingdom's total area of 91,000 km2. About 70
percent of the population is urbanized (living in localities of 5,000 or more persons). Seventy
percent of the urbanized total lives within 30 kilometers of the capital Amman, which also
accounts for the production of most of the country's output of services and manufacturing
industries.
2.2      This rapid increase in the Amman region's population, coupled with existing
uneconomic zoning policies resulted in an urban sprawl manifesting itself in inefficiently
scattered urban developments with less than adequate services. Furthermore, the concentration
of commercial and business activities in the Central Business District (CBD) resulted in massive
traffic jams and substantial delays in transport. Recognizing the importance of developing the
Amman region, the Government of Jordan (GOJ) was involved over the past two decades, with
Bank support, in several urban related development projects. Major strides were made in recent
years in improving urban services.
2.3      The GOJ initially expressed interest in October 1981 to secure Bank assistance to
finance investments for urban transport improvements in high priority areas of Amman. The
immediate origin of this project was a demand by the Prime Minister that congestion should be
eliminated as quickly as possible at specific intersections in Amman. The project was initially



-2-
identified in October 1982 as an urban transport project, following the completion of the Amman
Region Transport Study (ARTS) and the Bank's Urban Sector Review (Green Cover Report:
3965-JO, dated July 23, 1982). During the preparation of the proposed urban transport project,
components involving other municipal infrastructure and services, notably solid waste, were
added at the Government's request. The project was appraised (as an urban transport and
municipal development project) in January 1983, and further refined in follow-up discussions
in Amman in April 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1983, and the loan was
approved on July 7, 1983. The loan was signed on July 28, 1983 and became effective on
March 30, 1984, after two extensions (3 months followed by 1 month) because of delays in
matters related to land acquisition and recruitment of key personnel within the newly established
project unit (both were conditions for effectiveness).
Sector Development Objectives
2.4      The Bank's strategy regarding urban development was to assist the Government in
providing urban services efficiently where they are needed most to stimulate economic growth
and to benefit less advantaged members of society. Both objectives implied a focus on the
Amman region. The strategy also required strengthening local governments to plan and manage
increasingly complex urban areas. In line with this strategy, the Bank's Urban Sector Review
highlighted sub-sectors (transport and solid waste collection and disposal among others) within
the urban context as requiring special attention because of their investment needs and widespread
ramifications for Amman regional development. Other sectors such was water and low-income
housing were addressed in separate projects (Table 1, Part III).
2.5      The project proposed to improve several sector-related policy issues including
investment ranking, better coordination of major infrastructural investments and more efficient
operation and maintenance of municipal services. The inclusion of well focused development
planning and strategy formulation along with numerous other studies and technical assistance in
key operations departments was intended to strengthen MOGA's ability to formulate related
policy issues.
Linkages Between the Project and Macro Policy Objectives
2.6      Jordan enjoyed a buoyant economy during the late 1970s with real GDP growth
averaging 10 percent per annum.  Workers' remittances, foreign grants, and industrial
production (particularly manufacturing) were the engines of growth during that period.
2.7      In the mid-1980s, however, conditions became less favorable: worker remittances fell
sharply and foreign grants declined in absolute terms. In addition, future growth was heavily
dependent upon the development of exports of light manufactured products and services heavily
concentrated in and around Greater Amman. Such activities rely, among other things, upon well
developed and managed urban services. Reduced growth prospects also implied a need for
greater budgetary stringency and more attention to cost effective means for providing suitable
services.



-3-
3.        Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1       The principal objectives of the project at appraisal were:  (i) to undertake high
priority road and traffic improvements by strengthening Amman's transport infrastructure and
reducing traffic problems; (ii) to increase the capacity of the Municipality of Greater Amman2
(MOGA) to manage transport and solid waste services by upgrading plant and equipment; and
(iii) to strengthen its capacity to formulate appropriate policy decisions, development plans and
investment programs through technical assistance and training. These principal objectives
remained substantially unchanged after project-restructuring in 1987 (para. 3.3).
Project Components
3.2       The project, as appraised, pursued the above objectives through the following four
major parts (detailed components are listed in Table 5(a), Part III):
Transport and Traffic - (US$47.74 million, 73 percent of the total
estimated cost) consisted of improvements to 4 major intersections, and
traffic improvement measures along various highly trafficked corridors
and within the CBD in Amman. Other works included rehabilitation of
roads and staircases, minor improvements to access roads to low income
areas and junctions identified as serious accident black spots.  Non-
physical components included measures to increase traffic enforcement
effectiveness in addition to studies for completing the arterial road
network in Amman.
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal - (US$8.46 million, 13 percent of
the total estimated cost) consisted of providing solid waste collection
equipment, the construction and equipping of 4 sanitary landfills, and
studies to increase the efficiency of solid waste collection.
Municipality's Technical Departments - (US$6.68 million, 10 percent of
the total estimated cost) consisted mainly of strengthening the Engineering
and Studies Departments through organizational streamlining, staff
upgrading, technical assistance, and installation of a suitable cost
accounting system.  Provision of equipment for road maintenance,
construction of a materials laboratory and design and quality control of
pavements were also included along with a two-year pilot road
maintenance program.
2/        MOGA was created in 1988 by the amalgamation of Amman Municipality (AM) with the
surrounding small municipalities. This report used MOGA for all references to AM.



-4-
Institutional Development - (US$2.73 million, 4 percent of the total
estimated cost) consisted of the preparation various investment strategies
and programs as well as training in specialty areas.
3.3      In April 1988, the project was restructured3 (reasons for restructuring are discussed
elsewhere (para. 5.1)). Modifications called for reducing the project scope and simplifying
conditionalities in line with MOGA's new priorities. The loan amount was also reduced by
about 17 percent to US$25 million (from the original US$30 million). The main changes in the
physical components included:
(i) cancelling several traffic improvements and road maintenance components which
were implemented by MOGA using own resources either for the purpose of
modifying the design standards agreed upon at appraisal or to avoid the
requirements of the Bank's procurement guidelines;
(ii) postponing several traffic scheme improvements with strong linkages to the
Greater Amman Development Plan (GADP) study pending its outcome. These
components were subsequently cancelled because the adoption of GADP's
recommendations was delayed and, therefore, these items could not be completed
within the time frame of the project;
(iii) cancelling the road rehabilitation component because of the availability of regular
financing from MOGA's own resources;
(iv) modifying equipment lists largely to reflect the changed needs of MOGA after
the amalgamation of the surrounding municipalities;
(v) cancelling one landfill site for waste disposal because of difficulty in land
acquisition; and,
(vi) extending the construction of the materials testing laboratory to include an
additional food hygiene testing laboratory.
The principal changes in the non-physical components included:
(i) merging all aspects of strategic development planning in Amman under the
GADP study umbrella; and,
3/       Project restructuring was initiated in December 1986 and was later finalized in April 1988 (with an
amendment to the Loan Agreement) after extensive discussions with MOGA to accommodate its
changed priorities.



-5-
(ii) providing for financing from the loan's technical assistance component for hands-
on training of MOGA's technical staff after the departure of the technical
advisors.   This proved to be advantageous during the redesigning and
construction of the three corridors (para. 5.1).
A list comparing the various components before and after restructuring is given in Table 5(a),
Part III.
4.       Project Desigen and Organization
4.1      To achieve the overall original objectives described above, the project was designed
as an interlocking pattern of organizational reforms, staff upgrading, and policy and procedural
innovations. These were to be supported through studies and advisory services with direct
investments in civil works and equipment components providing the leverage for the necessary
policy reforms.
4.2       The project had too many components; in some cases, physical and non-physical (
studies and technical assistance) components formed complete packages (e.g., solid waste, or
road maintenance); while in others, the components were designed to be free standing (e.g.,
major intersections, or cost accounting).  The pattern was complex and somewhat loose;
numerous covenants were devised to pin it down. Moreover, sources for financing components
within various packages also varied. For example, the solid waste package was financed from
the one source (the Loan) while the original road maintenance package was financed from
several different sources4. The intricate financing arrangement was influenced by the GOJ's
desire to use "soft" money for non-physical components where available. However, this
subsequently proved to be problematic especially when "softer" bilateral money was no longer
available as components were delayed. This added another dimension of complexity to
managing the process effectively and was one of the reasons for subsequent project restructuring.
4.3       The project was processed on an accelerated timetable, taking nine months from
identification to Board approval. This was possible because of two favorable circumstances:
GOJ gave highest priority to the intersections component, and initial commitment at MOGA was
strong. It was widely thought at the time that by responding promptly to the Government's
request, the Bank would be able to catalyze actions on a number of institutional issues related
to improving the capacity of MOGA to provide services in the future.
4.4      Because of pressures to process the project rapidly, the quantitative justifications for
a large part of the project's physical investments were based on preliminary designs and cost
estimates. As these designs were eventually subject to major changes during final engineering
4/    This situation was rectified at restructuring, the complete package of physical and soft components were
financed from one source (the Loan).



-6-
designs (paras. 5.2 and 5.3), the case for the original economic justification was weakened,
while records do not indicate any updated justifications. Many other components which were
not rigorously investigated (in terms of their justification, risk and linkages to other ongoing
works by MOGA) were cancelled at restructuring (para. 3.3).
5.       Project Implementation
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
5.1      The experience with preparing and implementing this project shows two distinct
phases: before, and after loan effectiveness. As mentioned in the preceding sections the project
was prepared at an accelerated pace with strong commitment to municipal reform across the
management hierarchy of MOGA. The second phase, however, coincided with three events
which had an adverse impact on the Project. First, the transformation of the National Planning
Council (NPC) to the Ministry of Planning (MOP) meant the loss of personal support of the
chairman of NPC. Second, the death of the Lord Mayor of Amman, under whose aegis the
project was prepared, created a need to acquaint the new administration with project objectives.
Last, the enlargement of MOGA's jurisdictional authority through the amalgamation of the
surrounding municipalities shifted the attention of the Lord Mayor and his senior staff away from
the project. As these events diluted support for the project, Jordan's economy started to decline
and new priorities emerged which were not perceived by MOGA as being consonant with project
objectives. To turn the situation around, the project was restructured.
Construction
5.2       The construction of all civil works components, as revised after project restructuring,
was satisfactorily completed. The two highly visible intersections at Sports City and Nasser
Circle were completed satisfactorily, although behind schedule (para. 5.5). The original designs
for both intersections were modified by doubling the width of underpasses from two lanes to four
lanes to accommodate future capacity and improve safety aspects. During construction, a section
of the bridge deck of the flyover at the Sports City interchange collapsed. The damage sustained
was confined and quickly repaired. Subsequent investigation revealed that the failure was caused
by lapses in construction method and supervision.
5.3      The three major corridor improvements were completed satisfactorily after resolving
initial technical problems related to less than adequate engineering designs (as part of the
institutional development objectives, the re-designs were carried out by MOGA staff with
external assistance; this took longer to achieve but helped strengthen the Design Department of
MOGA). During construction, considerable redesign effort was required as the location of
existing underground utilities was not known beforehand. This effort incurred extra costs (about
11 %) and involved lengthy delays. Also, contractors were plagued by recession, which forced
at least one of them into bankruptcy (para. 5.5(i)). Other works (the construction and equipping
of the two laboratories, the rehabilitation of the staircases and other minor works in the MOGA
workshops) were also completed and were satisfactory.



-7-
Studies and Technical Assistance
5.4       The original technical assistance package, which was divided into four sub-
components (technical advisors and staffing, engineering designs and supervision, studies and
training), was to be financed by the GOJ and bilateral donors. Advisors were recruited but their
contract periods were not extended beyond the initial contracts required by the Loan Agreement
for lack of funding. Hiring of technical staff fell short of the mark due to the difficulty of
finding qualified local staff at the civil service payscale offered by MOGA. After restructuring,
however, the Loan Agreement was amended to provide for financing additional major studies
(Road Maintenance and Cost Accounting) and other requirements deemed necessary for
augmenting MOGA's implementation capacity (hiring staff on contract basis and contracting for
advisory services).
Implementation Delays
5.5       Project implementation experienced delays from the outset (para 5.1). Virtually all
contracts experienced delays of some sort as outlined in Table 5(b), Part III.   The
implementation schedule suggested in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) (6 years) was optimistic.
Current historical implementation profiles for projects (all sectors) in Jordan generally span
about eight years. The following components incurred serious delays:
(i)  Civil works on Corridors.  The street and drainage improvements on these
major arterial roads in lower-income, south Amman neighborhoods took much
more time than envisaged. After restructuring, the scope of this component was
expanded to include comprehensive road upgrading. Consultants were retained
to assist MOGA with the in-house preparation of the requisite designs which
had to be continually adjusted to accommodate unsuspected presence of
underground utilities. Financial difficulties of the contractors brought about by
the fall in the exchange rate of the Jordanian Dinar and ensuing rise in building
materials costs (para. 5.9) added more delays.
(ii) The two Intersection Improvements. The award of the contract for the two
intersections was a political decision by the GOJ, resulting in entrusting the
Bank financed work to a weak contractor5 and thus causing delays.
(iii) Road maintenance (RM) study. This study took several years to reach the
bidding stage because of institutional difficulties mentioned in preceding
paragraphs.   When  the contract was finally  awarded  in  1989, to  a
5/    The consultants did not pre-qualify the contractor. However, the contractor was subsequently pre-qualified
by MOGA when MOGA determined that the consultant's initial pre-qualification criteria were overly
stringent. The Bank approved the application of less stringent criteria in principle, but was not given the
opportunity to review these detailed criteria before they were applied.



-8-
Jordanian/U.S. joint venture, it collided with a new regulation by the Prime
Minister concerning contract awards in foreign currency. After resolving this
problem, the contract was renegotiated and signed in October 1990, only to be
stopped because of a deteriorating political situation in the region during the
Gulf War and travel restrictions imposed on U.S. personnel to the region.
(iv) Road maintenance equipment. As a consequence of the delays in the RM study,
the procurement of the relevant equipment was affected.
(v)  Cost accounting study.  This study was the basis for introducing a cost
accounting system in MOGA's technical departments. Together with the road
maintenance study, it represented the backbone of institution-building activities
of this project. Because of internal resistance to perceived implications of this
study, it took years for MOGA to call for bids (in October 1990).
Closing Date Extensions and Completion
5.6       The closing date of the loan was extended four times, each time by one year, to
permit the completion of ongoing contracts6. At the time of the original closing date of June
1989, it was agreed that a one-year extension was sufficient to complete the three remaining
major components7. These components, together, accounted for about US$ 8.0 million in loan
funds. The second, third and fourth one-year extensions were essentially granted to complete
the road maintenance and cost accounting studies which were dragging (para 5.5). At the final
closing date, June 30, 1993, all components of the restructured project were completed except
for the procurement of a few pieces of road maintenance equipment due to shipping delays and
payment for which was effected from MOGA's own resources.
Procurement
5.7       The project encountered several procurement problems during implementation.
MOGA's tendering procedures and the Bank's review process were not fully discharged
according to provisions in the loan agreement: MOGA cancelled two rounds of bidding for the
traffic corridors without prior consultation with the Bank; procurement documents reviewed by
the Bank were found, on occasion, to diverge from International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
6/     Each of the four extensions was given with the understanding that it would be sufficient to complete all
ongoing activities.
7/     The three major components were: (i) corridors improvements; (ii) procurement of equipment for
municipal food testing (hygiene) lab; and (iii) procurement of road maintenance equipment. The first two
items were underway but the last was delayed since it could not be tendered until the road maintenance
study validated the types and quantities of equipment on MOGA's priority list. The stat of the study was
delayed by about four months (para. 5.5)



-9-
procedures (notably in foreign currency provisions); bid evaluation procedures for equipment
tenders were not in full conformity with bid documents; bid evaluation reports sent to the Bank
were incomplete to allow a thorough review of the procedure and its outcome; and, bid
evaluation reports were not sent to the Bank after being drafted by the Technical Committee but
following approval of MOGA's Tender Committee. The rectification of these problems proved
costly in time and effort. They arose largely because of insufficient knowledge of Bank
procurement procedures within the various tendering committees.  Furthermore, rigidities
imposed by standard public procurement procedures in Jordan (by added layers of review)
impeded the ability of implementing agencies to expedite the process.
5.8      Differences of opinion in the interpretation of the wording of the Loan Agreement
caused delays in the procurement of the garbage trucks. The Bank considered the contract,
which was awarded in JD, as local procurement and agreed to finance only 70 percent of goods,
although the goods were totally imported from abroad and were free of customs duty. The
component had to be re-bid.
5.9      Specifications and bills of quantities prepared by MOGA tended to be more
aggregated8 (although not contrary to the existing practice in Jordan) than accepted under
international practice. The Bank's position was to dis-aggregate the bill of quantities as much
as practical to insure that competition was not hindered and unit prices were not distorted by
uncertainties in the amount of work to be done. This was of particular importance in the three
corridors contracts, where there was higher uncertainty associated with unknown underground
conditions.
5.10     A sharp fall in JD exchange rate in 1988 along with acute shortages of local
counterpart funds resulted in delaying payments of local portion of invoices submitted by
contractors. At the same time inflationary pressures were pushing building materials prices up
causing contractors additional difficulties. Several equipment tenders, bid in JDs, were cancelled
by suppliers and had to be re-tendered. Subsequently, the GOJ issued a decree ordering an
upward across-the-board adjustment of ongoing contracts to reflect the increased prices in
building materials.
Project Cost and Disbursement
5.11     Without taking into consideration the impact of changes that occurred in the scope
of the project, the total cost estimated at JD 23.4 million during appraisal increased to JD 24.6
million, or an overrun of about 5 percent. The total expenditure in US dollars, on the other
hand, decreased from the appraisal estimate of US$ 65.6 million to US$ 40.8 million, or an
8/    Several items would be loaded and priced under one main unit item (e.g. the price of I meter of sidewalk
would contain many other items priced within it).



-10-
underrun of about 38 percent, mainly due to the depreciation in the rate of exchange of the
Jordanian Dinar relative to the U.S. Dollar.
5.12      In order to provide a meaningful comparison of costs, readjustments to the appraisal
estimates were introduced to reflect the impact of changes that took place in the scope of work
during the period of project implementation, i.e. cancellation of portions of the Traffic
Improvements, Traffic Enforcement and Institutional Development components; and increases
in the scope of work at two intersections, the three Corridors and the Solid Waste components.
The adjusted costs in Table 1 indicate an increase of JD 4.0 million, or about 20 percent, of
actual over appraised costs, mainly attributed to the change in the rate of exchange of the
Jordanian Dinar, which was devalued, over the duration of the project. The adjusted costs in
terms of US$ decreased by US$ 4.0 million, or about 9 percent.
5.13      The disbursement of the loan took about twice as long as anticipated at appraisal
(Table 3, Part III). By the original closing date of June 1989, only about 54 percent of the loan
proceeds had been drawn down. At the request of the government, an amount of US$ 5.0
million was cancelled on August 20, 1987 (para 3.3). At the end of the 4-month grace period
beyond the final closing date of June 30, 1993 an amount of US$ 1.08 million remained
undisbursed and was cancelled. However, the loan was reopened in February 1994 to effect an
outstanding payment of US$ 25,900 covered by a special commitment. Only US$ 23.92 million
of the original loan amount of US$ 30.0 million, or about 80 percent, was finally disbursed.
Table 1: Cost Adjustments due to change in scope of works
(in nominal million currency units)
Appraisal Estimate  Actual
JD      US$     JD      US$
Appraisal and actual costs  23.36    65.61    24.55  40.80
Net adjustments to:
Cancellations from Project   -7.39   -20.77
Additions to Project  +4.56    -0.03
Adjusted Costs         20.53    44.82    24.55  40.80
Audits and Reporting
5.14      The loan and project agreements, as amended, required MOGA to provide the Bank
with annual audits of its accounts as well as quarterly implementation reports. During the early
stages of implementation the financial data supplied did not conform to the format nor the
content specified in the agreements. Likewise, progress reports were short of disclosing the full
range of information on implementation. The situation, however, improved later as advisors
(financial and technical) came on board.



6.        Project Results
6.1       All components of the project, as restructured, were satisfactorily completed and are
functioning well, including the components that were cancelled from the loan but completed on
MOGA's own resources (para. 3.3). A list of the components implemented under the project
is included in Table 5(b), Part III.
6.2       Of the studies supported under the project, the Cost Accounting study was completed
but its application has been very slow because of the need for more trained staff and equipment.
The Road Maintenance study was completed, procurement of the recommended equipment was
also completed, and MOGA has started implementing its recommendations on the institutional
set-up. However, the installation of the maintenance management model in MOGA's Central
Maintenance Department proved infeasible without further investments in computer hardware
in order to connect field divisions with the central department. The GADP study was also
completed after considerable effort by a joint team form MOGA and its consultants. It came
up with several important recommendations of which the parts related to transport were accepted
and are being implemented, while the section on zoning was not approved by the concerned
authorities.
7.        Economic Re-Evaluation and Rates of Return
7.1       A full ex-post calculation of the economic rates of return (ERR) of the project as it
was implemented would require an extensive empirical study to collect data and carry out a
comprehensive analysis of the actual situation with what would have prevailed without the
project. No such extensive data collection and analysis could be carried out for the purpose of
this PCR9. The following re-evaluation, therefore, is limited only to the implemented major
transport components financed by the loan and for which an ERR was calculated in the SAR (the
two interchanges and the traffic corridors). The re-evaluation analysis was carried out using the
same assumptions and data input used in the SAR, however, the costs were modified to reflect
actual costs. The re-evaluation analysis shows that the project components under consideration
have yielded returns below those in the SAR; the ex-post return for the two interchanges (Sports
City and Nasser Circle) and the corridors improvements were estimated to be 33 percent and 8
percent respectively'°. Major design changes after the fact, particularly, the addition of two
more lanes to the underpasses in each of the two interchanges and the major expansion of
storm/sewerage system in the three corridors have increased costs thus lowering the ex-post
ERR estimates.
9/     MOGA conducted a limited scope traffic survey in August 1991, for some of the completed components.
10/   Findings of the limited traffic survey mentioned under footnote (8) provide some credence to the ex-post
ERRs for the two intersections since actual non-peak traffic volumes observed and the corresponding
projections used in the SAR for 1991 were within 2-5% of each other. However, actual non-peak traffic
volume observed on AL Quds Street (Corridor 2) was 9% higher than projected in the SAR for that year,
implying that the ex-post ERR for the corridors under-estimates the benefits.



-12-
7.2      Other components for which no ex-post ERRs" were estimated included the Solid
Waste Collection and Disposal and the Food Hygiene Laboratory which are expected to yield
economic benefits, although not readily quantifiable, in the form of improved health and
environment to the general population of Greater Amman.
8.       Impact and Sustainability of the Project
8.1      The impact of this project is felt by the all the residents of Greater Amman in terms
of improved solid waste collection and disposal, safer food supplies and reduced traffic
congestion in strategic areas within the road network. The operations of the solid waste
department, with overall responsibility for the delivery and management of the solid waste
collection and disposal in Amman, have been markedly improved since the implementation of
the project: garbage collection from central locations is carried out on a daily basis (800-1200
ton), and disposal sites are adequately managed and continually monitored to detect early any
potential adverse effects to the ground water. The solid waste disposal system was extremely
successful and can serve as a model for other countries in the region.  The successful
implementation of an effective method for collection of user charges for the solid waste system
(included in electricity bills) has prompted MOGA to explore other further improvements.
MOGA is also currently considering testing the possibility of privatization of the waste collection
system. A trial area was selected, the Abdali district, because of its mixed land use properties
(high and low-income residential and commercial). Furthermore, the hygiene laboratory has
been performing well and is generating enough revenues'2 to cover operations and maintenance
costs and part of the capital costs.
8.2       The major improvements to the three traffic corridors in southern Amman have, in
many ways, improved the living and safety conditions of many of the area residents. Since the
improvements, business activity in the area has flourished as a direct result of reduced seasonal
flooding and easier traffic (both vehicular and pedestrian) circulation and parking.   The
construction of the interchanges at Sports City and Nasser Circle have reduced overall waiting
times during peak hours (by an average of 1.5 minutes per vehicle according to the 1991 traffic
survey by MOGA) while accommodating increased traffic volumes (estimated at about 5 % per
annum). A substantial reduction (about 98 percent between 1984 and 1990) in the number of
accidents at both intersections was also observed.
8.3      Other positive steps towards more sustainable impact include: (i) a recent
reorganization at MOGA (July 1992) where the role of Technical Advisor to the Lord Mayor
was upgraded into a management position, akin to that of a conventional City Engineer, a move
that will allow MOGA's top management to concentrate on strategic planning and policy issues;
(ii) improvements to MOGA's workshops have increased the deployment rate of MOGA's assets
II/   No ERR estimates were calculated in the SAR for these components.
12/   The Laboratory generated JD 70,000 revenues (in excess of salaries of the staff) in the Ist half of 1993.



-13-
(e.g. shorter down-time as well as more efficient usage of equipment); and (iii) a growing
revenue stream from diverse sources growing at about 12 percent annually over the last 12 years
with surpluses building up".
9.       Bank Performance
9.1      In the desire to achieve many objectives, the project was made excessively complex
without assessment in sufficient detail of the absorptive and implementation capacity of MOGA.
The Bank was, therefore, overly optimistic in expecting that significant changes would be made
in MOGA through this project, which represented but a small part of MOGA's broader agenda
of objectives and activities.
9.2       The Bank overestimated the capabilities of MOGA to implement and coordinate a
complex multi-component project, and did not devote the necessary intensive supervision: Bank
supervision efforts and missions were inadequate, especially when compared to the considerable
efforts expended processing the loan and subsequently launching the project. However, after
restructuring the Bank demonstrated more flexibility to the changing priorities of MOGA and
also took on a more active role in supervision. The Bank supervision missions were well staffed
with technical specialists but lacked the participation of financial analysts. Detailed cost analysis
conducted by such a person on frequent basis would have eliminated many uncertainties reported
over the financial status of the project in addition to training MOGA's staff in such procedures.
A financial analyst would have also been useful in monitoring early steps in the annual
accounting cycle to reduce the likelihood of the frequent delays experienced in audits.
10.      Borrower Performance
10.1     The Borrower's performance was also mixed. The implementation of the project
suffered considerable delays from the outset: changed priorities, lack of clarity of the project
objectives. Successive changes in MOGA's management and frequent staff turnover were
somewhat disruptive.
11.      Bank - Borrower Relationship
11.1     The relationship between the Bank's missions and the GOJ and MOGA remained
frank but cordial. MOGA endeavored to provide the Bank with as much requested information
as possible.
12.      Consulting Services
12.1     The project relied on the inputs provided by several consultants for conducting
studies, and for the design and supervision of the various project components. The consultants
13/   Part of the surplus build up is related to a halt on major capital spending in response to instructions by the
Prime Minister two years ago to halt unessential public capital spending.



-14-
included foreign and local firms as well as individual expatriates and local specialists who were
employed by the various implementing agencies to strengthen their in-house capabilities. All
the project consultants provided good services throughout project implementation. However,
technical advisors on contract basis who were funded by bilateral donors, received mixed
reviews from MOGA.
13.      Project Documentation and Data
13.1     The SAR was comprehensive. Early progress reports and Bank mission reports
lacked specificity, however, later ones improved, but lacked any systematic updating to the
monitoring indicators outlined in the SAR.
13.2      The data needed to prepare this report were difficult to collect because of the length
of time which elapsed since project preparation; frequent changes in components to be financed
under the loan; and the numerous yet dis-aggregated information systems where data relating to
various aspects of the project were maintained. Moreover, the project files were poorly
organized and often incomplete. Project expenditures although updated regularly by mission
members bore little relation to the information kept by Bank's central operations procurement
systems or MOGA's own account reporting thus making the reconciliation of project accounts
an onerous task'4.
14.      Status of Covenants
14.1     All covenants were complied with or under implementation at the closing of the loan.
However, covenants relating to audits were subject to frequent delays.
15.      Lessons Learned
15.1     In retrospect, it seems that the project was unduly complex, making it harder to
manage and coordinate by the implementing agency. Exogenous factors further exacerbated this
situation. The following are specific lessons, which emerged from the experience of this project
although many others are scattered within the body of the report:
- Avoid complex projects with too many components when the implementing
agency has limited executing capacity. The Bank should also endeavor to ensure
that project objectives have the full support of the Borrower and its implementing
agency. The positive experience of the Solid Waste components reinforces this
point.
- The Bank should appraise projects based on final engineering designs. Also,
significant design changes should be subject to rigorous economic justification.
14/   Discrepancies were largely the result of different exchange rates used by various entities to record project
transactions throughout the life of the project.



-15-
The Bank should assess, as part of the appraisal process, the need to organize a
project launch workshop in order to familiarize the staff of the implementing
agency with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and how these
procedures assimilate to national ones. Moreover, these workshops should be
tailored to the specific needs of the sector/project.
Bank supervision missions should have an adequate skill-mix.
Data collected and retained on the project by various entities (within and outside
the Bank) seemed like "information islands": unreconcilable and often ineffective
in monitoring aspects of loan supervision and administration.  It would be
worthwhile to investigate comprehensively means of improving the management
and dissemination of project related information Bank-wide.



-16-
HASHEMfiTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
By The Municipality of Greater Amman (MOGA)
(LOAN NO. 2334-JO)
The Borrower did not provide Part II.



-17-
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2334-JO)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title      Purpose of Project(s)                     Approval       Status        Comments
Urban Transport
Cr. 262-JO       *Construction of a highway from Amman       1971          Closed       The project was successful in constructing
(US$ 6.3 M)        to Zarqa.                                               12/76        the highway serving the high traffic
Highway          *Provision of road maintenance equipment.                              Amman- Zarqa corridor.
Project          *Improvement to future land use and related
transport pattems of the Amman area.
Urban Sector in General
A series of urban development projects:
*Ln. 1893-JO -   To initiate and spread nationwide an        1980         -Closed       These projects have successfully
(US$ 21.0 M);   altemative approach to the provision of                   06/89;        demonstrated the new approach. The sector
*Ln. 2587-JO -   adequate and affordable shelter to the urban   1985      -Closed       has consequently been reorganized with
(US$28.0 M);   lowest income groups. The broad                            06/93;        major policy change by the govemment to
and              objectives were to create conditions                                   withdraw from future public housing
*Ln. 2841-JO) -  whereby these groups could help             1987          -Ongoing     projects.
(US$ 26.4 M)    themselves at their own pace without
subsidy.
A series of urban water supply and sewerage projects:
*Cr. 385-JO -    These projects, in general, have been part    1973       -Closed       Water supply and sewerage services have
(US$8.7 M);      of the Govemment's high priority program                 06/78;        shown considerable improvement over the
*Cr. 780-JO -    to improve the water supply and sewerage    1978         *Closed       years although still facing high water losses
(US$ 14.0 M);   services in Jordan and urban areas in                      06/83;       and shortages. A newly created Ministry of
*Ln. 2213-JO -   particular, as well as substantially targeting    1982   -Closed       Water and Irrigation reflects the high level
(US$ 17.0 M);   institutional capacity to improve overall                 06/89;        of importance attached to this sector.
*Ln. 2425-JO -   performance.                                1984          *Closed
(US$ 30.0 M)*                                                             06/90;
*Ln. 2483-JO -                                               1985         -Closed
(US$ 30.0 M);                                                              12/92;
and
*Ln. 2694-JO -                                               1986         -Ongoing
(US$ 50.0 M)
Source: ECA/MENA Information Center and various Project Completion Reports



-18-
Table 2: Project Timetable
Iterm                                              Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Date                     Date                     Date
Identification                                     10/82                                             10/82
Preparation/Pre-appraisal                          11/82                                             11/82
Appraisal                                          01/83                                             01/83
Loan Negotiations                                 03/83                     05/83                    05/83
Board PresentationlApproval                       05/83                     06/83                    07/83
Loan Signature                                                                                       07/83
Loan EFffectiveness                                11/83                    02/84                    03/84
Loan Closing                                      06/89                     06/90
06/91
06/92
06/93                    06/93
Source: Project Files



-19-
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS millions)
Appraisal Estimate                                      Actual
Semester
Ending         Disbursed         Cumulative         Percentage        Disbursed       Cumulative     Percentage
06/84            0.90               0.90                3.10            0.00             0.00           0.00
12/84            2.40               3.30               11.00            0.00             0.00           0.00
06/85            4.2                7.50               25.00            2.41             2.41          10.10
12/85            3.90              11.40              38.00             0.00             2.41          10.10
06/86            3.90              15.30               51.00             1.97            4.38          18.30
12/86            4.50              19.80              66.00             0.74             5.12          21.40
06/87            4.20              24.00               80.00             1.40            6.52          27.30
12/87            2.40              26.40              88.00             1.59             8.11          33.90
06/88            2.10              28.50               95.00             1.47             9.58         40.10
12/88            1.50              30.00             100.00             1.32             10.90         45,60
06/89                                                                   2.01             12.91         54.00
12/89                                                                   1.39             14.30         59.80
06/90                                                                   0.21             14.51         60.70
12/90                                                                   4.02             18.53         77.50
06/91                                                                   0.70             19.23         80.40
12/91                                                                   0.27             19.50         81.50
06/92                                                                   0.20             19.70         82.40
12/92                                                                   1.18            20.88          87.30
06/93                                                                    1.86            22.74         95.10
12/93                                                                   1.15            23.89          99.90
06/94"'                                                                 0.03             23.92(2)      100.00
ource: Project Files and MIS data as of 02/16/94
NOTES:
(1) Loan account reopened for the purpose of making an eligible payment in the amount of US$ 25,900.
(2) Undisbursed balance of US$ 1,076,874.49 will be cancelled.



-20-
Table 3: Loan Disbursements (continued)
Estimated vs. Actual Disbursemeni
30 -
25-
T   20 -                                                                            ........ ..
A    15  ->'                                                   ........
1    -.
5
0           I I I I,,                I         ,      *     I I I I,I               *     I .W  |.  
5   ..........-..                                              || !|     | San   .t 
t      Xo a    
nS        Un Ca1              E1   n - D C C  m  3 3                          C c
SR mia



-21-
Table 4: Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant      Subject                                       Compliance              Status
Loan Agreement - Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (07/28/83)
LA 4.03(a)    Amman Municipality to implement procedures     12/84                  Met in 06/87. Solid waste charges
for collection of solid waste charges.                               included in electricity bills.
LA 4.03(b)    Solid waste charges to recover costs.         01/86                   Fee doubled to JD/12/HH/YR in 12/84.
Household charges now cover 0 & M but
not investment cost.
Amending Agreement - Municipality of Amman (01/23/1988)
AA 1.02       Municipality to prepare financial forecast for  01/87                 Actual compliance 12/87.
each year by November of previous year.
AA 2.02 (a)   Amman Municipality to establish and maintain   10/83                  Met in 03/89.
staff of PCTU.
AA 2.02 (b)   Amman Municipality to establish and maintain   12/83                  Met in 09/83.
solid waste department.
AA 2.05 (a)   Amman Municipality to implement cost          05/88                   Implementation of cost accounting
accounting in technical department.                                   commenced 03/91 and is still continuing.
AA 2.05 (b)   Amman Municipality to carry out study of       12/87                  Met in 07/87.
municipal vehicle fleet of vehicle management
system.
AA 2.07       Amman Municipality to maintain appropriate                            Compliance O.K.
project related accounts.
AA 2.08       Amman Municipality to forward audited         05/88                   Complied with.
accounts within six months of end FY
Source: Project Files



-22-
Table 5a: Project Components
List of project components in original Loan Agreement, May 1983   List of project components after project restructuring,
April 1987
1.   Transport and Traffic Components                          1.  Transport and Traffic Components:
1. Major Intersection Improvements                            1. Major Intersection Improvements
(a) Nasser Circle                                            (a) Nasser Circle
(b) Sport City                                              (b) Sport City
(c) Nasr Interchange
(d) Third Circle
2. Traffic Improvement Measures                               2. Traffic Improvement Measures
(a) Central Business District                                 (a) Improvements of two main radial street (Misdar and
(b) Corridor Improvements                                         El Quds)
(c) Rehabilitation of Staircases                              (b) Rehabilitation of Staircases
(d) Rehabilitation and Improvement to 3 Access Roads          (c) Rehabilitation of access roads to low income
to low income areas                                          areas.
(e) Improvement of 5 Isolated Junctions                       (d) Provision of building and equipment for the traffic
(f) Provision of equipment for traffic sign workshop              sign workshop.
(g) T.A.                                                      (e) T.A.
3. Feasibility and Design Studies for Medium-term major       3. Feasibility and Design studies for additional arterial roads
highway investments.
11.   Municipality's Technical Departments:                    11. Municipality's Technical Departments:
1. Development and implementation of a cost                   1. Development and implementation of a cost accounting
accounting system.                                          system
2. Improvements to workshops.                                 2. Improvements to workshops.
3. A 2-year pilot road maintenance program.                   3. Studies to improve road maintenance of management of
4. Strengthening technical Departments through:                   vehicles.
(a) T.A.                                                  4. Strengthening Municipalities technical functions through:
(b) Provision of road maintenance equipment and               (a) TA.
laboratory.                                              (b) Provision of hygiene testing lab.
(c) Provision of technical literature.
111.  Solid Waste Collection and Disposal:                     111. Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
1. Provision of collection equipment.                         I. Provision of collection equipment.
2. Construction and Equipping of 4 sanitary landfills.        2. Construction and equipping of 3 sanitary landfills.
3. Studies to increase efficiency of waste disposal practices  3. Study of measures to increase efficiency of waste disposal
and procedures.                                               practices and procedures.
IV.  Institutional Development                                 IV. Institutional Development
1. Preparation of 20-year Strategy Plan for Amman.            1. Preparation of Greater Amman Development Study.
2. Preparation of 6-year Public Investment Program in         2. Preparation of a 5-year investment program in Amman.
Amman.                                                    3. Technical Assistance.
3. Technical Assistance.                                      4. Training Programs.
4. Training Programs.



-23-
Table Sb: Project Implementation
Description                                                     Commencement                Completion
Remarks
SAR         Actual        SAR         Actual
MAJOR INTERSECTIONS
Sports City                                            06/84         07/85         03/86        10/88       Contract
Ministry of Interior (Nasser Circle)                   06/84         07/85         06/85        10/88
CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
Corridor No. 1                                         03/84         09/88         06/86        11 /92
Corridor No. 2                                         01/85         09/88         06/87        11 /90
Corridor No. 3                                         03/84         09/88         06/86       09/91
SANITARY LANDFILLS
Russeifa                                               09/84         06/88         02/86       02/89
Al-Salt                                                09/84         06/88         02/86       03/90
Marka                                                   10/84        02/89         11/86       06/93        Closure
Test Pit                                                             03/92         N/A          10/92
STAIRCASES                                                 06/84         12/85         11/86       07/88
TRAFFIC SIGN WORKSHOP                                      01/84         11/88         12/84       03/90
LABORATORY BUILDING
Civil Works                                            01/84         07188         06/84        12/89
Equipment                                              02/84         02/89         02/85       03/92
Furniture                                              N/A           05/90         N/A         01/92
ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUJIPMENT
Package No. 1                                          09/84         10/91         09/85       06/93
Package No. 2                                          N/A           03/93         N/A         06/93        Closure
Asphalt Batching Plant                                 N/A           10/91         N/A         06/93        Closure
STUJDIES
Greater Amman Dev. Plan                                N/A           01/85         N/A          12/88       Contract
Roan Maintenance Study                                 06/84         03/91         03/86       02/93
Cost Accounting Study                                  N/A           02/91         N/A         08/92
Source: MOGA/SAR
NIA: Not applicable or data not available
NOTES:
(1) Contract indicates date of signature of contract.
(2) Closure indicates the Loan Closing Date with some ongoing work.



-24-
Table 6: Appraisal and Actual Cost
(all values in million currency units)
Appraisal Estimate       Restructured Project            Actual
(April 1987)              (June 1993)
Total Cost   Total Cost   Total Cost   Total Cost   Total Cost   Total Cost
(JD)       (USS)^2'       (JD)       (US$)(,)      (JD)         (Us$)"
Active Components"')
Major Intersections
Sports City & Nasser Circle          9.92         27.87        7.29          15.92       7.99          15.97
Traffic Improvements
Corridors 1, 2, and 3                1.57         4.42         3.30          7.20        3.89          5.78
Staircases                           0.30         0.85         0.25         0.53         0.24          0.66
Municipality's Technical Departments
Road Maintenance Study               0.09         0.25         0.45         0.98         0.05          0.15
Road Maintenance Equipment           0.35         0.98         2.72         5.93         4.66          6.64
Improvements to Workshops            0.11         0.31         0.13         0.28         0.14          0.35
Sign Workshop                        0.01         0.04         0.13         0.28         0.17          0.25
Quality Control                      0.13         0.35         0.62          1.35         1.10         1.63
Cost Accounting Study                0.03         0.07         0.05          0.11        0.05          0.07
Solid Waste Management
Equipment                            1.68         4.73         3.44         7.52         2.24          2.87
Disposal Sites                       1.15         3.22         0.10         0.22         0.14          0.26
Solid Waste Study                    0.04         0.11         0.04         0.09         0.05          0.06
GADP Study                             0.59          1.65        0.64          1.39         1.14         1.90
Additional Components (at restructuring):
Hygiene Testing Lab                                            0.38         0.84         0.99          2.04
Solid Waste Equipment                                           1.00        2.18          1.70         2.17
Total Active Components   15.97       44.85        20.53        44.82        24.55         40.80
Inactive Comonen&5)
Major Intersection                     0.99         2.79
Traffic Improvements                   3.04          8.55
Municipality's Technical Departments    1.66        4.68
Arterial Roads Study                    1.17        3.27
Reclamation of Marka Landfill          0.14         0.40         0.14         0.31
Technical Assistance & Training        0.39          1.08
Total Inactive Components   7.39        20.77        0.14         0.31         0.00         0.00
GRAND TOTAL   23.36            65.61        20.67        45.12        24.55         40.80
ource: SAR, Project Files and MOGA
NOTES:
(I) Data was collected from several sources which were not reconcilable.
(2) Converted at an average exchange rate of US$2.81/JD.
(3) Converted at an average exchange rate of US$2.18/JD.
(4) Converted at the exchange rate at the dates of transactions.
(5) Some components under this heading were completed by MOGA's own resources outside this project.



-25-
Table 7a: Appraisal and Actual Proiect Funding
(all values in million currency units)
Govemment Expenditures      Bank Expenditures        Total Expenditures
Appraisal    Actual      Appraisal     Actual     Appraisal      Actual
Estimate                 Estimate                 Estimate
(US$)       (US$)        (US$)        (USS)       (US$)        (US$)
Active Components("l
Major Intersections
Sports City & Nasser Circle         14.96        9.29         12.91       6.68         27.87        15.97
Traffic Improvements
Corridors 1,2 and 3                 2.31         203         2.11         3.75         4.42         5.78
Staircases                          0.42         0.32        0.43         0.34         0.85         0.66
Municipality's Technical Departments
Road Maintenance Study              0.25         0.04        0.00         0.11         0.25         0.15
Road Maintenance Equipment          0.02         1.24        0.96         5.4          0.98         6.64
Improvements to Workshops           0.21         0.05        0.1          0.3          0.31         0.35
Sign Workshop                       0.04         0.00        0.00         0.25         0.04         0.25
Quality Control                     0.35         0.70        0.00         0.93         0.35         1.63
Cost Accounting Study               0.07         0.00        0.00         0.07         0.07        0.07
Solid Waste Management
Equipment                           0.03         0.00        4.7          2.87         4.73        2.87
Disposal Sites                      1.76         0.06         1.46        0.2          3.22        0.26
Solid Waste Study                   0.11         0.06        0.00         0.00         0.11        0.06
GADP Study                            1.65         1.90        0.00         0.00         1.65         1.90
Additional Components (at restructuring):
Hygiene Testing Lab                              1.20                     0.84         0.00        2.04
Solid Waste Equipment                            0.00                     2.17         0.00        2.17
Total Active Components  22.18       16.89        22.67       23.91        44.85        40.80
Inactive Components"2'
Major Intersections                   1.49                      1.3                      2.79
Traffic Improvements                  4.52                     4.03                      8.55
Municipality's Technical Departments  2.64                     2.04                      4.68
Arterial Roads Study                  3.27                     0.00                      3.27
Reclamation of Marka Landfill         0.40                     0.00                      0.40
Technical Assistance & Training       1.08                     0.00                      1.08
Total Inactive Components   13.40     0.00         7.37         0.00        20.77        0.00
GRAND TOTAL   35.57           16.89        30.04       23.91        65.61        40.80
ource: SAR, Project Files and MOGA.
NOTES:
(I)   Data was collected from several sources which were not reconcilable.
(2)   Some components under this heading were completed by MOGA's own resources outside this project.



-26-
Table 7b: Appraisal and Actual Project Financing (continued)
SUMMARY OF BANK EXPENDITURES
(all values in million currency units)
Original Loan Agreement         Amended Loan Agreement            Actual
Category                                                  (07/83 - 01/88)                  (01/88 - 06/93)
(US$)           (%)(')          (US$)            (%)(")          (US$)
1. Works"'2                                            18.10            50             12.00             50              2.56
I-A Works for Ilart A                                  0.90             50                                               0.00
I-B Works for all other Parts                                                                                            8.65
Subtotal       19.00                            12.00                            11.21
2. Goods"'                                             7.00            l00--                                             2.41
2-A  (ioods for Part C                                                                  2.50            io00)            4.73
2-B  Gioods for Part 13                                  .                              5.30             l00(4)          4.17
2-C  Goods for Other Parts                                                              1.20            I 00e4           1.04
Subtotal       7.00                             9.00                             12.35
3, Consultants                                                                          0.50             100             0.36
4. Un-allocated                                        4.00                             3.50                             0.00
5. Cancellations                                                                        5.00                             6.08
GRAND  IO()TAI.         30.00                            30.00                            30.00
Source: Project Files
According to Schedule 2 of the original l.oan Agreement (07/28/83):
Part A: Iransport and Traffic
lPart B: Solid Waste C'ollection and [lisposal
According to Schedule 2 ol the Amended Project/l.oan Agreement (01/23/88):
Part A: TIransport and [rafleic
Part 13: Solid Waste Collection and D)isposal
Part C: Municipality's: TIechnical Departments
Plart D): Institutional Development
NOII.S:
(I )   P'ercentage of expendituire to be financed by the loan.
(2)   Refers to all works other than Part A in the original Loan Agreement.
(3)   Refkrs to goods under all lParts in the original l oan Agreement.
(4)   100"% of fo reign expenditure: 100% of local expenditure ex-factory; and 70% of local expenditure for other items procured locally.



-27-
Table 8a: Rate of Retum for the Two Intersections at Sports City and Nasser Circle
(all values in JD million in 1983 prices)
Year               SAR's Estimated Net Benefit Flows              Estimated Net Benefit
(using estimated costs)                         Flows
(using Actual Costs for
Sports City    Nasser Circle      Combined           both intersections)
0            (1.71)           (2.35)           (4.06)           (1.94)
l            (0.92)           (1.70)           (2.62)          (1.97)
2            I.91             2.26             4.17             (1.99)
3            2.02             2.16             4.18            (1.83)
4            2.13             2.07             4.20             4.20
5            2.25             1.98             4.23             4.23
6            2.38             1.90             4.28             4.28
7            2.51             1.82             4.33             4.33
8            2.65             1.74             4.39             4.39
9            2.80             1.67             4.47             4.47
10           2.95             1.60             4.55            4.55
11           3.12             1.53             4.65            4.65
12                                                             4.75
13                                                             4.86
ERR (%)    58                 40               48              33
NOTES:
(I)   This analysis has the same data and assumptions listed in SAR except that costs are modified to reflect actual costs.
(2)   The design of the two intersections was modified to include two additional lanes for each underpass. However the impact of the
additional lanes is reflected in the costs but not in the benefits (since this is not readily quantifiable).
(3)   Actual Costs are spread equally over the construction period.
(4)   Taxes were excluded from actual costs (using same assumptions in SAR calculation)
(5)   Benefit streams accrue after 10 years following completion of construction.



-28-
Table 8b: Rate of Return for the Road Corridors (Misdar and Al Ouds Streets)(")
(all values in JD thousands in 1983 prices)
Year                     SAR's Estimated Net Benefit Flows                   Estimated Net
(using estimated costs)                      Benefit Flows
(using Actual Costs
Misdar Street      Al Quds Street         Combined         for both corridors)
(Corridor 3)     (Corridors I & 2)
0            (168)               (88)                 (256)               (898)
l            (276)               (105)               (381)                (738)
2            573                  92                  665                 (692)
3            529                  131                 660                 (649)
4            487                  195                 682                 682
5            477                 307                  784                 784
6            327                 521                  848                 848
7                                                                         917
8                                                                         992
ERR (%)    86                    61                   77                  8
ource  SAR; and MOGA
NOTES:
(I) The Al Quds Street was split up into two contracts: Corridors I & 2.
(2) This analysis uses the same assumptions as in SAR except that costs are modified to reflect actual costs.
(3) The design of the two corridors was expanded to include major drainage structures.
(4) Actual costs are spread equally over the construction period.
(5) Taxes were excluded from actual costs (using same assumption in SAR).
(6) Benefit streams accrue for 5 years following completion of construction.



-29-
Table 9: Mission Data
Type of Mission                                   Mon/Yr  # of Persons   Days in Field Performance Rating Types of Problems
A- Up to Appraisal
Reconnaissance'                                   06/81     2             28(2)         N/A
Identification                                    10/82    4               14           N/A
Preparation                                       11/82    3               10           N/A
B- Appraisal to Board Approval
Appraisal                                         01/83    5              21            N/A
Post Appraisal                                    04/83    3              6             N/A
C- Board Approval to Effectiveness
Supervision I (prior to effectiveness)            10/83    3                O)
D- Effectiveness to Completion
Supervision II                                    03/84    5              8             1
Supervision III                                   08/84    1              -(3)          N/A
Supervision IV                                    07/84    1              6(2)          NIA
Supervision V                                     10/84    4              5             2                   M,Pr
Supervision VI                                    04/85    2              3             2                   M,Pr
Supervision VII                                   09/85    3               14           2                   M,P,T,Pr
Supervision VIII                                  03/86    1              -3)           2                   M,P,T,Pr
Supervision IX                                    06/86    2              6             3                   M,P,T,Pr,l
Supervision X (Restructuring)                     12/86    4               14           3                   M,P,T,l,Pr
Supervision XI                                    07/87    5              9             2                   M,P,T,I,Pr
Supervision XII                                   09/87    3              8             2                   M,T,Pr
Supervision XIII                                  06/88    2               11           2                   M,I,Pr
Supervision XIV                                   11/88     1             9             2                   M,I,Pr,F
Supervision XV                                    06/89     1             6             3                   I,F
Supervision XVI                                   02190    2               10           2                   M,J
Supervision XVII                                  06/90    1              9             2                   M,l
Supervision XVIII                                 06/91    2              9             2                   M,l
Supervision XIX                                   02/92     1             6             2                   M,l,
Supervision XX                                    07/92     1             5             2                   M,I,Pr
Supervision XXI                                   02/93     1             7             2                   I,Pr
Supervision XXII (Completion)                     07/93    2               11           2                   NIA
Source: Project Files
M: Managerial; P: Political: 1: Institutional; T: Technical; Pr: Procurement; F: Local Funding; N/A: Not Applicable or Available.
NOTES:
(I)   Management Trip.
(2)   Included several countries/projects.
(3)   Data not available. Project files had incomplete data.






BERD 25756R
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPLETED COMPONENTS
<  '.    .'          ~~~AIN AL EAHA          ,A  NUSEIR?                                                Z A  R  QA\,
-- - - -   J      X /                                    s          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  0 V E R N  O  R A  T E  zA*Q  (                      33935 FOIC COME3EE8E5
LANDFI'  5STE H                   \A2OE INTERSECTIOS MEAOVEMENTS
O    HYGEENE LBETR
R A L CD A              \ *              '4 ' i't                                                                                                                           ObH>
rA L A-I O)
-   RBAN AREA5 S   159 l7
G  OVThNOETE BOd'.T48 ES
>---) . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST k2/E ULSEIF  VD)5EVR
NlAHIS *'i\      OE10AEEUDFE
/   _ #   \  b l    E    ril d            o     n      O     /l           /~~~~~~~~~                  ~ A M M  A  N 
_   -              ./ -ADIESSo,                                    t             --g                                              GOVERNORATE
Ia   _,   , -'                                                                                4/        t     WRS0 
UMARU AL                                         J 
- /2 NA'UR /   ;    \           /          /          X    aSA
Al KI.,he
JUN~E I-'






IBRD 25758R
ROFDAN
~'ra-                                                                                           AMMAN TRANSPORT AND
7Vk
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
LOCATION  OF STAIRCASE IMPROVEMENTS
N                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N
4            ~~~CENTRAL AMMAN
_____                                  ~~~~~~         ~~~~    ~~~~0 300    600  900
I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
-  /  -                  ~~~~~~~~Staircases Improved
-~~~~~                  * ~~~~~~ National Capital
-4.~~~~~~h.  pd                    r~Th W d il
~~~   ¶ ~~~~~~~~    I ~~~~~~~dpt-                                       ;:-
A~ ~~~~~   -  -z



