Document of                                  Ft L
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4413-JO
,STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 17, 1983
FIllE COPY
EMENA Region
Urban Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Jordanian Dinar (JD) = US$2.81
1 US Dollar ($)         = JD  .356
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)          =  .62 miles (mi)
1 Hectare (ha)            =  10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
1 Acre                       4047 m2 or .405 ha.
1 Liter per capita
per day (lcd)           =  .264 US gallon per capita per day (gpcd)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AM                   - Amman Municipality
ARTS                 - Amman Region Transportation Study
CBD                  - Central Business District
CVDB                 - Cities and Villages Development Bank
ED                   - Engineering Department
JEPCO                - Jordan Electric Power Company
M&ED                 - Mechanical and Electrical Department
MMRA                 - Ministry of Municipalities and Rural
Affairs and the Environment
MPW                  - Ministry of Public Works
Ml                   - Ministry of Transport
NPC                  - National Planning Council
NRA                  - Natural Resources Authority
ODA                  - Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PCTU                 - Project Coordination and Training Unit
PTC                  - Public Transport Corporation-
RSS                  - Royal Scientific Society
SD                  - Studies Department
SWHD                 - Solid Waste Management Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
-1i-



FOR OFFICI[AL USE ONLY
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ....... e ..................................         1
II.   BACKGROUND. 
A.   Urban Development in Jordan ......................           1
B.  Bank Group Role and Strategy.                                 2
C. Project Area .                       .                         3
1. Government Institutions ..                               3
2. Transport and Traffic.                                   4
3. Road Maintenance ....................... .......         6
4. Municipal Workshops ...........................          7
5. Solid Waste Management ........................          7
6. Planning.                                                7
III. THE PROJECT.                                                        8
A.  Objectives and Main Features.                                 8
B.   Project Description ....................... ......         8
1. Transport and Traffic Components.                        8
2. Upgrading Municipal Technical Departments               10
3. Solid Waste Collection and Disposal.                    11
4. Development Planning and Training .............         12
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .                                      13
A. Cost Estimates .13
B.   Financing Plan ...................      . ......            14
C.   Municipality Finances and Cost Recovery .15
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    .          .16
A. Project Coordination .16
B. Executing Departments .16
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .17
A.   Status of Project Preparation       .       .               17
B.  Implementation Schedule                .        .17
C.   Procurement ............... .......................  ] 7
D. Disbursements    ..19
This report was prepared on the basis of a mission ,to Jordan between January
24 and February 14, 1983 consisting of Messrs. F. Mitchell (Economist, Mission
Leader), D. Cook (Municipal Engineer), S. Mitric (Transport Planner), J.
Cracknell (Consultant, Traffic Engineer), and M. Neamatalla (Consultant, Solid
Waste  Engineer).   Mr.  Churchill  (URB)  was  present  during  the  appraisal
mission's  last week in Jordan.   Messrs.  Mitchell  and Mitric,  and B. Ellis
(Consultant, Municipal Engineer,) reviewed project status between April 16 and
April 23, 1983.
-. ii -
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
E.   Accounts, Audits and Progress Reporting    . .          19
F.   Monitoring and Evaluation           ..                  20
G.   Supervision Requirements .........................      20
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                  . . .                   20
A.   General .............................    . . .          20
B.  Economic Evaluation ..............................       21
C. Distributional Impacts ..   24
D.   Environmental Impacts ............................      24
E.   Project Risks ....................................      24
VIII.   ASSURANCES SECURED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION.       25
A.   Assurances Secured at Negotiations ...............      25
B.   Effectiveness Conditions .........................      26
C.   Disbursement Condition ...........................      26
D.   Recommendation ...................................      26
Text Tables:
4.1  Project Cost Summary .............................      14
4.2  Project Finances .................................      14
4.3  Municipality Financing Plan ......................      15
6.1  Procurement Arrangements .. i....... ................   18
7.1  ERRs Dn Major Intersection Improvements ..........      21
7.2  ERRs on Corridor Improvements ....................      22
ANNEXES
I - Organization Charts of the Municipality of Amman,
the Engineering and Studies Departments
2 - Amman Municipality Financial Scenario
3 - Detailed Project Costs
4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5 - Project Implementation Schedule
6 - Monitoring Indicators
7 - Schedule of Staff Increases, Technical Assistance, Policies,
and Studies
Table 1: Schedule of Staffing
2: Technical Assistance
3; Agreements on Policies
4: Schedule of Studies
8 - Terms of Reference
(a) Traffic Engineering Advisor
(b) Traffic Signals Specialist
(c) Engineering/Economic Feasibility Study of Arterial Roads
(d) Road Maintenance Engineering Advisor
(e) Technical Assistance for Amman Development Planning
(f) Traffic Police Training
9 - Economic Analysis
10 - Documents in the Project File
MAPS
Amman Region - Solid Waste Disposal Sites (Map No. 17086)
Amman Municipality - Location of Transport and Traffic Components
(Map No.17087)
Amman Municipality - Staircases Improvements (Map No. 17088)
- iii -



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Jordan has requested Bank assistance. to finance and
implement a Transport and Municipal Development Project in Amman. The project
falls within the general ambit of the recommendations of the Amman Region
Transportation Study (ARTS), the Urban Sector Review, and the Solid Waste
Management and Disposal Studyll.  The basic objective of the project  is to
assist Amman Municipality (AM) to improve its planning and delivery of a range
of municipal services.
II. BACKGROUND
A. URBAN DEVELOPMENT IN JORDAN
2.01     Population  and  Urbanization;  Jordan  (East  Bank)  has  one  of  the
smallest populations  in the region  (2.1 million  at the  time  of the  1979
Census), one of the highest urbanization rates (70% of the population in
lccalities with 5,000 or more people), and the fastest growth (5% annual rate
of population increase in the last thirty years, currently about 4%).  Due to
rainfall patterns, only one-sixth of the country's area is inhabited.21
2.02     Urbanization and Growth;   Given the scarcity of natural  resources,
Jordan's future growth will depend heavily upon export-based industrial and
service activities.   Such activities  rely upon ready  availability  of high
quality  infrastructures,  business  and  financial   services,   international
communications, and a pool of skilled labor, in other words, upon the
agglomeration economies which can only be provided in urban areas.
2.03     Managing Urban Growth;  Major strides have been made in recent years
in increasing the supply of urban services.   To a considerable extent,  this
has been through efforts by central government ministries and national
agencies   (e.g.   in  water,   electricity,   telecommunications,   health   and
education).   Local governments have an essential role to play, however,  in
three major fields; transport, solid waste collection and disposal, and land
use planning.
2.04     The  ability  of  local  governments   to  perform  their  functions
aLdequately is seriously constrained by  finances  and lack of staff.   Local
governments   enjoy   minimal   financial   autonomy   vis-a-vis   the   central
government.  Most of their "ordinary" (tax) revenues are collected by central
government at rates over which they have no control.  Expenditures are also
meticulously  controlled  by  central  government.   The  result  is  that  local
governments have little incentive to seek to improve service standards,  to
plan future activities, or even to monitor performance.  As regards staff, the
escalation of wage rates due to employment opportipnities abroad and in the~
private sector, combined with low government  payscales,   make  it   extremely
1/ See Annex 10 for complete references to these sources.
2/ Only 5,000 sq km of the total area (91,000 sq km) are cultivablea.



- 2 -
difficult to retain technical and managerial staff with marketable skills.
The 1981-85 Development Plan stated that a Royal Commission on Public
Administration would be formed to deal with some of these issues.
2.05     Regional  Distribution  and  Role  of  Amman;  Jordan's  population  is
highly concentrated around the capital of Amman, which grew from a city of
56,000 people at the end of World War II to almost 625,000 in 1979.  Another
500,000 live in urban areas within 30 km of the center of Amman.  The initial
impetus for Amman's growth was its status as the capital, and then as the
major destination for the flow of refugees since 1948 11.  Subsequently, the
Amman region was the only area in the country with sufficient agglomeration
economies to support the large scale growth of internationally competitive
industrial and service activities.  As the center of the national population,
it is competitively located for activities which serve primarily domestic
markets.  Businessmen also find it convenient to locate near Amman to secure
required permits.
2.06     At  least  since  the  1973-75  Development  Plan,  the  Government  has
stated the objective of deconcentrating from Amman so as to spread the
benefits  of  development  more  widely,   and  to  reduce  the  extent  of
overcongestion and large scale poverty 3] which are felt to characterize the
capital.  Substantial efforts have been made to implemernt this objective, with
public sector investrnent per capita since the mid-1970s being much higher
outside  than  inside  Amman  Governorate.    Nevertheless,   under  the  most
optimistic assumptions about growth of other centers, the Amman region will
accommodate more, possibly much more, than one-half of national population
growth until the end of the century.
B. BANK GROUP ROLE AND STRATEGY
2.07     The Bank has carried out extensive economic and sector work as well
as project financing related to urban development in Jordan.  Recent studies
include the above-cited Urban Sector Review, the Regional Development Study
(report  under  preparation)  and  the  Water  Sector  Review  (report  under
preparation). Bank urban lending has concentrated on water, municipal finance
and shelter.  Five water and sewerage projects have been undertaken in urban
areas and two more are under preparation.   In 1980, a loan of US$10 million
was approved to support the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) with
the objective of building up the capacity of local governments to provide
services for their populations.
1/ In 1979, about 40% of the East Bank's population consisted of refugees,
displaced persons and their descendants.
2/  No national income distribution data are available beyond 1973-74.  Recent
household surveys indicate that about 12% of the households in the Amman
area is below the 1979 Bank-defined urban poverty threshold of JD 720 per
household per year.  The number of households below the poverty threshold
in the refugee camps and squatter settlements was between 17% and 20%.
Poverty   afflicts  mainly   persons  who  are   socially   or  physically
disadvantaged   (female  heads  of  households,  mentally  or  physically
handicapped, old people without children to take care of them, etc.).



-3-
2.08     The First Urban Development Project (loan of US$21 million approved
in 1980) was designed to provide improved housing and cssociated services for
low-income people  (below the 33rd percentile).   The project  is introducing
upgrading of existing areas, and sites and services for new areas, with lower
cDst standards than allowed under previous planning and engineering practice.
Although the project was delayed by reconsideration of standards associated
with Government changes, the Government has reaffirmed its commitm,ent to the
basic   principles  oi  low   cost   standards   and   avoidance   of   subsidy.
Replicability should therefore be feasible with a prospect for eventual
improvement of conditions for a large proportion of the lower income group.
Further innovation in standards may be needed to reach the lowest income
groups on a non-subsidized basis.
2.09     In the urban transport field, the Bank has financed construction of
the motorway between the country's two main cities, Amman and Zarqa (a US$6
million loan approved in 1971).   Subsequent major roacd works (including the
"penetrator" into the center of Amman), designed partly by consultants
f'inanced under the Bank's loan, have been funded by domestic resources and the
Arab Fund.
2.10     The Bank's future strategy regarding urban development is to assist
the Government to provide urban services efficiently where they are needed
most to stimulate eccnomic growth and to benefit less advantaged members of
the society.  Both objectives imply a focus on the Amman region.  The strategy
also requires strengthening local governments to plan and manage increasingly
complex  urban  areas.   The  urban  sector  review  highlighted  transport  as
requiring special attention due to its investment needs and widespread
ramifications  for Amman  regional  development.   The  proposed  project  fits
within this context.
C. PROJECT AREA
1. Government Institutions
2.11     Amman Municipality (AM), is the most important local government in
Jordan.   The Lord MaLyor has ministerial  status  and,  unlike  other mayors,
depends  upon  the  Prime  Minister   rather  than  upon  the  Minister  of
Municipalities  and  Rural  Affairs  (MMRA)  for  administrative  and  budgetary
approvals.   In 1981, the Municipality's revenues amounted to JD 16.8 million
(US$56 million)  or 32% of  receipts  of all Jordanian municipalities.   The
municipality employs around 2,500 people.
2.12     AM  suffers  from  many  of  the  same  planning,  administrative  and
budgetary problems as other local governments.  Under the late Lord Mayor, a
major effort was made to upgrade municipal operations through engaging new
staff, delegating responsibility to them, seeking more participation by
citizens in formulating programs, and through more active pursuit of solutions
to municipal problems.   The Municipality  also  sought  support  from Central
Government to increase salary scales for certain posts, and to update the
valuation of properties so as to increase tax revenues.  The new Lord Mayor,
who was appointed in mid-February, 1983, is equally concerned to upgrade
municipal operations, and is building on the precedents established by his
predecessor.



-4-
2.13     The Municipality's organization is currently being streamlined.  From
having 14 major departments each reporting to the Lord Mayor (Annex 1, Table
la), all Departments are now being grouped under three Assistants to the Mayor
(Annex 1, Table lb). Moreover, all responsibilities for road maintenance have
been assigned to the Engineering Department (ED) (they were previously split
between the old Public Works Department and the Districts Department),
responsibilities for gardens and the municipal aviary have been placed with
the Assistant for Services, and the Studies Department: (SD) is being given
responsibility  for designing  all  projects.   A  new  Solid  Waste  Management
Department (SWMD) will take over responsibility for waste disposal from the
Mechanical and Electrical Department.  It will include a new section for solid
waste planning and control to monitor collection operations which remain the
domain of the Districts.
2. Transport and Traffic
2.14     General:  Efficient development of transport will have a major impact
on the efficiency with which Amman performs its basic economic functions.
Traffic congestion in the center, and highway investments around the city,
have been a cause of the past tendency towards urban sprawl.
2.15     The  Government's   traditional  strategy  for  dealing  with  Amman
transport, consisting largely of accommodating rapid increases in private
automobiles through expansion of highways, is rapidly reaching its limits, due
partly to high incremental costs of new highways caused by the difficult
topography of Amman.  Travel is forecast to grow at around 6% per year until
the end of this decade - and at higher rates in the parts of the city
undergoing  most  rapid  expansion.   Optimizing  transport  investments  will
require the country and city to address basic transport policies, especially
managing the growth of private automobile traffic,  and to strengthen their
capacity to plan viable investments.   In the meantime,  use of the existing
road network can be substantially increased with relatively small investments
in works and equipment and improvements in traffic enforcement measures.
2.16     Travel  Patterns  and  Vehicle  Fleet;   In  1980  private  automobiles
carried approximately 44% of daily motorized trips, whilst service (shared)
taxis, call (regular) taxis, and scheduled bus services accounted for 26%, 11%
and 12% of daily movements respectively.   The remaining 7% of trips was by
school and company owned buses.  Although private automobile travel is heavily
taxed (vehicles attract import duties of 100% and more, and gasoline is sold
at around US$2.06 per gallon, about twice the border price), private vehicle
registrations  in the Amman area more  than doubled  from 30,000  in 1976 to
79,000 in 1980, and are projected to rise to 160,000 by 1990.  Scheduled bus
services are provided by the subsidized Public Transport Corporation (PTC), a
para-statal organization responsible to the Minister of Transport (MT) which
operates 433 buses on 42 routes centered on downtown Amman.  Daily patronage
is of  the  order  of  150,000  passengers  per  day  but  much  below  capacity.
Average travel speeds fall in the range of 14-18 km/hr.  Service taxis (4,777
vehicles (1980) restricted to carrying five passengers or less, operating on
fixed routes at regulated fares) operate throughout the city along high
density corridors, typically with all seats full.  Call taxis (1,790 in 1980)
ostensibly operate from local stations (20 taxis per station) but in fact tend
to cruise for passengers.



-5-
2.17     The PTC was established partly to compete with service taxis which
were felt to create congestion and to generate excess costs of transport
compared with  buses.   The  service  taxis  have  survived,  however,  with  the
result that the overall level of service provided for public transport users
is of a very high standard compared with most other developing countries.
More attention is needed on the trade-offs between private automobiles and
public transport, as contrasted with trade-offs among public transport modes.
2.18     Road Network;  The  arterial  highway  network  in Amman  is  largely
radial, since the city developed along a fan of deep valleys (wadis) and the
intervening ridges (jabals).  Two incomplete ring roads are emerging in the
north of the area following the recent  thrust of urbanization.  the Inner
Ring, some 3.5 km from the center; and the Outer Ring, another 2 kan further to
the north (Map IBRD No. 17087). Three large gaps remain in the network; (a) a
southern ring road li.nk to provide a by-pass  for the Amman center;  (b) a
direct connection between the commercially active Jabals Amman, Weibdeh and
Hussein; and (c) a ring/radial road with a northern orientation to connect
Jabal Hussein and the Inner Ring.
2.19     Arterial  roads  in Amman  are  few and  a small  number  of  critical
intersections controls the level of service over large portions of the
network. The strategic intersections of the ring roads and major radials at
Sports City, Nasser Circle, Nasr and the roundabout at Third Circle constitute
serious bottlenecks.  At Nasser Circle and Third Circle, the past ability of
roundabouts (traffic circles) to handle rising traffic flows has been
exhausted.   The  signal  system  at  Sports  City,  and  the  police  controlled
intersection at Nasr, have now reached their capacity limits.  Flows are high
for over 10 hours per day, and average delays per vehicle measured throughout
the day vary from 2 to 5 minutes at different intersections.  Average delays
at some individual approaches exceed 8 minutes.   With a virtual absence of
alternative routes in the street system, traffic blockages now frequently
paralyze the surrounding network with delays of 20 minutes and more.  This
issue requires priority attention.
2.20     Within the Inner Ring Road, all radial routes exhibit low traffic
service  levels.   This  is  due  not  to  a  lack  of  capacity,   but  to
underutilization of existing capacity.  Road surfaces  are in getnerally poor
condition; priorities at many intersections remain unresolved; and traffic
signs,  signals and road markings  are not utilized enough  to e!ase friction
among  parallel  or cross  traffic  flows.   The  poor  state  of  sidewalks  and
absence of curbs leads to mixing of pedestrian and traffic streams, to the
detriment of both.
2.21     The traditional center of Amman, the Central Business District (CBD),
is in a particularly serious predicament. Lacking complete peripheral routes
(para. 2.18) much of the traffic between east and west Amman and between the
jabals is forced to pass through the CBD.  Together with traffic destined for
the downtown and large volumes of pedestrians, the through traffic has created
continuous  10-12  hour  congestion,  compounded  by  problems  of  stationary
vehicles (especially buses and service taxis, since nearly all lines are
radial and terminate in the center) and inoperative traffic signals. This has
led to a deterioration of the downtown as a place to work in or to visit; (i)



-6-
congestion is rampant; (ii) conflicts between bus and taxi operators are
frequent;   (iii)   pedestrians   cannot  be   contained   on   the  narrow  and
deteriorating sidewalks; and (iv) street crossing for pedestrians and vehicles
is difficult.   The consequences  extend  beyond  transport  to  changing  urban
development patterns.  Thus traffic "blight", combined with a general neglect
of urban environment in the center, has been one factor inspiring costly
proposals to create a new "city center" north of the Inner Ring.
2.22     Poor  people  suffer  more  than  most.   The  low  income  settlements
located near the center are on steep hillsides or high ground inadequately
served with roads or public transport.  These areas rely on stone or concrete
staircases providing access to and from the center.  Unfortunately, many were
poorly constructed in the first instance and inadequate maintenance has made
them difficult and sometimes dangerous to use. Several low income settlements
on jabals situated some distance from the CBD also suffer from substandard
road access, with associated congestion, low travel speeds, and heavy accident
rates.
2.23     Traffic  Engineering;   The  Traffic  Engineering  Section  of  the
Municipality's Engineering Department (ED) has 69 staff, of whom three are
engineers and the rest are workmen.  The Section's main tasks are making and
erecting signs, and Lmplementing the street naming and numbering project.
Traffic engineering design capacity in the Studies Department (SD) and ED is
inadequate.   A lack of suitably qualified  technicians  is a major  cause of
non-operative signals.  The present staff is insufficient for a capital city
with three quarters of a million inhabitants and a 6% annual growth in traffic.
2.24     Safety;  The traffic safety record in Jordan is not good; the rate of
45 deaths per 10,000 registered vehicles in 1978 is among the highest in the
Middle East and 15 times as high as in the U.S. or the U.K.  It is estimated
that accidents cost the country in the range of US$30 million per annum.  Over
50% of accidents occurred in the Amman region, 80% during daylight hours.
Forty five percent of the victims were pedestrians, with children under 10
years being the most affected group. The general causes of this high accident
record comprise a mix of driver and pedestrian behavior,  road and sidewalk
conditions, lack of road markings and of traffic warning and regulatory signs.
3. Road Maintenance
2.25     Maintenance of the approximately 600 km of surfaced road with a value
of around JD 85 (US$240) million is a serious problem in Amman Municipality.
Responsibility for roadl maintenance comes under the ED, which employs 230 men
in road maintenance and in construction of 30-40 km of (mainly tertiary) road
annually.   Lack of appropriately qualified and experienced staff in the ED
seriously constrains the effectiveness of maintenance operations. There is no
adequate inventory of' road geometry and condition which, together with
information on vehicle usage and climate, could provide the basis for a
rational  maintenance  program.   Engineering  and  quality  control  in  the
construction of new roads, including sidewalks, and in the maintenance of
existing roads, is inadequate. The management and cost accounting systems for
force account work are poor and costs, to the extent they can be ascertained,
are high.   Trench reinstatement  is also badly done.  T'he current municipal
practice of handling road maintenance largely by resurfacing existing streets
(over JD 4 million spent since 1979) is proving to be increasingly expensive.



-7-
4. Municipal Workshops
2.26     The Mechanical and Electrical Department (M&ED) is responsible  for
maintaining the Municipality's 396 vehicles and pieces of heavy equipment with
a replacement value  cf approximately  JD 4.2  (US$12) million.  Recent years
have seen significant improvements in workshop practices, record keeping and
fleet management.  Nevertheless, efficiency has been impaired by; (a) lack of
a regular replacement policy and of economical spare parts policies (resulting
in excessive vehicle down time); (b) an inadequate maintenance margin of
equipment (resulting in lower than desirable service levels); (c) lack of some
workshop equipment (resulting in excessive down time and costs of repairs);
and (d) the current system under which the M&ED, rather than the relevant user
departments, is responsible for administration of drivers as well as the
upkeep of equipment.
5. Solid Waste Management
2.27     Approximately 750 tons of municipal solid waste are generated  daily
in  the  Greater  Amman  Urban  Region,  80%  of  which  are  produced  by  the
Municipality of Amman and the major neighboring municipalities of Zarqa and
Ruseifa. Household waste is discarded in plastic bags which are picked up 2-3
times a week by municipal sanitation  crews and transported by pushcarts  to
collection points where wastes are stored in 1-3m3 containers for removal by
compactor or hoist type collection vehicles.  The AM sanitation fleest consists
of 61 vehicles with an estimated waste removal capacity of 500 tons.  Of the
61 vehicles, 34 need to be retired within the next two years.
2.28      Wastes in the! Greater Amman Urban Region are now dumped at seven,
largely unmanaged, sites, the largest of which is at Marka.  Several sites are
near settlements, where they are a nuisance and provide a haven for rodents
and insects.  More importantly, there  is growing  concern  at all levels  of
goverrment over the ground and surface water pollution potential of current
waste disposal practices.
6. Planning
2.29      Since 1980, t'hree relatively inactive departments were combined into
a studies and planning department which now numbers 24 professional staff with
qualifications in engineering, architecture, and planning.  The department is
preparing a new Amman. masterplan (to be completed in June 1983) and has
developed  proposals  for  several  major  projects  (including  the  proposed
project) in addition to its administrative duties under the planning codes.
The  department  (and   the  Municipality   generally)   lacks   any  qualified
economists, financial analysts, or transport planners.  These gaps severely
limit its ability to undertake the next phase of its planning activity
(preparation of a 20-year strategy plan, and a 6-year investment program), as
well as to give sufficient attention to the economic and financial aspects of
policy questions and proposed projects.  The design staff of the SD is also
inadequate to carry out: itself or supervise consultants to design all works in
the municipality investment program.  The proposed project would aim to help
the Municipality overccme this problem (paras. 3.14, 3.17 and 3.18).



-8-
III.  THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES AND MAIN FEATURES
3.01     The basic project objectives would be to undertake high priority road
and traffic improvemelats, to increase the capacity of Amman Municipality to
manage transport and solid waste services, and to strengthen its capacity to
formulate appropriate policy decisions, development plans and investment
programs.
3.02     Specific objectives would be to:
(a)  strengthen  Amman's  transport  infrastructure  and  reduce  traffic
problems through;
(i)   the construction of improvements at four critical intersections;
(ii)  a comprehensive program of traffic and transport measures  in
the CB:D and along five major corridors and complementary
traffic engineering and enforcement measures; and
(iii) feasibility  and  design   studies   for  major   road   network
improvements;
(b)  upgrade  the  ability  of  the  Engineering  and  the  Mechanical  and
Electrical   Departments   to  maintain   the   Municipality's   plant
investments, including roads and mechanical equipment;
(c)  strengthen solid waste collection and disposal through investments in
collection  equipment   and  development   of  environmentally   sound
landfill sites to serve the Amman region; and
(d)  strengthen  the Municipality's  capacities  for development  planning,
policy formulation, investment programming and design of works in
transport  and  more  generally  through  technical  assistance  and
training.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Transport and Traffic Components
(a) Major Intersection Improvements
3.03     The  project  would  finance  improvements  to  four  intersections  of
arterial roads which are operating at the limit of their existing capacity
(para. 2.19, see also Map IBRD No.17087). These are;
(i)   Nasser Circle, a roundabout serving five roads,  including the
Inner Ring Road, where an underpass and overpass would be
constructed to carry traffic in the majlor directions with a
ground Level roundabout to handle most turning movements;



-9-
(ii)  Sports City, a channelized signal controlled junction between a
major radial and the Outer Ring Road, where an underpass and an
overpass would be implemented;
(iii) Nasr Interchange, a complete junction serving the recently
constructed Penetrator Road, the Inner Ring Road, and the
access road to the Nasr low income housing area, where
significant at grade improvements (including traffic signals
and channelization) would be constructed; and
(iv) Third Circle, a roundabout serving five roads, three of which
are arterials, where at grade improvements would be implemented.
(b)  Traffic Improvement Measures
3.04     Central  Business  District   (CBD);   The  CBD   subcomponient  would
substantially reduce existing congestion and increase pedestrian safety (para.
2.21) through; (i) introducing improved circulation, partially one way, (ii)
recommissioning 10 traffic signal sets and linking them to 5 new ones; (iii)
channelizing unsignalized intersections; (iv) rehabilitating 10.5 km of
carriageway and 30,000 m2 of sidewalks and constructing one grade separated
pedestrian crossing; (v) rerouting bus and service taxis, creating bus only
streets and relocating transit terminals; (vi) relocating street vendors and
providing  pedestrian  only  streets;  (vii)  changing  parking  controls  and
facilities; and (viii) improving street lighting along 4.5 km of road.  These
schemes have been approved by the technical working committee ofE the Amman
Traffic Committee.  Disbursements  on this  component would be contingent  on
t:his scheme's receiving final Traffic Committee approval.
3.05     Corridor  Improvements;   Traffic  and  safety  conditions  would  be
improved on 19 km of five major radial routes (para. 2.20).  These corridors
were chosen because they carry most of the public bus and service taxi routes
serving the central area and have high pedestrian volumes.  Four of them serve
predominantly low income areas which account for about 80 percent of the
city's population.
3.06     No  major  changes  would  be  made  to  the  horizontal  or  vertical
alignments  of  the  roads.   The  objective  is  rather  to  provide,  wherever
possible, traffic lanes of 3.65 m width, remove lateral obstructions, improve
the running surface anm sidewalks where they are in need of repair, improve
street lighting, carriageway markings, and traffic signs and provide traffic
signals  and  channelization  at  all  key  intersections.   Public  transport
facilities (waiting sheLters, parking bays, signs) would also be improved in a
consistent manner along the corridors.
3.07     Other Works.   The project would  rehabilitate 43 staircases with a
combined length of 3 km and provide handrails and lighting for 5.25 km of
staircases, most of whi.ch connect the central area to surrounding low-income
housing areas (Map IBED No.17088).   The project would also provide for the
rehabilitation and improvement of 3 existing access roads to low income areas,
(to Al Qsor and Al Nasr serving about 67,000 people) totalling some 1.6 km,
and one new access road of .5 km serving the low income sites ;and services
scheme at Quweismeh (ultimate population of about 17,000) and the existing El



I          - 10 -
Manara Settlement (7,000 people).  Improvements would be made on 5 junctions
identified by the Traffic Police as serious accident blackspots, but which are
not included in the corcridor component. The works would include the provision
of traffic signals, carriageway markings, signs, channelization, footways,
guard rails, crash barriers, and street lighting.
3.08     Enforcement:  An essential element in securing potential returns from
investments in traffic measures consists in effective enforcement of the
traffic  laws.   The Traffic  Police  in Amman are  competent;  however,  their
effectiveness would be increased through specialized training emphasizing
selective enforcement and accident investigation and reporting.  The component
would consist of engaging an experienced organization to; (i) evaluate
existing traffic police training; (ii) strengthen e.xisting annual short
courses; and (iii) arrange 6-month special training courses for two 5-man
batches (one batch per year) of the most promising students from the existing
courses, who would become instructors in the regular police training program.
Draft terms of reference for the component are included in Annex 8(f).
(c) Feasibility arnd Design Studies for Major Road Networks
3.09     The  project  would  include  a  full-scale  engineering  and  economic
feasibility study to identify the medium-term highway investment program which
would fill the main gaps in the existing ring road net:work (para 2.18) and
follow-up design studies.  Since the terrain is difficult, construction costs
would  be  highly  sensitive  to  minor  variations  in  alignment  and  design
standards.  The study would therefore include particularly detailed site and
traffic surveys. Draft terms of reference for the study are included at Annex
8(c).
2. Upgrading Municipal Technical_Lepartments
3.10     The project would address weaknesses  in the  technical  departments
(paras. 2.25 to 2.29) through (a) organizational streamlining,  (b) upgrading
staff, (c) some technical assistance, and (d) investments in civil works and
equipment.   The Municipality would  also  introduce,  by January  1,  1986,  a
system of cost accounting in the ED, M&ED and SD and the proposed SWMD, since
reliable  information  on  costs  of  different  operations  is  essential  in
monitoring performance and seeking productivity increases.  The project would
provide 24 manmonths of local consulting services to assist the AM to
introduce an improved accounting system in the cont:ext of the planned
computerization of municipal accounts.  Further details on the organizational,
staffing and technical assistance elements are given below and in Annex 7.
3.11     Engineering Department  (ED); This  component  would  reorganize  and
strengthen  the  ED  to  improve  the  level  of  quality  control,  contract
supervision and programming and management  of direct  labor activities.   To
this end, the project would include;
(a) provision for engagement on contract terms of 7 senior qualified
engineers. It is expected that suitable candidates can be found
among Jordanian engineers now working abroad;
(b) engagement of a road maintenance advisor (TORs at: Annex 8(d));



- 11 -
(c)  miscellaneous studies on a road inventory, pavement evaluation, and
quality control study to be carried out by the Royal Scientific
Society (RSS) and the University of Jordan Engineering Faculty;
(d)  purchase of equipment  to assist with  road maintenance,  design and
quality  control  of  pavements  and  remodeling   the  Department's
Laboratory; and
(e)  the  1985  and  1986  contract  elements  of  the  road  rehabilitation
program to be developed by the strengthened staff during 1984 with
the help of the technical assistance described in (b) and (c) above.
3.12     The  Municipality  has  recently  taken  action  to  improve! the  ED's
efficiency by allocating to it responsibility for alL activities directly
related to supervision and execution of roads, footways, staircases and
retaining walls, and placing in other departments tasks not related to this
responsibility.   In  addition,  the  Municipality  intends  to  restrict  the
proportion of road maintenance and construction carried out by force account
to no more than 30% of the total by December 31, 1985.  This will enable the
Municipality's limited management and technical staff to concentrate on
planning arnd management tasks, while making full use of privrate sector
capacities to organize execution of works.
3.13     Municipal Workshop;  The component would consist of (a) the purchase
of equipment including vehicle and car lifts, washing machine, tire removal
equipment  and  miscellaneous  testing  and  calibration  equipment,  and  (b)
associated civil works.   The main  thrust of the management and operational
policy measiures would be to give more control over equipment operators to
individual user departments; to increase efficiency of vehicle and equipment
use by  changing  the  inter-departmental  system  for  allocating vehicles  and
arranging for their repair; to develop and implement fleet replacement and
spares policies; and to increase productivity of the department (Annex 7
contains more details).
:3.14    Studies Department;   The design capacity of the Studies Department
(para 2.29) would be increased by the addition of two senior design engineers
(,on contract terms), one of them specialized in traffic engineering, and two
junior engineers. They would be responsible  for preparing detailed designs of
corridors to be improved in the second and third years of the project,
finalizing design for the low income access roads and independent junctions as
well as for design of other municipal transport infrastructures.  They would
-provide some assistance to ED in supervising the traffic engineering works.
These staff would be supported by the services of a Traffic Engineering
Advisor and a Traffic Signals Specialist (TORs in Annex 8(a) and (b)) and by
short specialized trairing courses for traffic engineering staff.
3. Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
3.15     This component: would enhance the capabilities of the Municipality of
Amman to meet its refuse collection/disposal responsibilities through:
(a)  purchase of ccllection equipment;



- 12 -
(b)  provision of civil works and equipment for sanitary landfills at 4
strategically located sites (Map IBRD No. 17086) selected for their
favorable hydro-geological and environmental characteristics and
closing the Marka site (a major source of air, groundwater, and
surface  water  pollution)  as  well  as  7  other  unmanaged  sites.
Guidelines for the management and operation of sanitary landfills in
the Greater Amman Urban Region would be developed no later than
December   31,   1983   for   review   by   the   Bank   and   subsequent
implementationl;
(c)  building  institutional capabilities  to plan and implement  improved
waste management practices and procedures through the creation by
December 31, 1983 of a solid waste management department (SWMD) in
AM. The SWMD would have two main sections. a solid waste disposal
section,  and a planning  and control  section.   Since  the disposal
section would have regional responsibilities, it would be advised by
a board comprising representatives from other municipalities, the
Department  of Environmental  Protection  of  MMRA,  and  the  Natural
Resources Authority (NRA); and
(d) implementing mechanisms for cost recovery (para. 4.06);
3.16     AM would,  through  the planning  and  control  section  of  the  SWMD,
prepare a plan and program for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
waste collection for discussion with the Bank by December 31, 1984.
4. Development Planning and Training
3.17     Amman  Planniig:   The  project  would  support  AM's  intention  to
strengthen  its  capacities  to  make  plans,  formulate  policies,  and  define
investment  programs  (para.  2.29).    Specific  planning  activities  to  be
undertaken would include:
(a)  the preparation (by July 1984) of a 20 year strategy plan for Amman
which would identify appropriate policies regarcling levels of service
provision, and desirable directions of growth;
(b)  the  formulation  (by  December  1984)  of  a  6-year  (1985-90)  public
investment program for the municipality area.  This would explicitly
incorporate investments in services, such as water and sewerage,
which fall outside the Municipality's budget, as well as investments
undertaken by the Municipality, and would serve as AM's initial input
into the 1986-90 national plan.  The plan for municipality finances
(para. 4.05) would be partly based on this program;
(c)  the  updating  of  the  ARTS  urban  transportation  model  to  provide
guidance on i~uture transport  investments  and policy  choices which
would  be  reflected  in  the  strategy  and  investment  program.   The
policy work would include analysis of the need for, and means of,
traffic restraint (including pricing measures), and the roles of
different public transport modes (paras. 2.15 and 2.17); and



- 13 -
(d)  systematic analysis of the economic and financial feasibility  of all
major development projects considered by the Municipality.
AM agreed at negotiations to forward copies of  (a) and (b) for Bank review
and discussion.
3.18      The  project  would  support  the  above  activities  through;  (a)  an
augmentation in local staff with disciplines not now represented in the
Studies Department, (b) training courses, (c) approximately 60 manmonths of
technical assistance, and (d) the acquisition of a micro computor (which would
also be used by the PCTU).  (Further details on staffing are given in Annex 7.)
3.19      Training;  No  systematic  training  activity  currently  exists  in AM.
The project would start addressing  this  issue  by the appointment of a full
time training coordinaltor in the Project Coordination ancd Training Unit (para.
5.01).  The coordinator would assess training needs, coordinate  selection  of
candidates for overseas and  local courses  (see  paras. 3.08, 3.10, 3.14  and
3.18), and develop  special courses and seminars in collaboration with  local
institutions  (e.g.  Yarmouk  University,  RSS)  in  such  fields  as  traffic
engineering,  road  maintenance,  road  safety,  and  economic  and   financial
appraisal.  Provision would be made in the project for a technical -assistance
pool which would not exceed a total of six manmonths to provide training in
specialist areas, and to allow the Municipality to call on high level advisors
tc assist in resolvingJ critical urban development, engineering or municipal
finance issues which may arise during the project period.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. COST ESTIMATES
4.01      Cost estimates are detailed  in Annex 3 and summaarized in Table 4.1.
Baseline costs (as of June 1983) come to JD 17.5 (US$49.3) million.  Physical
contingencies average 17% on civil works, 7% on equipment, and 12% on total
baseline  costs.   Price  contingencies  on  the  foreign  component  have  been
calculated in accordance with the Bank forecast of international inflation of
8)' for the remainder of 1983, 7.5%  for 1984,  7% for 1985, 6%  for 1986 and
1987.  Price  contingencies  for local costs have  been  calculated  at 8%  per
annum  in line with  the forecast for the  GDP deflator.   Price  contingencies
come   to   19%   of   baseline   costs   plus   physical   contingencies.    Total
contingencies  amount  to  33%  of  baseline  costs.   Total  project  costs  are
estimated at JD 23.4 (US$65.6) million of which JD 13.1  (US$36.9) million  is
foreign  exchange,  and  JD  14,300  (US$40,200)  are  stamp  duties  paid  by
consultants.  Goods purchased by the Municipality are  exonerated  from  taxes
and customs duties and such taxes and duties are not included inL the cost
estimates.
4.02      Costs of the major intersections  are based upon sketch  designs for
each  intersection  prepared  by the  consultants  (para. 6.01).  Costs of civil
works  for  the  traffic  improvements  are  based  on  prelimary  designs  plus
detailed designs of some segments of the first two corridors.  Equipment and
technical assistance costs are based on current prices in Jordan.  I'he project
includes about 220 expatriate manmonths for professional services  for design



- 14 -
and  technical  assistance  at  an  average  cost  of  US$15,200  per  manmonth,
including travel and subsistence, and about 400 manmonths by local staff at an
average  cost  of  US$4,750  per  manmonth,   including  contingencies.   Total
professional services and technical assistance costs (including contingencies)
come to JD 2.5 (US$7.0) million.   The cost of 156 manyears of local  staff
engaged on contract, including salaries of the PCTU staff, would amount to JD
0.9 million (US$2.6 million).   Overseas  training (of about 150 MM at a cost
per manmonth of about $4,100) would cost JD 0.2 (US$0.6) million.
Table 4.1;  PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of      x of
JD million         US$ Million     Foreign   Total Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Tctal  Exchange    Costs
A. Major Intersection Improvements    3.4   4.1   7.5   9.7  11.4  21.1   54.2    42.7
B. Traffic Management and Engineering  1.5   2.2   3.7   4.3   6.1  10.3   58.7    21.0
C. Design of Future Networks      0.6   0.5   1.0   1.6   1.3   2.9   44.9          6.0
D. Upgrading Technical Departments    0.9   1.1   2.0   2.5   3.1   5.6   55.6    11.4
E. Solid Waste Disposal           0.7   1.8   2.5   1.9   5.1   7.0   72.7    14.2
F. Amman Development Planning     0.2   0.3   0.5   0.6   0.9   1.4   61.6          2.9
G. Project Coordination and
Training Unit                 0.3   0.1   0.3   0.7   0.2   0.9   21.8           1.8
TOTAL BASELINE COST               7.6  10.0  17.5  21.2  28.1  49.3   57.0   100.0
- Physical Contingencies       0.9   1.2   2.2   2.7   3.4   6.1   56.3    12.3
- Price Contingencies          1.7   1.9   3.7   4.9   5.4  10.3   52.7    20.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              10.2   13.1  2T3.4  28.7   36.9  65.6   56.3   133.2
N.B. Some totals do not add up due to rounding.
B. FINANCING PLAN
4.03      The financing plan is presented in Table 4.2.  A Bank loan of US$30
million would finance most of the foreign exchange cost of civil works and
equipment and, in the aggregate, cover 81% of total foreign exchange cost and
46% of total project cost.   The Government  and Municipality would meet  the
remainder of project cost.
Table 4.2; PROJECT FINANCES
US$ Million
Local        Foreign       Total
Municipality of Amman                                3.5          0.2           3.7
Government of Jordan                               25.2           6.7          31.9
World Bank                                          -            30.0          30.0
28.7         36.9          65.6



- 15 -
C. MUNICIPALITY FINANCES AND COST RECOVERY
,4.04     The Government of Jordan would be the Borrower.  The Govermment would
relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the Municipality of Amman with the
same rate of interest and amortization schedule as those in the Bank loan to
the Government. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk, however.
AM would finance JD 1.3 million (US$3.7 million) from its own resources.  The
remainder of the cost (JD 11.4 million or US$31.9 million) would be passed on
to AM as a Government grant.   Execution of the  subsidiary  loarL agreement
between the Government and the Municipality setting out the terms of these
transfers would be a condition for loan effectiveness.  These arrangements are
summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3; MUNICIPALITY FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Total               Source of Finance
Cost        Amman    Government   Bank
Muncipality    Grant    (IBRD)
Land                          0.9           0.3            0.6        -
Civil Wbrks                 45.4             -           22.8       22.6
Equipment                     7.9            -             0.5       7.4
Technical Assistance         6.2            -             6.2         -
Prof. Services,
Contracts, & Training        5.2            3.4            1.8        -
Total                  65.6           3.7           31.9       30.0
4.05     With the exception of solid waste  (para. 4.06),  the project would
provide public goods which are properly a charge on the public budget (rather
than being directly recoverable from beneficiaries).  The project's financial
arrangements have, therefore, been designed to reflect an appropriate balance
of responsibility between central government and the AM while avoiding undue
strain on the latter's finances.  The above-mentioned financing arrangements
should comfortably meet these objectives especially if the Government permits
feasible increases in AM's "ordinary" (tax) revenues now being sought by AM
(Annex 2).  Realizing these increases would also require considerable efforts
to strengthen the administration of the tax laws.  Assurances were- secured at
negotiations that a financing plan for the Municipality which would meet the
above  criteria  would  be  formulated  together  with  a  timetabLe  for  its
implementation  by end March  1985.   The Government  would  also  ensure  that
sufficient funds would be made available to permit execution of the project.
4.06     As regards the solid waste component,  the Government would ensure
that.
(a)  neighboring  municipalities  contribute  to  the  full  cost  of  waste
disposal in proportion to the tonnage they dump at project sites
(estimated at JD 1.2 per ton in 1983 prices);
(b)  that the average charge to householders in Amman would be raised by
January 1, 1986 to cover the full cost of solid waste collection and



- 16 -
disposal, estimated at JD 12 per household per year in 1983 prices as
contrasted wit:h the current charge of JD 6 per household per year.
These charges may be progressive (as could occur if solid waste
charges were a percentage surcharge on water or electricity bills,
options which are now being explored by the Municipality); and
(c) in the meantime, an effective method to collect charges would be
developed not later than June 30, 1984 and implemented by December
31, 1984 in order to secure payment from beneficiaries, the majority
of whom are currently avoiding payment.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT COORDINATION
5.01     The overall management of the project would be assured by the Project
Coordination and Training Unit (PCTU) under a Project Manager who would be
responsible to the Assistant to the Lord Mayor for Technical Services.
Establishment of the unit and appointment  of key staff with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank would be accomplished by loan effectiveness (Annex 7,
Table I details the staff required).
5.02     Operating departments (ED, SD, M&ED, SWMD) would,  in respect of all
matters concerning design, procurement, finance, and progress reporting on
project  components  within  their  departments,  report  to  the  Assistant  for
Techniical Affairs  thrcugh  the Project Manager.   The  PCTU would handle  the
administration  of  all  technical  assistance  under  the  prcject,  aLthough
specific   technical  assistance   personnel  would  be  responsible   to  the
departments to which tliey were assigned.   The PCTU would be responsible  for
coordinating all communications between the Bank and the Municipality.
B. EXECUTING DEPARTMENTS
5.03     The project would be executed by the departments shown in the
following table;
Cop onent                            Departme-iL R'eso.s-s-
A.   Four Major Intersections
-  Design                            Studies Denartment
-  Implementation                    Engineering De(ai  .t \ED)
B.   Traffic Improvement Measures
-  Design                            SD
-  Implementation                    ED
-  Traffic Enforcement Training    Department of Public Safety
C.   Road Network Suie                     Si-,
D.   Road Maintenance                      ED



- 17 -
F.   Solid Waste Disposal                  Solid Waste Management Department
(SWD)
G.   Amman Development Planning            SD
H.   Technical Assistance, Training        Project Coordination and Training
& Project Management                 Unit (PCTU)
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
6.01     Feasibility  studies  and  designs  for  the  four major  intersections
being prepared by consultants (Dar El Handasah) will be completed in June,
1983.   Detailed designs and bidding documents will become available at the
rate of one intersecl:ion per month between September and December 1983.
Preliminary designs for the other components have been carried out by AM,
partly with the assistance of a traffic engineer, a road maintenance engineer,
a municipal engineer, and a vehicle workshop specialist provided by Halcrow
Fox and Associates, and highway engineers provided by Jouzy and Partners.
Fi.nal designs and tender documents are expected to be substantially ready by
Board presentation for project components to be executed in the first year.
Detailed designs and bidding documents for components in later years will be
prepared by AM, with the help of technical assistance and contract staff to be
engaged  under  the  project.   They  will  be  supplemented,  as  necessary,  by
consultant engineers.
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
6.02     Project implementation is estimated to take five years starting in
mid-1983 according to the schedule in Annex 5.
C. PROCUREMENT
6.03     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6.1.
6.04     Works:  Civil works for four contracts with estimated costs of US$2
million  or  more,  and  aggregating  US$31  million,  would  be  procured  by
International  Competit;ive  Bidding  (ICB).   Contracts  for  other  civil  works
aggregating US$15 million would be on the basis of LocaL Competitive Bidding
(LCB) in about 18 contracts.  This is justified in view of the varied nature
of the works involved, the techniques and local knowledge required for their
implementacion, and the small size of each contract which is unlikely to
interest  foreign bidders.   Local competitive bidding procedures,  which were
reviewed  at  appraisal  and  found  to  be  satisfactory,  do  allow  foreign
contractors registered in Jordan to participate in tenders, however. Prior
review of procurement documents by the Bank would be required for all
contracts which are estimated to cost the equivalent of JD 350,000 (US$1
million) or more, as well as the contract for the staircases and the first
contract for isolated junctions, road maintenance, and landfill sites.  This



- 18 -
implies coverage of about 15 contracts accounting for about 90% of the cost of
civil works.  The remaining contracts would be subject to post-review by the
Bank after contract award.
Table 6.1; PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Number of         Procurement Method    Total
Contracts       ICB     LCB      Other   Cost
Land                                  n.a.                            0.9      0.9
(.)     (-)
Civil Works: Intersections at;
-Nasser Circle and Sports City   2          26.3                      26.3
-Nasr and Third Circle             2                  2.4              2.4
CBD Improvements                         1        2.3                       2.3
Corridor Improvements                    4        2.0      3.7              5.7
Staircases                               1                 0.9              0.9
Access to Low Income Areas               1                 1.1              1.1
Isolated Junctions                       2                 0.9              0.9
Road Maintenance                         3                 2.6              2.6
Wbrkshop                                 1                 0.2              0.2
Solid Waste;-New Sites                  4                  2.6              2.6
-Marka Reclamation          1                 0.4              0.4
Subtotal: Civil Works                     22       30.6    14.8              45.4
(15.3)   (7.4)           (22.7)(a)
Equipment: Street Lighting &
Traffic Signals                          2         1.5                      1.5
Road Maintenance, Heavy Equipment        1        1.0                       1.0
Road Testing, Laboratory Equipment  1           0.4                       0.4
Municipal Workshop                       1        0.1                       0.1
Traffic Signs Workshop                   1                 0.04             0.04
Solid Waste;  -Collection                1        2.8                       2.8
-Disposal Sites           1        2.0                       2.0
PCTU                                     3                          0.08    0.08
Subtotal; Equipment                       11        7.8      0.04    0.08    7.92
(7.2)   (0.03)  (0.08)  (7.3)
TA, Prof.Services,Contracts,       appr. 25                          11.4    11.4(b)
Training                              ___   -J                            _-)
Total                             58        38.4    14.8    12.4    65.6
(22.5)   (7.4)   (0.1)  (30.0)
Notes:   Figures  in parentheses  are the respective  amounts  financed by the
Bank.  (a) 50%; of civil works (see para. 6.08); (b) these items are
to be financed from goverNment's own resources or bilateral donors.



- 19 -
6.05     Equipment;  Equipment, vehicles, street lighting and traffic signals
with an aggregate cost of US$8 million would be grouped in about 7 bidding
packages which would be procured by ICB.   Qualifying domestic manufacturers
would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the
applicable import duties, whichever is lower.  Small items of equipment with
an  aggregate  cost  of  less  than  US$100,000  would  be  purchased  after
solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers.
6.06     Technical assistance, professional and contract services and training
would be procured from firms and individuals with qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, according to the implementation schedule
in Annex 7, Table 2. Annex 8 sets out qualifications and terms of reference
for the principal technical assistance assignments.
6.07     Land:  Land costing approximately JD65,000 will be required for the
lNasr intersection.  Small parcels  of land will be needed  for  ithe traffic
improvement works.  The solid waste disposal sites to be developed under the
project are all on government land, which will be transferred  to AM at an
estimated cost of JD216,000. The first step in land acquisition (designation,
in the case of government lands) for public (municipal) use is the approval of
l:he local planning committee, followed by the order to acquire (designate) by
the  Prime  Minister's  office;  after  that,  and  after  certain  automatic
Eormalities are executed by the Land and Survey Department of the Ministry of
]Finance,  the  concerned  agencies  may  take  possession.   Land  acquisition
procedures work smoothly in Jordan, and this is not expected to be a cause of
project delay.  Approval by the local planning committee of the acquisition
for Nasr intersection, and issue of orders to acquire (designate) sites
required for traffic improvement measures to be constructed during the first
year, would be a condition of effectiveness.
D. DISBURSEMENTS
6.08     Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) 50% of total expenditures for civil works; and
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment, 100% of ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured equipment, and 70% of expenditures
on equipment purchased locally.
6.09     The project would disburse over six years compared with an average
disbursement period of four and one half years for previous Bank loans to
Jordan and six and one half years for IDA Credits (Annex 4).  Closing date
would be June 30, 1989.
E. ACCOUNTS, AUDITS AND PROGRESS REPORTING
6.10     The overall  financial management  and accounting  of  the  Bank  loan
would be the responsibility of the Municipality, with the PCTU taking direct
responsibility for these functions.



- 20 -
6.11     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that no later than 6 months
after the close of each fiscal year, financial statements including cash flows
of project sub-accounts and year-end statements of receipts and expenditures
would be made available to the Bank,  accompanied by an audit report.   The
audit report would be prepared by the Auditing Department.  This department,
which reports to the National Consultative Council (Parliament), controls
expenditures as they are made to ensure consistency with basic regulations as
well  as  auditing  for  all  Government  departments.   This  arrangement  is
acceptable to the Bank.
6.12     Quarterly  progress  reports  would  be  prepared  by  the  PCTU  and
furnished to the Bank. They would focus on policy, physical, contractual and
financial progress of the project, including project performance related to
key indicators (Annex 6).  At the completion of the project, the PCTU would
prepare a project completion report (PCR) describing the implementation of the
project according to a table of contents to be agreed with the Bank.
F. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.13     The  PCTU  would  undertake,  through  the  executing  departments,  a
program of monitoring (a) to provide a basis for making adjustments to the
programs financed under the project; (b) to provide a basis for follow-up
programs; and (c) to evaluate the operational performance of the programs.
6.14     The monitoring  program  to be  carried  out by  the  SD  and  Traffic
Engineering Section of the ED would focus on traffic and pedestrian counts,
measures of travel times and delay and accident analyses to determine the
effectiveness  of  the  traffic  and  transport  components.   The ED would pay
special attention to the observation and recording of the effects of new road
maintenance techniques, standards and mixes, and various carriageway marking
materials. The SWMD would monitor costs of collection and disposal of solid
waste.   Other performance indicators will be defined as cost accounting is
implemented in the Technical Departments.
G. SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS
6.15     Since this project would increase institutional capacities of several
municipal departments, supervision would require personnel with specialized
experience in several areas (transport and development planning, accounting,
municipal engineering, and traffic management).  This implies relatively high
supervision coefficients, especially in the first two years.   Supervision by
Bank staff and consulttnts would require about 20 manweeks in FY84, 15 weeks
in FY85, and 10 and 5 in the following years, plus 10 manweeks for preparation
of the project completion report.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. GENERAL
7.01     The  project's  fundamental  objective  is  to  improve  planning  and
management of services in Amman with a view to facilitating national economic
growth.  The project should be seen in the context of a longer-term dialogue



- 21 -
with the Government and the Municipality designed to improve allocation of
investments and delivery of 'urban services.   The impacts of the project on
these high level goals are unquantifiable.   Nevertheless,  it is possible to
quantify benefits of some project components.
B. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
7.02     Investment  costs  are  taken  as  baseline  costs,   pltus  physical
contingencies, less taxes.  Further details on the the economic analysis are
contained in Annex 9.
Transport and Traffic Improvements
7.03     Major Intersections:   Following  established methodologies,  economic
benefits of the major intersections were estimated as the value of time saved
from reduction of vehicle delays at the major intersections due to the
investments under the p)roject.  Vehicle operating cost and energy savings were
not estimated for lack of a reliable estimate of the cost of idling.  Delays
were estimated for four different groups of hours in the day ("peak", "busy",
and two others) based on amount of traffic for a 10-year operating period on
the basis of (a) actual traffic counts for 1983, (b) the forecasts of travel
for 1995 generated by the ARTS land use/transportation model, and (c) a model
relating delays to traffic volumes for different design options for each
intersection.
7.04     In the case of the Sports City and Nasser Circle Intersections, the
rates of return on successively more costly options were explored (at-grade
improvements,  an underpass,  and  an underpass  plus  an  overpass).   In both
intersections, the highest cost option investigated yielded an ERR over its
best alternative in excess of the opportunity cost of capital of 10%.  Only an
at-grade solution was considered for Third Circle, since implementation of any
more elaborate option there should await the outcome of the feasibility study
on  the  Jabals  Ring  Road  to  be  undertaken  under  the  project.   At  Nasr
intersection, a proposal to construct a new ramp from the inner ring road to
the penetrator was discarded on the basis of inadequate traffic flows on that
link;  an  at-grade  solution  was  shown  to  provide  substantial  benefits.
however.  The results cf the analysis are summarized in Table 7.1, which shows
that ERRs are in excess of the opportunity cost of capital, even with adverse
assumptions about the value of time savings and costs.
Table 7.1; ERRs ON MAJOR INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS
Assumptions                Sports        Nasser      Third     Nasr
Value of         Costs           City         Circle      Circle   Inter-
Time Savings                                                         Section
Base           Base             58%           40%        134%       274%
-30%           Base             43%           27%         92%       191%
Base           + 25%            48%           32%        107%;      221%
-30%           + 25%            35%           20%         73%       154%
SOURCE : Annex 9



- 22 -
7.05     Central Business District.   This component would yield benefits  to
pedestrians,  public  transport  operators,  and  general  traffic.   Pedestrian
benefits, which have not been quantified, would consist of easier walking
downtown and faster acd safer crossings.  Public  transport vehicle operators
would benefit from route rationalization, relocation of bus and taxi
terminals, and creationi of bus only streets, for a saving in running costs of
JD  39,000  per  annum.   General  traffic  (also  including  public  transport
vehicles) would benefit from increased safety, speeds, and lower vehicle
operating costs due to improved pavements, better separation of pedestrians
and vehicles, removal of buses and taxis from some congested links, a more
efficient  circulation  system,   the  recommissioning  of  existing  signals,
installation of new ones and, most importantly, their continued operation
through staffing improvements.   In addition to reducing average delays over
the network, properly functioning signals would decrease the variance (which
is currently substantial) of delays at equal traffic loads thereby reducing
the occurrence of corri.dor-wide or area-wide tie-ups.  Accurate quantification
of all benefits of the CBD scheme is infeasible.  A partial and conservative
estimate, however, yields a first year rate-of-return of 44% for the entire
CBD investment and an ERR of 33% over a 5 year horizon at existing traffic
levels.
7.06     Corridor Improvements.  Benefits from travel time savings and vehicle
operating cost savings were quantified for two corridors (Misdar Street/Madaba
Road, 5.5 km long, baseline cost of JD 0.45 million and Al Quds Street, 3 km,
baseline cost of JD 0.35 million).  At the estimated rate of traffic growth
(6% p.a.), these corridors would be saturated about 1990 with the project
improvements.   Benefits  from  the  improvements  would  continue  beyond  this
point, but their magnitude would depend on the measures taken at that time
(e.g., additions to road capacity, priority given to public transport,
measures for car traffic restraint.)   Using a project life of only 5 years,
the ERRs on these two corridors are shown in Table 7.2.
Table 7.2: ERRs ON CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
|  Value of              Costs               | Misdar           |  Al Quds          l
| Time Savings                               | Street           |    Street
|  Base                   Base               |    87%           |       61%
-30%                  Base               |    61%                   46%
|  Base                   + 25%              |    70%           |       51%
I  -30%                   + 25%              I   48%            I       38%
These high returns are due largely to the high occupancy of public transport
vehicles (particularly to service taxis which on some links comprise more than
half of all traffic) and to high traffic volumes on these corridors for 10 to
12 hours each working day.  Traffic conditions and the proposed improvements
on the remaining three corridors are similar to those described above and the
ERRs should also be similar.
7.07     OtheBr Traffic _ImprLoement:   Benefits  of  the  improvements  to  the
staircases, access roads to low-income areas, and five isolated junctions have



- 23 -
not been quantified, and a straightforward engineering approach, based on
minimum service standards, was used to evaluate them.
upgrading Municipal Technical Departments
7.08     SD and ED:  The benefits of upgrading the design capacity of the SD
and the road maintenance capacity of the ED would consist of;
(a)  provision  of  more  cost-effective  designs  for  future  municipal
transport works;
(b)  reductions in future maintenance costs through (i) better engineering
of works, (ii) improved quality control of materials, (iii) improved
supervision ofE contract works and execution of force account works,
and (iv) a more targetted maintenance program based on better
information on. road conditions; and
(b) improvements in traffic movements and traffic safety through better
quality of road surfaces.
If these measures resulted in an annual saving of only one half of one percent
of the value of roads, this would come to JD 0.4 million per year, implying a
less than one and one half year payback on the cost of SD and ED contract
personnel and maintenance studies in the project.
7.09     M&ED:  The changes in management and maintenance of the vehicle fleet
associated with the M&ED component would yield efficiency gains to all
municipal technical departments. Only some gains have been quantified.   Cost
savings from expected increases in workshop staff productivity, reductions in
use of spares, and from fleet reductions made possible by faster maintenance
turnaround would, over a period of 5 years, yield an ERR of 54% on lthe cost of
equipment and civil works in upgrading the workshop.   If the savings were
reduced by 50%, the ERR would fall to 23%.
Solid Waste
7.10     Benefits  from the solid waste components are largely environmental
(para. 7.16) and are not readily quantifiable.
E'lanning, Investment Programming, and Training
7.11     The  studies  on  major  road  networks,  Amman  development  planning,
technical assistance, and training components, aggregating JD 2.4 million (10%
of project cost) are expected to yield substantial, but unquantifiable,
benefits in terms of more efficient urban investments and service delivery.
Overall Rate of Return
7.12     With the above ERRs on the major intersections, the CBD improvements,
t:he corridors, and the workshop component, the weighted rate of return on
ID 14.4 million of project investments (61% of project cost including price
contingencies) would come to 63%.



- 24 -
C. DISTRIBUTIONAL IMPACTS
7.13     The  major  intersections  component  would  benefit  motor  vehicle
passengers. The mix of private vehicles (serving higher income people) versus
public  transport  (serving  mainly  lower-income  people)  would  vary  from
two-thirds for north-western locations to less than a half for the eastern
(Nasr) intersection. 3ased on observed occupancies, passengers of public
transport vehicles would comprise from 55% to 85% of beneficiaries of this
component.
7.14     Pedestrians  are  major  beneficiaries  of  other  traffic  improvement
components.  For vehicle-related benefits, public transport users would be the
principal class of beneficiaries by virtue of taxis and buses accounting for
over 40%0 of the traffic, and their passengers accounting for over 75% of the
passengers  on all radial  corridors,  access  roads  to low-income  areas,  and
within the central area.
7.15     The benefits  of the  components  to upgrade  technical  services  and
solid waste management would be widely diffused.  Objective identification of
service deficiencies and measures to deal with them would be important aspects
of these components (and of the Amman development planning activities  to be
supported by the project).   This is expected to result in improved service
delivery in poorer neighborhoods where deficiencies are less well known under
existing informal information systems.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
7.16     The main  environmental  impacts  would  derive  from  the  solid waste
component.   The  landfill  sites  developed  under  the  project  would  replace
several existing uncorLtrolled dumps which pollute surface and groundwater
supplies, which are a breeding ground for vermin and insects, and which in
several   cases   constitute   an   aesthetic   nuisance.    By   introducing   an
environmentally sound disposal system, the project would not only remove a
source of pollution  in the Amman region,  but also establish a model which
could be repLicated in other parts of the country.
E. PROJECT RISKS
7.17     The fundamental project risk concerns the ability of AM to attract
and retain staff of the caliber required to plan and implement the project, to
maintain facilities in the future, and, more generally, to upgrade the
planning  and  operatiorn  of municipal  services  in  the  face  of unattractive
government pay scales and a strong market in Jordan and abroad for experienced
personnel of the types required.   The strategies adopted in this project to
deal with this problem are to: (a) make extensive use of technical assistance
in the early years to train relatively inexperienced municipal staff; (b) make
staff training a regular municipal function; (c) engagea Jordanian staff on
contract to perform important managerial functions, and (d) to engage
consultants for design and supervision of project works should this prove
necessary.  The success of the Municipality in dealing with this problem will
need to be carefully monitored.



- 25 -
7.18     Experience  with  the  First  Urban  Development  Project,  which  also
concerns the Municipality, indicates that there can be delays for reassessment
of policies  and  components  associated  with  government  changes.   Experience
with that project also indicates, however, that such delays need not be fatal
to ultimate project olbjectives and may even comprise a useful element in
deepening  the  Bank-Government  dialogue  on  policy  matters.   An  additional
ground for confidence in the present case is that the basic project concepts
and ideas, which were initially defined by the previous Lord Mayor, have been
fully adopted by his successor.
7.19     Uncertainties about the future rate of traffic growth give rise to
some uncertainty regarding the rates of return on the transport components.
Rates of return have been calculated on conservative assumptions, however, and
are robust with respecl: to reasonable downside risks.  At a more fundamental
level, the project aims to assist the Jordanian authorities to deal more
effectively with uncertainty by strengthening their capacities to formulate
t:ransport strategies, develop projects, and to manage traffic on a continuing
basis so that they can respond in a timely and appropriate fashion to changing
circumstances.
VIIL.  ASSURANCES SECURED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. ASSURANCES SECURED AT NEGOTIATIONS
8.01     The  Government  and  AM  would  formulate  a  5  year  plaLn  for  the
Mlunicipality's finances together with an implementation schedule, by March 31,
1L985 (para. 4.05)
8.02     AM would  strengthen  the  staff  of the  SD, ED, M&ED,  and  SWMP  in
accordance with the schedule of staffing presented in Annex 7, Table I
]{paras.3.10, 3.11, 3.13, 3.14, 3.15, and 3.18).
8.03     The Government: and AM would  engage  technical  assistance  personnel
Listed in Annex 7, ITable 2 with qualifications and terms of- reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.06).
9.04     AM would introduce a series of organizational and policy measures to
increase efficiency of the technical departments as described in Annex 7,
Table 3 (paras. 3.10, 3.11, 3.12 and 3.13).
8.05     The AM and the Government would forward to the Bank copies of studies
listed in Annex 7, Table 4, and exchange views on the implementation of their
recommendations (paras. 3.09, 3.16, and 3.17).
8.06     As regards the solid waste component,
(a) AM would.
(i)  prepare  guidelines   for  management  and  operation  of
sanitary landfills and a plan for the reclamation of the
Marka dump site for discussion with the Bank by December
31, 1983 (para. 3.15);



- 26 -
(ii)  establish user charges for full cost recovery of landfill
operations; implement a revised system for collection of
solid waste charges from households by December 31, 1984;
and introduce a revised tariff schedule for household
charges by January 1, 1986 (para. 4.06); and
(iii) establish the SWMD by December 31, 1983 (para. 3.15); and
(b) Government would ensure that other municipalities in the Amman
region make use of the disposal sites and make an appropriate
contribution to their cost (para. 4.06).
8.07     AM would forward to the Bank audited accounts no later than 6 months
following the end of each fiscal year (para. 6.11), quarterly progress reports
(para. 6.12), and a project completion report (para. 6.12).
B. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS
8.08     Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
AM (para. 4.04).
8.09     Actions  to  acquire  all  land  required  for  the  first  year  of
implementation (para. 6.07).
8.10     Establishment and staffing of the PCTU (para. 5.01).
C. DISBURSEMENT CONDITION
8.11     Disbursements on the traffic improvement schemes for the CBD would be
conditional upon final 'government approval of these schemes (para. 3.04).
D. RECOMMENDATION
8.12     Subject  to  the  above  assurances  and  conditions,  the  project  is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million for 17 years with four years of
grace to the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.



I           C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
|C               I W   X 2    '                1      o'                   a
I   *                                          - - - - - - -  - - -
- .                 -!                            lii   I g           I,        r t                            z        
no gsilE je                                                                                      0 11     .
__i      i                                 *n*aFor                                        _                               __ Ig s
-U -    -F-    -     - - - - - -              C                      -         -                  f W
woo~ ~ ~~~~~                          ~~~~~ - - - - - - -             - - -  j 
0                               a et                 o    a
0314  00  I      ~   ~       ~~~~ -     --   --------------                    P
p ^  " ^  -                 !     :' t                                         4eS^                          -X
j                      I~           ~~ I i                            KroM11      
I           0-a                                                   ~~~~~~~----- --
I o 1 1  33  I                                           -                                           I                     1  j
| ' 3                                                 -|  |   E                                                                               s
I   a-  -M 
m     e,                                              I , 4      .P
~~~-n m00   ea                             e-                                                -
I    tell-I I0                                                                                                                       0 
eeC  eq  I  ~ ~ 0I                      I
0  Ott~~~~~~~~0     
C-..-.  I     CC        t~~~~~~~~~~n I 



-28-                                                                       Annex 1
Table lB
JORDAN
ANM     TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART OF AMMAN MUNICIPALITY (MAY 1983)
|_ LORD
I    LORD MAYOR's                                            M AYOR   I
I       OFFICE           ---------------------------I                  ------------------------------   Cit  Council 
III                                                        I          I              I-'
_______________ __                      I                  I                                I i   |  | Standing Committees
I 7 .   I   I - Finance
_______________________  I  i               I      |   -   P:ocurement
| Urban Development    I                 I                    i                      I      | - Tenders
Department (UDD)        i-                                   i                     i -      - Eetimating (Land Acquisition)
I First Urban Develop-                           I    Under Secretary                         - Higher Committee of Master Plan
ment Project            I                       _                              i          I    (Policies)
I  I  | - Local Committee (detailed
j  j     |   planning and building approvals)
I                     I      | - Urban Development Project
I  I       opanies of Which Lord Mayor is
|  -----I              Chairman
-Arman Water and Sewer Authority
-Amman Development Corporation
------ - --- --------- ---- - ---- - --------- --------- --------- -----_-----_____________________________-  ________- __- __-
Assistant for Publicl                            |  Assistant for                                  I   Assistant for       j
----|Health and Services I                        ----|   Technical Services I                 -               Finance and |
j ___________         ____    A I|Administration    i
FinancXail
___________________           I      .................                                                                    Management:
||----|  Health Department i                      -----Project Coordination:                       I             Finance          '.--'Hana...
I      I_____               _ I                   I q   .& Training Unit         .                             _      _ __               _- Acn
I .                                                     I                                                                                    I  --   Accunt
1----jInsect & Rodent         i   i               1-    Engineering                                        - Administration       1--1
|Control Department                                  D I  |  Department   I                  I          _
-|___-|  Cultural                                        Mechanical & Elec-                         -       Estate Management  I
I :   |  Department           I                   |      Itrical Department !                              I  (expropriation)
-----i Parks and                                       IStudies and Plan-  i---
Gardens                                        In I  fing Department
I              _ _  _   _ _   _   _       I             I_             _ _  _ _   _ _
|.            -----|  Central Market    I                             I Building Licensing  I--- I
.................
I  ----   Solid Waste Manage-: 
|                    : ment Department
I l                  :-Planning & Control:
jIl                  :-Waste Disposal        :   |
9 Districts
---------  Responsible for solid waste collection, street cleaning, building licensing, health inspection, license control, and identi-
fying local proje^ts, under Distric: heads reporting directly to the Lord Mayor and to sectorsi departments as regards
specific functions.
T'he Municipality intends to create two new 1:echnical assistants, one for health and environmental control snd one for development planning,
within the uext two years.
Reporting relationships
........... t
to be established.
.. .. . :. .



-29-
Annex 1
Table 2A
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT (DECEMBER 1982)
|    DIRECTOR      I
I                   _    __                              
lAdministrationl   TRoads & Coordination    I I I         Constructionio T   FLaboratory
I     &        |   1(155 employees)          I I I       (75 employees)        I  I (9 employees)   I
I Clerical    I  1-direct labor               I | I-staircases,retainirng walls,I  Imaterials testingl
1(28 employees)|   I-supervision of contractl I I  sidewalks by direct
I  works                         labor and by contract
I-coordination of public I I
I  utilities             I I
| Traffic Engineering I     I       Gardens               I                              I    Drivers
| (69 employees)      I     I     (150 employees)  I      I  Bird Garden       I         I (146 employees)
I - road marking      I     I -plar.t nursery       I    I  (11 employees)   I           | heavy equipment
- traffic signs     I     I -planting shrubs and I         - municipal       |         | operators and
I - street signs      I     I  trees                I     I   aviary          I          I associated admin-
I - traffic signals   I     I                       I     I                   |          | istrative staff



-30-                                                                       Annex I
Table 2B
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Director         ---       Directors 
I            I  Office &    I
IAdministcationl
-                     j & 6 Accounts  I
r~                                                                                   I
|   Direct ilork5   I                                                                      Contract
I      Section       I                                                               I      Section
1,
IPlanning and     I         I    Traffic       I        I      Road        I    I Structures        I        I    Technical                   Projects
|Prograsing                    Engineering    I            Maintenance           I Meintenance                  Administration |         I (engineers
|-Laboratory                                                                       i I  I | cl. Building     I-Quantity Surveyl          I responsible
-Quality Controll           II                                             I    L Culverta, Side-I           I-Project                    for specific
I                           I                  I    I walks, Lightingl          I      Accounts   I         i    Projects)



-31-
Annex 1
Table 3
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE STUDIES DEPARTMENT
Director
TFlanniT  Section|           lProjects Sectionl          :Information               T Planning Appli-I           IDesign Section   F        TAdministration   I
I-Socio-economic I           I-Programming     I        :  Section         a        I   cations        I        i-Roads            I        I  Section
I-Transport        I         I-Development    I         :-Statistics                I-Drafting         I         I-Buildings       I        I-Personnel
I-Town Planning   I          I                  I       :-Library                   I-Survey            I       I-Special          I        I-Clerks           I
I                 I |   }  :                  :        I-Land Info.Filesi                                      I                  I
III  |            I        :                  ;        |I-Numbering&      I                           I        I                  I
........Naming                                                                      I        I
: ,; .   To be established



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 1
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AMMAN MUNICIPALITY FINANCIAL SCENARIO
1. Background
As in most developing countries, financial planning and forecasting in
Jordanian Municipalities is confined largely to annual budget exercises.
Budgets are used mainLy to ensure expenditures are made  in accordance with
financial  regulations  and  budget  ceilings.   There  is minimal  longer  term
financial forecasting as an aid to (a) setting investment priorities, (b)
seeking operating economies, or (c) developing strategies for raising revenues
to cover costs of municipal functions.  While this situation may be condoned
in smaller centers, il: requires urgent attention in Amman, a city of three
quarters of a million persons where efficient provision of urban services will
have a substantial impact on national economic growth as well as upon the
living standards of its inhabitants.
The following scenario was prepared in consultation with Municipality
staff to assess the Municipality's financial capacity to undertake the project
while carrying out other investments over the next few years.  The scenario
was intended to provide a basis for discussion of the financial plan for the
project.   The scenario indicates that with appropriate tax decisions on the
part of the Municipality and the Government, and with the financial plan
proposed for the project, the Amman Municipality should be able to handle a
growing investment program and even bear a reduction in the normal annual JD 3
million government grant by 1988.   Without tax changes. on the other hand,
government grants in the 1983-88 period would need to rise from the projected
JD  27.9  million  to JD  49.1  million  to maintain  expenditures;  otherwise,
reductions would need to be made in expenditures (14% of total expenditures or
29% of investment expenditures).
Basic Assumptions
Inflation is assumed at 8% annually, and growth of the population and need
for city services at 4% per annum.  Hence, the "base" assumption for growth in
revenue and expenditure items is 12% annually before taking account of special
factors.
2. Ordinary Revenues (Table 1)1/
(i)     Land and Building Tax. (currently 17% of rental value of built
lands,  and  10%  of  rental  value  of  vacant  land).   The  base
assumption is adoption by Government of the Amman Municipality
proposal of February 6, 1982, (reiterated in April 1983), which
would, in essence, imply a more energetic enforcement of
existing legislation, specifically:
(a) Increase the tax valuation base, which has not been reassessed
since 1966, to reflect the 1982 change in the rent  control  law,
1/   Tables 1-4 are at the end of this Annex.



- 33 -
Annex 2
Page 2
estimated to result in receipts of about JD 3.5 million in
1984.   The basis  for this  estimate  is  speculative.   In 1982,
receipts of this tax were JD 2.15 millicon, implying a rental
value of 2.15/.17 = 12.65 million.   If rental value is assumed
to be 6% of land value, this implies that the value o:E all real
estate in Amman Municipality is JD 211 million, or less than JD
1 per m2 (which is clearly more than one order of magnitude
less than the true figure).  Even if it is assumed that taxes
collected. come to only one half of assessments, the implied
value  of  property  is  far  too  low.   The  change  in  the  rent
control during 1982 is estimated to enablet a doubling of rents
on properties leased before 1975 and a similar increase in the
valuation of owner-occupied properties of the same vintage.
Such properties are assumed to account for 60% of the existing
tax  base.   Once  revaluation  for  tax  purposes  has  occurred
according to the new law, rental values would rise to JD 20.2
million (.6x12.65x2+.4x12.65) and tax revenues, with constant
tax rates, would rise to JD 3.4 million (.17x20.25).
(b) tax undeveloped land within the Municipality on the basis of an
imputed rental value of 6% of its capital cost, which would
imply an increase in land tax of about JD 2 million (undeveloped
land paid a tax of about JD 0.29 million in 1982; 30,000,000
in2 at JD 12.5 per m2 x.06 x.10 would yield rD 2.25 million).
Realizing  these  increases  would  require  considerable  effort  to  update
valuations and to improve collection rates, and so a gradual increase in
revenues  is assumed.   By 1987, however,  increases would be at 12% p.a.  to
reflect growth of the town and general inflation.
JD'000
1983        1984        1985        1986        1987       1988
Buiilding tax     2,300       3,150        3,850       4,215       4,635       -
Undeveloped
land tax         300         350         650          785       1,865        -
2,600       3,500       4,500       5,000       6,500      7,280
(ii)      Fuel  taxc, business  licenses,  sale of municipal  property,  and
"Other" are forecast to rise at 12% per annum (inflation plus
population growth).   In the case of the fuel tax, this would
require a specific government decision to increase Amman's
allocation on a steady basis.
(iii)       Planning fees and parking fees (mostly a fee paid by developers
in lieu of providing off-street parking) are assumed to rise in
line with inflation (at 8% p.a.)  since investment levels are
unlikely to increase significantly.



- 34 -
- Annex 2
Page 3
(iv)      Central market tax (4% of all sales in the central vegetable
market)  is  forecast  to  rise  at  10%  per  annum  to  reflect
possible substitution to processed goods not passing through
this market.
(v)      Betterment levies are assumed to rise rapid].y from 1982 to 1985
to reflect the Municipality's efforts to secure more cost
recovery from road and sidewalk construction, thereafter to
grow at 12% p.a.
(vi)      an  increase  of  over  7 times  is  anticipated  in  solid waste
receipts due to (a) improvements in collection methods, (b)
increases in monthly fees to an equivalent: of JD 1 (in 1983
prices) per household by 1986, with total revenues rising
thereafter at 12% per annum-11, and (c) charging fees to other
municipalities disposing of solid waste in landfill sites
operated by Amman Municipality sufficient to recover costs of
investment,   operation   and   maintenance   of   those   sites
(approximately JD 1.2 per ton in 1983 prices 2/).
3.  Ordinary revenues without policy improvements.  land and building rental
tax, fuel tax, solid waste fees and betterment charges would rise at only 8%
per annum.  The difference between these assumptions and the base assumptions
of para. 2 above woul-d amount to JD 6.8 million in 1988, and to JD 21.2
million over the 1983-88 project period.
4. Other Receipts (Table 3, Rows A2-4);
(a)  ordinary  grants  are assumed  to continue  al: JD 3 million  per
annum to 1987, and to fall to JD 1.5 million in 1988.
(b)  Project  grant  at  JD  11.4  million  comprises  a  government
contribution of all project costs over and above disbursements
on the Bank loan (JD 10.7 million) and the Municipality
1/   This  does not  imply  that  all households  would  need  to pay JD  1 per
month.   Indeed,  it would be preferable  to establish a system in which
poorer households and/or those which generate less solid waste pay less.
Such a result might be achieved by making solid waste charges a
proportional surcharge on electricity or water bills.
2/                                                 1979  1985  1986  1987  1988
Urban Population; Amman City ('000)            625   791   812   855   889
Other Municipalities   ('000)           505   639   665   691   719
Total Amman Region       ('00-0        1,130 1,430 1,477 1,546 1,608
Population of Other Municipalities
disposing waste project in landfill
sites (%)                                    -       40    60    70    80
Revenues from other municipalities
(.65 kg/capita, fee of JD 1.2/ton
in 1983 prices, inflation at 8%
annually) (JD'000)                          -       85   143   184   240



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 4
contribution   which   would   cover   land   for   road   works,
professional services for design and supervision of traffic
improvements, and costs of contract staff.
(c)    existing loans; JD 1.7 million expected to disburse in 1983.
(d)    Bank loan of JD 10.7 million disbursed at 50% of civil works
and the foreign cost of equipment expenditures.
(e)    other Loans:  none assumed for this analysis.
(f)    overdraft:    (Table  3,  Row  C)  is  assumed  to  cover  the
difference between receipts and expenditures.   Interest paid
on overdraft  (and received on cash balances)  is assumed at
9.5%.
5.       Operating Expenditures (Table 3, Row B1) are assumed to rise at 10%
per annum  (i.e.,  allowing  an  increase  in productivity  of  2%).   Over  the
1983-88 period, this productivity increase would generate savings of JD 3.2
million.  Operating expenditures in 1983 are estimated at JD 8 million.  They
include some expenditures classified as "project" expenditures in the existing
accounting system but which really relate to operating items (e.g., purchase
of materials for road maintenance).
6.       Land  Costs  (Table  3,  Row  B2)  estimated  at  JD  8.75  million  in
1983-1987  are  payments  for  land  already  acquired  as  of  late  1982,  plus
interest on overdue payments.
7.       Debt Service (Table 3, Row B3);  This includes  the debt service on
existing loans according to information provided by the Municipality and on
the Bank loan of JD 10.7 million. The servicing of the Bank loan assumes a
front-end fee of 0.25%, a commitment charge on the undisbursed balance of
0.75%, an interest rate of 10.97%, and, from November 1, 1987, repayment of
principal in 26 equal semi-annual installments.
JD'OOO
')83     1984       1985       1986       1987      1988
Existing loans
Interest            356        156        134       116         98         80
Principal         2,473        573        520        510       500        300
Total             2,829La      729        654        626       598        380
Bank Loan
Interest, fees       40         89        307       729        904       1009
Principal.                                                     411        822
Total                40         89        307        729     1,315      1,831
/a   Of which the Petra Bank loan accounts for JD 2000 principal arLd
JD 261 interest.



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 5
8.               Investments are estimated at JD 72.7 million over the 1983-88
period.  Of this, the project would amount to JD 23.4 million.  The contents
of the investment program are shown in Table 2.
9.               Budgetary  Balance;   Table  3  shows  the  Municipality's  cash
flows  on  the  above  assumptions.   Ignoring  overdrafts,  there  would  be  a
substantial deficit in 1983 (to repay a loan to the Petra Bank), surpluses in
1984 to 1987,  and a small deficit  in 1988  (Table 3,  line  C2).   Assuming
deficits are financed by overdrafts at 9.5%, the Municipality would be in
overall surplus by the end of 1985 (Table 3, line C4).
10.              Project: Period  Summary;   Table  4  summarizes  the  municipal
receipts and costs on the above assumptions for the whole 1983-88 period.  The
table highlights the critical importance of Amman's achieving increases in
ordinary revenues.  Without these improvements, the municipality would suffer
a major deficit of JD 23 million.  This would seriously inhibit the capacity
o- the Municipality to carry out its regular functions, or to undertake the
project.  With the increases assumed, the Municipality would comfortably cover
its  investment  and  operating  costs  over  the  period  (with  productivity
increases).  Without the 2% annual increase in productivity, the Municipality
would need to find an additional JD 1.2 million to finance the program
described in this annex.



37-
ANNEX 2
JORDAN                                           TABLE I
AMMIAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASAN MUNICIPALITY ORDINARY REVENUES 1981-1988 IJD'OOO)
STEM                                                     1981      1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987      1988
1. WITH POLICY CHANGES
IA) LAND AND BUILDING TAX                               1814      2442     2600     3500     4500      5000     6500     7280
(B) FUEL TAX                                            1500      lse     2065     2313     2590      2901     3249     3639
IC) BUSINESS. LICENSES                                  1074      1097     1299     1455      1629     1825     2044     2289
(D) BUILDING, PLANNING AND SUBDIVISION PEES             1264      1158     1325     1431      1545     1669     1803     1947
CE) PARKING MEES                                         516      484      550       594      642      693       748      8GB
(IF) BETTERMENT FEES ON ROADS AND SIDEWALKS              312       422      525      500 go   1000     1120     1254      L405
(D) CENTRAL MARKET TAX                                  1770     2044      2200     2420     2662      2928    31221     3543
IH) SOLID WASTE RECEIPTS:1I) CONSUMERS                   389       225      305      700      1400     1854     2076     2326
121 IMNICIPAILITIES                                                   85      143      187       240
(1) SALE OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY                           227       365      390      437       489      548      614      687
(J) OTHER                                                934      1258     1241     1390      1557     1744     1953     2187
(K) TOTAL                                               9800    11383    12500    15038    18l00    20425    23650    26352
2. WITHOUT POLICY CHANGES
(A,) ITEMS IA,18, iF &IH RISE AT 8% P. A.               4015S    4977      S495     5935     6409      6922     7476     8074
(B) OTHER REVENUES AS ABOVE                             5785     6406      7005     7727     6524      9407    10382    11462
(C) TOTAL                                               9800    11383    12500    13661    14934    16329    17'858    19536
3. WITH LESS WITHOUT                                            0        0        0      1378     3166     4096     5791      6816
JORDAN                                             TABLE 2
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AMMAN MUNICIPALITY INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES (JD'OoO)
ITEM                                                      1981     1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987      1988
A. INDEPENDENT OF PROJECT
I LAND ACQUISITION                                          2035        40      500
2  TRANSPORT
(A) SIGNAL LIGHTS                                         219        68      250
IS) INTERCHANGES                                          218       488
(C) UPPORADING ROADS INCL. MAINTENANCE 81-83             1682       127      682                         333      914     1300
(D) ROAD MAINTENANCE                                                                  300                878      995      1190
IE) SIDEWALKS. FENCES, WALLS, STAIRCASES                  360       679      900
IFP  NEW ROADSCINCL. NEW STAIRS, WALLS ETC AFTER 1983)    1602     2340      750     1000      1500     2200     3100     4000
(0) SUB-TOTAL  TRANSPORT                                 4081      3702     2582     1300      1500     3411     5009     6490
3. CULVERTS AND DRAINAGE                                      388      348      500      540       583      630      680       735
4. EQUIPMENT                                                 1079      163      200      250       300      300      325       350
5. STRUCTURES                                                 113      201      300      324       350      378      408       441
6. MAJOR PROJECTS                                                               500      1000     1500     2000     2500      3000
7. INVESTMENTS                                                170      216      235       170      200      250      300       350
8. CONSULTANCIES                                                9       25      140      250       270      300      330       350
9. OTHER CEG EMERGENCIES)                                    1591       59     1200      950      1045     1150     1264      1391
10. TOTAL                                                   9466      4754     6157     4784     3,748     8418    10817    13106
B. PROJECT-RELATED EXPENDITLURES
1. LAND ACQUISITION                                                             162      162
2. TRANSPORT
IA) SIGNAL LIGHTS
,8) INTERCHANUES                                                             208     1065     3273      3528     2051      725
IC) UPGRADING ROADS, TRAFFIC IMPIOVEMENTS                                            1032      1550     1275      712
ID) ROAD MAINTENANCE,I NC. TA & CONTRACT STAFF IN ED                          40      451      741       492      216       47
CE) SIDEWALKS, FENCES, WALLS, STAIRCASES                                               58       178       65
CF) NEW RDADS (STUDY OF ARTERIAL ROADS)                                               313      851
tG) SUB-TOTAL TRANSPORT                                                      248     2919     6593      5360     2979      772
3. CULVERTS AND DRAINAGE
4. EQUIPMENT
(A) SOLID WASTE (INCL. CIVIL WORKS)                                           90     1016      1113      546       29        5
(B) WORK SHOP (INCL. CIVIL WORKS)                                             10      100
5. STRUCTURES
6. MAJOR PROJECTS
7. INVESTMENTS
B. CONSULTANCIES, T. A. , TRAINING. 1k PROF. SERV. NES
(A) STUDIES DEPT AND DEVELOPMENr PLANNING                                     78      326      225       112       93       41
1B) PROJECT COORDINATION 6 TRAINING UNIT                                      55       84       75        69       69       33
9. OTHER lEG EMERGENCIES)
10. TOTAL                                                                       643     4607     8006      6087     3170      851
C. TOTAL INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE
1. LAND ACQUISITION                                         2035        40      662      162         0        0        0        0
2  TRANSPORT
(A) SIGNAL LIGHTS                                         219        68      250        0         0        0        0        0
,B) INTERCHANGES                                          218       498      208     1065     3273      3528     2051      725
CC) UPGRADING ROADS, TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS                1682       127      682     1032     1550      1608     1626     1300
ID) ROAD MAINTENANCE                                        0         0       40      751      741      1370     1211     1237
CE) SIDEWALKS, FENCES, WALLS, srAIRCASES                  360       679      900       58       178       65        0        0
IF: NEW ROADS                                            1602      2340      750     1313     2351      2200     3100     4000
DI) SUB-TOTAL TRANSPORT                                  4081     3702      2830     4219     8093      8771     7988     7262
3. CULVERTS AND DRAINAGE                                      388      348      500      540       583      630      680       735
4. EQUIPMENT                                                 1079      163      200      250       300      300      325       350
(A) SOLID WASTE CINCL. CIVIL WORKS)                         0         0       90     1016      1113      546       29        5
(B) WORK SHOP IINCL  CIVIL WORKS)                           0         0       1o   lo   o         0        0        0        0
5. STRUCTURES                                                 113      201      300      324       350      378      408       441
6. MAJOR PROJECTS                                               0        0      500      1000     1500     2000     2500      3000
7. INVESTMENTS                                                170      216      235       170      200      250      300       350
8. CONSLLTANCIES, T. A, TRAINING, 6 PROF. SERV. NES             9       25      140      250       270      300      330       350
(A) STUDIES DEPT AND DEVELOPMENr PLANNING                   0         0       78      326      225       112       93       41
(B) PROJECT COORDINATION AND TRAINING UNIT                  0         0       55       84        75       69       69       33
9. OTHER (EO E"ERGENCIES)                                    1591       59     1200      950      1045     1150     1264      1391
10. TOTAL                                                   9466      4754     6800     9391    13754    14505    13987    13957
NES-NOT ELSEWHERE SPECIFIED



-38-                                         ANNEX 2
JORDAN                                         TABLE 3
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AMMAN MUNICIPALITY RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES 1581-88 (JD0OOO)
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__----------_.------------------------------------
ITEM                                                  1981     1982    1983    1984       1985    1986    1987    1988
A. INFLOWS
1. ORDINARY RECEIPTS(TABLE I.ROW 1(K)                    9800    11383   12500   15035    18100   20425   23650   26352
2. ORDINARY GRANTS                                       3000    3000    3000    3000    3000    3000    3000    1500
3. PROJECT-RELATED GRANTS                                                   593    2068    4018    2815    1568         297
4. LOANS:(A) EXISTING                                    4000      300    1700
(B) WORLD BANK                                                             2246    3685    2990    1337        422
(C) SUB-TOTAL.LOANS(EXC.OVERDRAFTS, ROW C)      4000      300    1700    2246    3685    2990    1337          422
5. TOTAL INFLOWS                                        16800   14683   17793   22353   28803   29230   29555   28571
B. OUTFLOWS
I. OPERATING EXPENDITURES                                7965    7285    8014    8815    9697    10667   11733   12907
2. COST OF LAND ACQUIRED BEFORE 1982                              1750    1750    1750    1750    1750    1750
3. DEBT SERVICE:(A) EXISTING LOANS                        479      961    2829      729      654      626      598      380
(B) BANK                                                     40       89     307      729    1315    1831
(C) SUB-TOTAL(EXCL.OVERDRAFTS)            479      961    2869       e18     961     1355    1913    2211
4. SUB-TOTAL, OPERATING EXPS & FIXED OBLIGATIONS         8444    9996   12633    11383   12408   13772   15396    15118
5. INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES
(A) INTERSECTIONS                                        0        0      208    1065    3273    3528    2051         725
(B) OTHER PROJECT EXPENDITURES                           0        0      435    3542    4733    2559       1119      126
(C) OTHER EXPENDITURES                                9466    4754    6157    4784    5748    8418    10817   13106
ID) SUB-TOTAL INVESTMENTS                             9466    4754    6800    9391    13754    14505    13987    13957
6. TOTAL OUTFLOWS (BEFORE OVERDRAFTS)                   17910   14750   19433   20774   26162   28277   29383   29075
C. OVERDRAFT
1. OVERDRAFT (-) START OF YEAR, BEGINNING 1983                                    -1718    -227    2517    3755    4291
2. ADDITION(-)/DECREMENT(+) DURING YEAR(A5 -86)                           -1640    1579    2641       953      171    -504
3. INTEREST (9.5% ON AVG. BALANCE)                                          -78     -88      104      284      365      384
4. OVERDRAFT AT END OF YEAR (CI+C2+C3)                                    -1718    -227    2517    3755    4291    4170
D. MEMO ITEMS
1. RECURRENT SURPLUS (AI-BI)                             1835    4098    4486    6224    8403    9758    11916   13445
2. ORDINARY REVENUES - OP. EXPS.&FIXED JBLIONS(AI-B4)    1356    1387    -133    3656    5692    6653    8253    11234
---------------------------------------._-------------------------__---------__------------------------------------------------
JORDAN                         TABLE 4
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AMMAN MUNICIPALITY SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS & EXPENDITURES '83-88(JDOO0)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__--
WITH IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT IMPROVEMEN    WITH LESS WITHOUT
IN FINANCIAL POL- IN FINANCIAL POL-
ICIES             ICIES
A. INFLOWS
1. ORDINARY RECEIPTS               116065            94818             21247
2. ORDINARY GRANTS                  16500            16500                 0
a. PROJECT GRANT                    11359            11359                 0
4. BANK LOAN                        068O             10680                0
5. TOTAL INFLOWS                   154604           133357             21247
B. OUTFLOWS
1. OPERATING EXPENDITURES           61833            65035             -3202
2. LAND COSTS                        8750             8750                 0
3. DEBT SERVICE                     10127            10127                 0
4. INVESTMENTS                      72395            72395                 0
(OF WHICH PROJECT)              23364             23364                 0
5. TOTAL OUTFLOWS                  153104           156307             -3202
C. SURPLUS/DEFICIT(EXC. OD)             1500           -2295D             24450



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
The following talbles provide details on project costs:
Table 1      Major Intersection Improvements
Table 2      Traffic Improvements
Table 3      Design of Road Networks
Table 4      Upgrading Municipal Technical Departments
Table 5      Solid Waste Management
Table 6      Amman Development Planning
Table 7      Project Coordination and Training Unit
Table 8      Project Component by Time
Table 9      Suumiary Account (Land, Civil Wbrks, Equipment,
Professional Services, Technical Assistance,
Training, Contract, Staff and Operational
Sevices) by Time
Table 10     Summary Account by Project Component



-40-                                                                                                      Annex  3
-WD                                                                                                       Tables  I & 2
WAO TO/SKT tMI IMICIP M.  WLW  PRCTY
Table 1. MMA   INTEOSCTI8I I OREREMAT
Detaile6 Cost Table
Das Costs                             Totals Including Costinascin
Isastita                                       (J.1..  00)                                      (J.I.'00)Ps
____________-- IOdit -                               ---------------- -------Cost. for.   Geos   S,marv
LBnit 83/84 04/85858  86/ 87 87/88 Total Cast 8/4 84/85   85/86   86/87  87/88  Total   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/7   87/08   Total   Rate  Eoch. Tao Rate Accouto~
A.PORTS CITY
CIVIL WEB                                                                - 1,248.0 1,248.0        -      - 2,496,0       -16476.0 1,798,5         -        - 3,474.5   0.2  0.55        0.1      CV
8. 80S5E0 CIRCLE
CIVIL WES                                                                    -   -1,346.8 1,654.6  846,6 3,848.0             -  -1,940.9 2,549,0 1,393.2  5,883.8   0.2  0.55           0.1      CM
C. 085  IRTERCI8B8
LAN                                                                  52.0        -       -        -      -    52,0 64,9          -        -       -       -      64,9 0,2       0       0.1    LAD
CIVIL WORS-   234.0    78,0                                                                      -      - 312.0         -   314.3   112.4        -        -    426.7   0.2  0.55       0.1      cM
Iab-Total WAR8 IATERCWAGAE                                               52,0   234.0    /8.0        -       - 364.0   64,9   314.3   112.4          -             491,6
S. TAIlS CIRCLE
CIVIL  MES                                                               -    46.8   265.2        -      -   312.0       -    62.9   302.2        -        -    445.0   0.2  0.55       1,1      CA
E. DES1GN                                                               200.0       -        -       -      -200.0 207,8            -        -                -    207.8     0       0.8     0      TA
F. SUPERVISION                                                              -    61.2   117.5    66.2   33.9   276.7        -    82.3   170.4   103.2    56.8    412,6   0.2  0.25           0      PS
Total IVEITMAT COSTS                                                       232,0 1,594.0 3,02555 1,720.8  80.4 7.490,7  2712,7 2,135.4 4,404,3 2,633.0 1,449.9 10,913.3
aM TOMKWV M O 001190 EJELDENE PROECT
Table 2. TRAFFIC I18809(8T
Datailed Cost Table
Bas  costs                          Totals Ion uding Coatiowocins
guatita                                            (J.). '0001                                    1J.D. 1.000)                   Phe..
_________________--                        ----- ~~~~~~~~Cast. For.   Bross   Simmer
lUnt  82/04 84/85895/86864/87 87/88 Total Linit Cost 83/8    W485   MM0   U/6/7  07/88  Total   82/84   84/85   85/86  86/87  87/88  Total   RaeA  loch. Tao Rate Acco,ut
A. 00890 86511E6S DISTRICT
CIVIL WORKS                                                                               134.4   322.5   215.0       -      - 671.8  153.6   397.0   204.0                     a  64.6   0.1  0.55      0.1      CA
EQUIPMENT                                                                                     -    71.2    71.2       -      - 142.5         -    87,5    92.6       -       - 181.2   0.1   0.9        0,01      ED
S,.b-Total CENTRAL 80011(0  DISTRICT                                                         134,4   393.7   286.2       -      - 814.1  153.6   484.5   377.6          -       -1,015.8
B. PIVE CC8IWI
CIVIL WOES                                                                                174.7   364.0   364.0  164.0  189,3 1,456.0  208,8   468,5   502.7  537.6  298.5 2.016,1  0.15  0.55           0.1      CA
E88199(8                                                                                      -    59.    1019.    59.5          238.2       -    76.5  1462.6   87,1I      -   337.2  0,05   0.9      1.D1       EU
Sub-Totol FIVE CMIEO                                                                         174.7   423.5   483.   433.1  189,3 1,694.2  208.8   545.0   466.3  624.6  290.1 2,343.2
C .STAIRCASE IWRQ9(0I5
CIVIL OM1                                                                                     -    88.4   06.4   44.2        -   331.0       - I1138   122.    61.3         - 301.1  0.15  1.55          0.0      cA
D. IBtTED IATrSECTIO8S
CIVIL  MES                                                                                    -    57,2   137.3   24.3       - 228.8              73.6   1809,6   50.7      - 313.9  0.15  0.55         0.1       CA
E8819P(81                                                                                     -       -    45.8       -      -    45,8       -       -    62.9       -       -    62.9  0. 15   0.9    0.01       El
Sub-Tota  ISMLATED INT8SCTIE8S                                                                   -    57.2   183.0   24.3       -274,6          -    73.6  :52.5   50.7         -376.8
E. LU I01 DES AMCSS
LMAN-    38,.5                                                                                                -  -       -        38.5       -    43.2       -  -        -       43.2      I     0       0.1     LOI
CIVIL VMS                                                                                     -    953.   194.4       -      -290.2          - 123.2   2.5           -       - 41%.7  0.15  1.5          0.1      CO
Sub-Total LOU I9(3  NMA  ACCESS                                                                  1-134.~2  19.4          -      -    2.6        - 166.5  :160.5         -       -424,9
F.  9UE881I51is' 15 512.9    61.8   25.1    9.    164.7   18.1    67.7    85.1 137.2   11.1   233.3  0.14  0.25                                                                                               0      Ps
8. TRAFFIC TRAIAIrN
COM S/a                          CORB        -     -     I     I      -     2  49.92          -       -49.9   49.9           -    9,0        -       -    39,6 63.3         - 133.8        0     1         0      TR
P31I88 TECUIC6IL ASSIST  /6        88        2     4     4     4      -    14     5,200   10.4    24.8    20.8   28.80            72.8   10.      23.3    24.9   26.5       -   85.5       0   0.0         0      TA
LErA  TEC0N1C&0ASSIST              88       I      1     1     1I           4     2,060    2.1      2.1     2.1    2.1       -     8.3    2.2      2.3     2,5    2.7       -    9.7       0     V         0      TA
S6.-Total TRAFFIC TUINIIM                                                                     12.5    23.9    72.8   72.8       - 181.0   13.0    25.6    87.0   92.5           -218.1
Total INOETHEMT CAISI                                                                           237,0 1,172.9 1,269.7  606,0  590;, 3.671,4  592.  5,476.6 1.859 .1  870.3  252.6 4,93.
/a  TAILOR-AK  6 ATOn  CUS FOR 5 IRAIN10
Ab 269 831AMI1 18M/4, RONSTIC TOAININS UERK LATER



-41-                                                                                      Annex 3
Tables 3 & 4
6N9W  TRANSPDRT AND IU9ICIPAL DEYELCP.EltT PRGJECT
Table 3. DESIGN OF RU0D ETI9IAS
Detailed Cost Table
Ds Costs                       TotalS Inclsding Contisaencin
Osastits                                      WJ.D. '000)                              IJ.. '000)                 Phu,
Cost. For.  hSms   S,man
thit 83/84 84/85 85/96 86/87 87/80  Total Unit Cost 83/84  84/B5  85/B6 86/87 87/88 Total  9W4  84/85  85186  86/87 87/88 Total  Rate Exch, Tax Rate Atwt
=:S = __ =z=   == =-:- ==   =  =:=  ==== ===-==  =C-.  =Tz  mm s=s                          ==_==             = zzz==  =-=  ===== =z===== z===:
A. FEASIBILITY AND DESIGN STUDIES
__--    -  ------__  _ __    _
F99EE09 CO9SlLTMTS               MR    40   50   10    -         -   100    5,200  208.0  260.0  52.0       -    -   520.0  216.1  290.6  62.2       -    -   569.0      0  0.8         0      TA
LOCAL CISII.LTM4TS               99    50  140   SO        -      -  260     1.872  93.6  262.1  168.5       -    -   524.2  97.3  294.2  204.0      -    -  595.6    0   0.1           0      TA
* Sb-Tot3l FEASIBILITY ND DES16N STUDIES                                               301.6  522,1 220.5               1,044.2  313.4  594,8  266.3    -       1,164.6
Total litYEST101T COSTS                                                                   301.6  522.1  220.5      -    - 1,044.2  313.4  584.8 266.3       -    - 1,164.6
-   _==m=  ====O====            ===z== --  -      == ==== =           =
JORDM
A9W) TRM48908T AND 9     1M.CIPAL DE9ELYltENT PROJECT
Table 4. UP0RDIN6 liUNICIPAL TECMICAL DEPTS.
Detailed Cost Table
bDse Costs                       Totals Incluodin  Continoseoces
guant:.t'  (J.D. '000)                                                                    IJ.D. '000)                Phs.
---------- --        -     -- ----                             - -  -  -------- ----------------- ----- ---------C-t-------  Fcnt, hr,  DGross  S  ars
Unit  83/84 84/95 85/86 816/87 87/88 TDtal hnit Cost 83/B4  84/85  B5/86  86/87 B7/88 Total  83/84  84/85  I5/86  86/87  87/89  Total  Rate Exch. Tax Rate Ackount
A. ENSINEERIN6 DEPMRTENT
RDA MI9NTENMNCE EOUIPKOT /a                                                                  296.4      -      -    -   296.4       -  347.6      -      -      -   347.6  .05  0.95      0.01      El
99ALITY CUNTROL EQUIP.                                                                    -  52.0  52.0        -    -   104.0       -   61.0  65.2       -      -   126.2  0.05  O.95     0.01      El
SIMi Vl91tlP E01PIENt                                                                   5.2    5.2      -      -    -    10.4   6.2    6.7        -      -      -    12.9  0.15   0.9    0.01       El
AINTEOWNCE STUDIES                                                                        -  50,7  27.3        -    -    78,0       -  56.8  32.8        -      -    89.6     0   0.5        0      TA
98D RENAB, CONTR9ATS                       -                                              -  195.0  390.0  195.1     -  780.0       -  218.2  46B.4  250.4      -   937.0     0  0.55      0.1      C9
AIItEiW400 ADVISOR               Nt        6    12     -     -    -    18      5,200   31.2  62.4       -            -   93.6  32.4  69.8         -      -      -   102.2     0   o.8        0      TA
SBl CONtRACT ENERS-OPS          KM98     3,5     7    7      7     7 31.5    9.320   29.1   58.2  58.2  58.2  58.2  262.1  30.3  65.4  70.6  76.3   82.4  325.1               0    0         0    CPC
TRAFFIC TECMICIMS               KM0        2    4      4    4      4    19     2,080    4.2    8.3    8.3   9.3  8.3   37.4   4.3    9.3  10.1  10.9   11.8   46.4            0    0         0    CPC
Sub-Taia1 EnGINEERING 8EPART91NT                                                          69.7  723.3 5JI,9  261.6  66.6 1,661.9   73,2  934.8  647.1  337.6  94.2 1,986.9
8. nEcN AND ELECT DEPARTEN3t
MSND    E991PN9T__                                                                     10.4  31.2       -      -    -    41.6  11.3  36.6         -      -      -   47,9  0.05  0.95      0.01      ED
l.9SNP CIOIL M49S--                                                                    52.0             _      _     -   52.0  62.1        -          -         -   62.1  0.15  0.55       0.1      CJ
S,b-Toial KCM  9ND ELECT DEPARTI19T                                                       62.4  31.2       -      -     -   93.6  73.5  36.6         -      -      -   110.1
C. STU311ES DEPART9
SNR CUTFTACT EM;9S-DESI8N        9YR       1    2      2    2      2    9      B,320    8.3  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6    74.9   8.7  18.7  20.2  21.8  23.5   92.9              0    0         0    OPC
JLIICR TRAFFIC EdilNEERS         NYR       1    2      2    2      2    9      4.160    4.2   8.3   8.3   8.3   8.3   37,4    4.3    9.3  10.1  10.9  11.8   46.4             0     0        0    WC
'W9FIC EN3RINli AD0IS9 R         99        9    9       -    -     -   18      5,200   46,8   46.8      -      -     -   93.6  48.6  52.3         -      -      -   100.9         0.8        0      TO
TRNFIC SIBNAL SPECIALIST         MN         2     2     -    -      -    4      5,200   10.4  10.4       -      -    -    20,9   90.9  11.6        -      -      -    27.4    0   0.8         0      TA
TRffFIC E       0RI 194 TRAININ6  TRAINEE   I    I      I    I    I    5       4,160    4.2    4,2   4.2    4.2   4.2   20.8   4.3   4.6    5.0    5.3   5.6   24.8           0     1        0      TR
Sub-Tolal STUDIES DEPART8FNT                                                              73.8  86,3  29.1  29.1  29.1  247.S  76.7  96.6  35.2  39.0  40.9  287.5
Total IN'JiSTNEN COSTS                                                                      205.9  845.8  563.0  M.7  95.7 2,083.0  223.5  969.0  682.4  375.6  135,1 2,384.5
/a kt=ZR3 JD 50hi NEATER-PLAM8ERSORAiDER, 35Ki 2 COWESSORS  1OKi2 LOADIII S99 LS.  SOlil TROAXATOR, 45Ki
ALL IN .JAWN TY I99 PRICES



Annex 3
Tables 5 S 6
-42-
WAM  TRPM    T MAD OICIPML   OIfUEDiET PRCJECT
Table 5. S01D WASTE N64T8E118
Detailel Cot Table
aE  costs                      Ttals IrtluodiiM  Contion4   ies
lantits                                       (J.D. '000)                                8.1. '000)                 Phn.
_      _    _ --     __ __  _C_-                                        t. For.   Beoss   SVmas
Unit   B3/84 B4/85 85/6686/787/88 Totl Unit Cost 831/4 94/85  85/86  86/87 87/88 Total   B3/84   64/85  8S/O  86/87 87/88 Total  Rate  Exch, Tao Rate Aeoat
A. COLLECTIIN E8UIPEIIT
17 43 CDfCTUS                   TRtfl      17   18    -    -        -   35    20600  353.6  374.4        -     -    -   728.0  385.7  439.0         -     -    -   924.7  8.05  0.95     0.01      EQ
HDIST T1PE VEHICLES             TR1SX       -    -    7       -           7     16,720     -      - 131.0      -    -   1310        -       -  563                  164.3  0.05  6.95     0.01      ED
Sub-Total ClLECTION ECUIPIEIT                                                             35S.6  374.4  I1.0.     -    -  859.0  385.7  439.0  1643          -    -   m.0
8. DISPDS4L S6TE0
- LAD-                                                                    -            208.0      -      -        -      208.0 216.3        -       -    -    - 216.3    0         0      0.1     LN)
WEI-H8RIDBE                    VEIR883      -    1      1    -I           2    10,400      -   10.4  10.4      -    -    20.8       -    12.2   13.0      -    -    25.2  8.05   0.9    0.01        E0
DWTRS                           TRC         -     3    4      -           7    15,640      -  46.8  62.4       -    -   109.2       -   54.8   782,   -    -   13S.1  O.05  O.5          0.01      ED
9S1   LOAMRS                   I.8          -    2    3                   5   26,060       -  52.0  78.0       -    -   130.0       -    61.0   97. 8                      t.156, ,05 0.95  0.01    E6
DAIIOZMS                      BLUWZER       -     3    3                  6   52,000       -156.0  156.0       -    -312.0          -   182.  195.6       -    -   37.s  .05 0.95        0.01      EQ
/CCESS RD4DS                     Km         5    10    5      -          20    20-800  104.0  206.0  104.0     -    -   416,0  124.3  267.7  143.6        -    -   535.6  0.15  0.5      0.1       CU
WFICE, FDICES, AN LEM EINS                        -    -      -           -                -  96.1  195.1      -    -   291.2       -   123,7  269.4      -    -  393.1  0.15  0.55       0.1      CW
Sb-Total DlSPiE4L SITES                                                                   312.0  569.3  605.9     -    - 1,467.2  340.6  702.4   m77         -    - 1,840.7
C. REMAC1.TIAO  VYA DUnSITE                    -    -    -             -                      -  26.0  52.0  26.0       -   104.0      -   33.5   71.B  38.4      -   143.7  0.15  0.55      0.1      CU
D. D18T801R S.8.MNT.IEPMITEI        80YR     0,5     1    1      1    1  4.5    7,4988    3.7    7.5   7.5   7.5  7.5   33.7   3.9    8.4    9.1   9.8  10.6   41.8             0     0        0      UPC
Total OAI3ST0ENT COSTS                                                                       66Y.3  977.2 796.4  33.5  7.5 2,483.9 730.2 1,183.3 1,042.9  48.2  10.6 3,015.2
WM  T8MWiOT MND HUNICIP4L DEYVELIPIT PRIJECT
Table 6. AMHAN DEVEtDPHT PLIINO
3rtuild Cost Table
BEe Costs                   Totals Includiti Continrdibis
8wtits                                       (J.,. 'J8)                             0.,. '000)                9,
______                                                      -        -----------                   Cont. For.  Gmos   Suinr
Unit  83/84  4/85 85/86 86/87 E7/8  TDoI Unit Cost 83/84  84/85  85/8i 86/87 87/88 Total  83/84  84/85  85/O6 86/87 87888 Total Rat  Exch. Tax Rat Aceo
A. 6ITISIIiL  MUIU STAFF    llt         3.5     7    7    7       7  31.5    4,160   14.6  29.1  29.1  29.1  29.1  131.0  15.1  32.7  35.3  38.2  41.2  16.5         0    0         0     DPt
D. TECtE414  4iISTMCE
TM     T FWilER              N         9    9    -    -        -    18    5,200  46.8  46.8        -     -    -93.6 46.6   52.3           -    -      -100.9    0 0.8            0      TA
ECt0ST                       IR        9  12       3    -    -      24    5,200   46.8      4  15.6      -     -124.   486,    9.  t8.7         -     - M12.1      0 0.8          e      Tk
UU3CIPM ENiIE               m1         9    5    -    -             18    5,200   46.8  46.8       -    -      -  93.6  48.6  52.3        -    -      -100.9      0   0.8        0      TA
AIISCELLM188 TA              111     0.2     1    1   0.3      -   2.5    4-160    0.8   4.2  4.2   1.2        -   10.4   0.9   4.7   5.0  1.6        -   12,1     0 0.54        0      TA
.-Totl TE1CNMII4  A51TMU                                                            141.2  160.2  19.8  1.2      - 322.4  146.7  179.0  23.7   16       -  3il.1
C. l4111 CltlS                TAIEmO      -    5    5    5        -    11    4,160       -   20.8 20.8 2.8        -  42.4       -23.2  24.8 26.4         -   4.      0      1       0      TR
Total IRSEIlT COSTS                                                                     155.8  210.1  69.7  51.2  29.1  515.8  161.9  235.0  83.8  66.1  41.2  5E8.0



-43-                                                                     Annex 3
JORDAN                                                                    Tables  7 & 8
AI0MN TRANSPORT AND IWNICIPAL DEVELPHENT PROJECT
Table 7. PROJECT COORDINATION AND TRAINING UNIT
Detailed Cost lable
Base Costs                 Totals Includint Contioencips
OLketitt                                     (J.D. '000)                           I.l. 000)                Pl1.
-----------------------------                 ---------------------------------- ------------------------------------- oot. For.  Bruss  Swears
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/06 86/87 87/88 Total Unit Cost 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total 83/84 84/85 8i/86 86/e7 B7/88 Total Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Accott
==C  ==Z.   -=  C=CV ,===== ==== === ==Z====== zz =- =C-=======   ==  = ==== == =====,==== =======  ====  =====                           =====C======
4,  RSRNWEL
PROJECT  RM                itYR    0.8     1    I      I    1   4.8      8,320   6.2   8.3   B.3   8.3   8.3  39.5  6.5   9.3  10.1  10.9  11.8  48.6          0    0         0     OPC
EN3M1ER                     DYR    0.8     1     1      1    1   4.8      4,160   3.1   1.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   1908  3.2   4.7  3.0   5.3  3,9  24.3          0    0         0    DPC
TRAINING C60RDINATOR   N     YR    0.8     1     1     I     1   4.B      4.160   3,1   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   19.8   3.2 '.7 S.O   3.3   5.9  24.3           0    0         0     OPC
ACCOUNTANT                  MtR    0.8     1     1     1     1  4.8      4.160   3.1   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2  19.8   3.2   4.7   5.0   3.3   5.9  24,3         0     0        0    OPC
ACCOULTS CLWER              m      0.8     1     1     1    1   4.8      3,120   2.3   3.1   3.1   3.1  3.1   14.8  2.4   3.5   3.8   4.1   4.4   18.2         U    0         0    OPC
SENIOR SECRETARY            MYR    0.8     1     I     I     1  4.8      3.120   2.3   3.1   3.1   3.1  i:.l  14.6   2.4   3.5   3.8   4.1   4.4   1082        0     0        0    OPC
ASSISTANT SECRETARY         IYR    0.8     1     1     1     1   4.8     2,080   1.6   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1    9.9   1.6   2.3   2.5   2.7   2.9  12.1        0    0         0    OPC
DRIVERS                     NYR    1.5     2     2     2     2   9.5      1,360   2.3   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   14.8  2.1   3.5   3.8   4.1   4.4  10.2        0    0         0     WPC
MESSENGERS                  AtYR    1.     2     2     2     2   9.5     1,560   2.3   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1  i4.8   2.4   3.5   3.8   4.1   4.4   18.2        0     0        0    OPC
Sub-Total PES8SONHEL                                                               26.5  35.4  35.4  35.4  35.4  165.0  27.6  39,7  12.9  46.3  30.0  206.5
8. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PO1    NM    1.5   1.3   1.3   1.3      -     6      3,200   7.8   7.8   7.8   7.8     -   31.2   8.1  8.7   9.3  10.0       -   36.1     0   0.8        0      TA
C. ACCOUNTANCY SERVICES         mN     12    12     -     -    -    24      1,560  18.7  10.7      -     -     -   37.4  19.5  21.0     -     -     -   40.5      0  0.25        0      TA
D, OPERATING EXPENSES                   -     -        -     -        -             12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  59.8  12.4  13.9  .:4.5  1.6  16.8  72.6        0  0.2         0     OPC
E. EUIPMENT
VEHICLES                    CAR      4     -    -      -     -     4     4,160  16,6      -     -     -     -   16.6  18.2     -     -     -     -   18.2 0.03   0.9       0.01      EQ
PHDTKWY NACHINE             lbC8     I           -                 1    2,080  2.1        -     -     -     -    241  2.3      -     -     -     -    2.3 0,S   0,9       0.01      E0
MICRO COMvPTER               mmCR                   1 -                  4,160   4.2      -     -     -     -    4.2  4 S                        -    4.5  O.0   0.9    0.01        EO
NISCELLMA   EGUIPNENT                I    -      -     -     -     1              4.2                       -      -     -     - 424.5  -4.5 0,0                   0.9    0.01      E1
Sub-Total EWIPENT                                                                  27.0    -       -    -      -   27.0 29.5      -     -     -     -   29.5
Tol4l INVSTMENT COSTS                                                                 92.0  73.8  53.1  33.1  47.3  323.4  97.1  82.8  66.7  71.8  66.8  385.2
JORDAN
10MAN TRANSPORT AND IURICIPAL DEVELOIIINT PROJECT
Pro.lect Coponent bs Toae
IJ.D. Million)
Total
Base Costs           -----------
--------- --   ---- -       ( LSi
83/84 84/B3 05186 86/07 07/68 J.D. Killion)
A. MA"I  INTERSECTL8N IMPROtEiENTS           0.3   1.6  3.1   1.7  0.9  7.5    21.1
B. TRAFFIC KiNAENENT AND ENGINEERING         0.3   1.2   1.4   0.6   0.2  3.7      10.3
C. IES16N OF FUTLRE NETMARKS                 0.3   0.3  0.2       -     - 1.0       2.9
D. UPGRADING MUNICIPAL TECHNICAL DEPTS       0.2   0.8   0.6   0.3   0.1  2.0       5.6
E. SILID iASTE  MEMENT                       0.7   1.0   0.8   0.0   0.0  2.5       7.0
F. AMM  DEVELOPMENT PLANNING                 0.2   0.2   0.1  0.1   0.0  0.5        1.4
8. PROJECT COORDIMATION AND TRAINING UNIT   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  0.0 0.3          0.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                           2.0   3.4   6.1   2.8   1.3 17.5    49.3
Phlsical Continsencies                      0.1   0.6  0.9   0.4   0.2  2.2        6.1
Price Contingencies                         0.1   0.7   1.4   0.9   0.6  3.7      10.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                            2.2   6.7   0.4  4.1   2.0 23.4    65.6
Taxis                                       0.0     0.4    0.7    0.4   0.2  1.7   4.7
Foreign Exane                               1.3   4.1   4.7   2.1   0.913.1       36.9



Annex 3
Table  9
JORDZ
WIMAN TRAPT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumumr Account bw Tise
Base Costs +
Base Costs                     Price Cant,
(J.D. '000)                       on Base    Foreign Exchante
----------     -     -               Costs             -
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   Total    (USS '000)       T     Amount
A. LAND                                         260.0    38.5        -       -        -    291.5        881.0      0.0      0.0
Physical Contirnncies                         10.4        -       -       -       -      10.4            -      0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                           10.8     4.7        -       -       -      15.6            -      0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               281.2    43.2        -       -       -    324.4         881.0      0.0      0.0
Taxes                                         28.1      1.3       -       -        -     3;.4            -      0.0      0.0
DB CIVIL MORltS                                 465.1 2,981,7 4,678.2 2,318.2 1,035.8 11,47S.0       38,864.7    55.0  6,313.5
Physical Contingencies                        63.0   478,3   779.4  401.2   197.7  1,915.7               -    55.0  1055.8
Price Contingencies                           20.7   412.2 14096.5   772.7  458.1  2076C.3               -    52.4  1i446.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               548.9 3,872.3 6,554.0 3.492.1 1,691,7 16,155.0       38864..7    54.6  B,815,7
Taxes                                         54.9   387.2  655,4   349.2   169.2  1,61'.9               -      0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                             301.7 2,124.8 3,581.5 1,896.0   911.6 8815.7               -      0.0      0,0
C. EQUIPMENT                                    396.2 1,155.2   725.9   59.5         -  2%336.9       7,428.3    94.0  2,195.8
Physical Continencies                         20.3    67.8    56.3      8.9       -    153,4             -    93.0   142.7
Price Continrencies                           16.2   142.?   152,0    18.6        -    325.7             -    93,1    307,1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               432.7 1,365,9   934.3    87.1         -  2.82C.0      79428.3    93.8  2.645,6
Taxes                                          4.3    13.7      9.3     0Y9       -      20.2            -     0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                             409,3 1,288.1   870.1    78.1         -  2,645.6            -      0.0      0,0
D. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                         15.5   114.1   179.3    91.3   43.3    443.4         19516.1    25.0    110,9
Physical Continsencies                         2.2    19.6   32.2    16.8       8.1      78.8            -    25.0      19.7
Price Contingencies                            0.7    16.3    44.0    32.4    20.4    113.7              -    22.8      25,9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                18.3   150.0   255.4   140,4    71.8    635.9        1.516.1    24.6    156,5
Taxes                                          0.1     0.7      1.3     0.7     0.4       3.2            -     0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                               4.6    37.3    63,1    34.2    17.3    156.5              -     0.0       0,0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         770,2   901,9  298.2    31,9          -  2,002.3      6Y209.0    59.0  1,181,6
Price Contingencies                           30.1   107.7    61.3      8.9       -    208.1             -    51.8    107.R
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               800.4 1.009.7   359.6    40.8        -  2,210.4       6,209.0    58.3  1,289.4
Taxes                                          4,0     5.0      1.8     0.2       -      11.1            -      0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                             559.4   569.3   130.9   29.9         -  1,289.4             -      0.0      0.0
F, TRAINING                                       4.2    25,0    74.9    74.9       4.2    183,0        623.7   100.0    183.0
Price Contingencies                            0.2     2.9    14,5    20.0      1.4      39.0            -   100.0      39.0
Sdb-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                 4.3    27.9    89.3    94.9      5.6    222.0         623.7   100.0    222.0
Foreign Exehange                               4.3    27.9    89.3    94.9      5.6    222.0             -      0.0      0.0
6. CONTRACT STAFF AND OPERATIONAL EXPENSES      102,5   175.4   175.4   175.4   175.4    804.3        20793.0      1.5     i2.0
Price Continencies                             4.1    21.6    37.3    54.3    72.6    190.0              -      1.2      2.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               106.6   197.0   212,8   229.8   248.1    994.3        2,793.0      1.4     14.3
Foreign Excharle                               2.5     2.7      2.9     3.0     3.2      14.3            -     0.0       0,0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                           2,013.7 5,391.8 6,131.9 2,751.2 1,258.8 17,547,5       58,315.8    57.0  9,996,7
Physical Contingencies                           95.9   565.8   867.9   426.9   205.8  2.162.3               -    56.3  1t218,2
Price Contingencies                              82.8   708.4 1,405.6   906.9   552.6  3.656,.3             -    52.7  1,928.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINiENCIES                    2,192.5 6,66.0 8,405.4 4,085.1 2,017.2 23,366.1        58,315.8    56,3 13,143,5
Taxes                                            91.4   411.0   667.8   351,0   169.5  1,690,8              -      0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchane                               1,281.8 4P0O0,1 4f737.) 2,136,1   937+7 13,143.5               -     0.0      0.0
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   - - - _ _-  - --   - --- --   -- - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - -- --   -- - -- - -   -- - --   -- -- ---__ _ _   _ _ _   _ _   _ _ _ _ 



-45-                                                               Annex 3
Table 10
3WA  T PT   ID IUNICIPI DEWLOPIENIT POJECT
Suurv Aceant bv Prmect Comawt
(JOD. '000)
WU    ING                          PROJECT               Phtsical
MAJR        TRIFIC      DESIGN Of IUICIPAL                Mim     COORDINATION           Cortineies
INTERECTIUN   IWIIINT AND FUTUR    TECIIICAI  SOLID WSTE DEWI.WENT AND TRAINING
IMIENETS  EIIIIEENING   IETURS    DEPTS   NAAEMENT  PANINS                 UIIIT     Total    I   Amount
maauuum  inmm                inU    _23               3U=3    in3z      zu232323 :c- =m    ==
At LAN                                             52.0           38.5         -         -       208.0          -            -   218.5  3.5   10.4
Phtsical Cantiaruocies                          10.4              -         -         -           -          -            -    10.4  0.0       0.0
Price Cantim   its                               2.5            4.7         -         -         8.3          -            -    15.6  2.7       0.4
Svb-Total INCLUDING CONTINECIES                    64.9           43.2         -         -       216.3          -             -   324.4  3.3   10.8
Taxes                                            6.5            4.3         -         -        21.6          -            -    32.4   3.3    1.1
1. CIVIL VWXS                                   6,968.0        24867.9         -    832.0        911.2          -            - 11#479.0  16.7 19919.7
Pthuical Continancin                         1,393.6          396.6         -       7,8       121,7          -            -  1919,7   0.0    0.0
Price Cmntinimncius                          1Y86B.4          593.0         -     159.3       139.5           -            - 2,760.3  14.6  403.5
SubTotal INCLUDNIN  CONTINGENCIES              10,230.0        3,857.4         -    999,1    1,072,4            -            - 16,159.0  14.4 2.323.1
Txes                                         1,023.0          385.7         -      99.9       107.2          -            -  1,615.9  14.4  232.3
Foreirn Exw                                  5,575.4       2M107.2          -    545.8        587.3          -            - 8.915.7  14.4 1.267.1
C. EOUIPIENT                                          -          426,4         -    452.4    1.431.0            -         27.0  2,336.9  6,6  153.4
Phijeal Continimocies                              -           56.8         -      23.7        71.6          -          1.4   153.4  0.0    0.0
Price Cantinimncies                                -           98.0         -      58,5       182,1          -          1.1   329.7  6,7   22.1
Sub-TotaL. INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    -          571.3         -    534.6    1t684.7            -         29,5  2.820.0  6.2  175.5
Taxm                                               -            5.7         -       5.3        16.8           -          0.3    28.2  6.2      1.8
Forriiin Exehw                                     -          513.4         -    507.1    1,591.6            -         26.5  2,645.6  6.2  163.0
D. PRIFEIISIOIL SERVICES                          278.7          164,7         -         -           -           -           -   443.4  17.8  '78.8
PM ieal Contidencies                           55.7           23.1         -         -           -          -            -     78.8  0.0    0.0
Prine Continimncles                             78,2           35.5         -         -           -           -           -    113.7  15.3   17.4
Sub-Total INCUOING CONTINGENCIES                  412.6          223,3         -         -           -           -            -   635.9  15.1   96.2
Ta)"s                                            2,1            1.1         -         -           -          -            -      3.2  15.1    0.5
Foriiln Exchwau                                101.4           55.1         -         -           -          -            -    156.5  15.1   23.7
E, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                           200.0           91.1  1P044.2    286,0            -       322,4         68,6  2,002.3  0.0      0,0
Prie Contirniucins                               7.8           14.1    120.4       29.2           -        28.7          7.9   208.1  0.0      0.0
STotaL INCLUDING CONTINGNCIES                     207.8           95.2  1,164.6    315.2             -       351.1        76.6  2,210.4  0.0    0.0
Tamx                                             1.0            0.5       5.8       1.6           -         1.8         0.4    11,1   0.0    0.0
Foreiiin Exchdae                               166.2           68.2    513.8    224.9             -       277.4        38.9  1,289.4  0.0      0.0
F. TIININ6                                           -           9S,8         -      20.8           -        62.4           -    183.0   0.0    0.0
Price Continmcies                                  -           23.0         -       4.0           -        12,0           -    39.0   0.0    0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDINB  CONTINGENCIES                    -          122.8         -      24.8           -        74.4           -   222.0  0.0    0.0
Foreiiin Exchdni                                   -          122.8         -      24.8           -        74.4           -   222.0   0.0    0.0
6. CONTRACT STAFF AND PERTIONL EXPENSES               -              -         -    411.8         33.7       131.0       227.8   804.3   0.0    0.0
Price Continencies                                 -                        -      S9.0         8.1        31.5        51.4   190.0  0.0       0.0
Sub-Toal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      -              -         -    510.8         41.8       162.5       279.2   994.3  0.0    0.0
Foreign Exchne                                     -              -         -         -           -           -         14.3    14.3  0.0    0.0
Total INVEISlENT COSTS                             7,498.7        3,678.4  1,044.2  2,003.0    2M493.9         515.8        323.4 17,547.5  12.3 2,162.3
Phnsical Contingencies                         1459.7           476.5         -      31.5       193.2          -          1.4  2,162.3  0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                             11956.9          758.5    120.4    350.0         338.0        72.2         60.5  3.656.3  12,1  443.4
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     10,915.3        4,913.3   1 F164.6  2,384.5    3,015.2        588.0       385.2 23,366.1  11.2 2,605.7
...  ..... ...... *=               s          _ =l:~     ~       W_=__  = :==  D w,ttrlm-113x=    as   -
Tas                                             1,032.6          397.4       5.8    106.8        145.7         1.8         0.7  1,690.8  13.9  235.6
Femign lExchan                                  58443#0        2,8667      513,3   1,S2.5    2,I15,9         351.8        79.7 13143.5  11.1 1,453.7



-46-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Project      Quarter/                                          All UrbanLa         Jordan
Year        Semester       Disbursements      Cumulative          Loans                      IDA
Ending On                                           Cumulative   LoansLb  Credits/C
US$ Million   US$ Million    %          %             %           X
Year 1   31 December 1983    -                 -           -         -                        0.1
31 March 1984        -               -           -         -            -
30 June 1984         0.9             0.9         3         1.3          2.4         3.3
Year 2   30 September 1984   0.6               1.5         5         -            -           -
31 December 1984    1.8              3.3        11         -           12.3        10.6
30 June 1985         4.2             7.5        25         8.0         31.1        22.2
Year 3   31 December 1985    3.9              11.4        38         -           53.9        33.9
30 June 1986         3.9            15.3        51        20.2         73.8        47.4
Year 4   31 December 1986    4.5              19.8        66         -           87.4        60.3
30 June 1987         4.2            24.0        80        36.3         95.5        71.5
Year 5   31 December 1987    2.4              26.4        88         -          100.0        80.8
30 June 1988         2.1            28.5        95        53.4          -          88.0
Year 6   31 December 1988    1.5              30.0       100         -            -          93.4
/a       Average  for 50 urban projects,  average disbursement  period  is 9 years;  later
cumulative disbursements are.  year 6 - 69.3%, year 7 - 82.7%, year 8 - 92.8%,
year 9 - 100%.
lb       Average for 7 projects, disbursement period is 4 1/2 years.
Ic       Average for 11 projects, disbursement period is 6 1/2 years.



-47-
.ANX 5
Page I of 1
JORDAN
AJ4MAN TRANSPORT AkND MUNICIPAL. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CoMPONENT                                  1-983      1    1984    1    1985            1986- 1    1987    I    1988         1
________ ________ ________ ________   3   6  9   1  3  6   9   *  3  6   9       3  6   9 1    3  6   9   r    3   6  -9   1
A.  Pour Intersections                                                      IIII
Feasibility Study                          Iddddd .... I.......I.......I.......I.......I.......I
Intersection No. 1 (Sports City)           I....ass... I*bbb.*ddddddlddddddddddddlddd+eeeeeeeeleee+.......I........
Intersection No. 2 (Third CircLe)           .... aa+..[ ......*blbbccddddddddlddddd+eeeeee[eeeee+......I.......I
Intersection No. 3 (Nasr)                  I.....aa+.I*bbbccddddddiddddddd+eeeeleeeeeee4....I ........I_......                  I
Intersectiont No. 4 (Nasser)..... aa+i .........I*bbbcc*dddddlddddddddddddldddddddddddSleo!eeeeeeeee+I
I             I             I                            
8.  Traffic Improvements                               I             I             I                                  II
Central Business District                  Iaaaaa*bbbbcc Icddddddddddd dddddddddddd dddddseeeeeelIeeeee+......I.......I
Corridors;                                                I             I                           I             I             I
Al Quds & Misdar Streets                 laaaaa*bbbbcclcdddddddddddlddddddddddddlddddd+.e.e.eleeeee ......I.......I
Corridors 3 & 4                          I..aaa .... I... aaa*bbbcclddddddddddddlddddddddddddlddddd+eeeeeeleeceee ....I
Corridor 5                               I..aaas.... I........ I.... aa*bbbcclddddddddddddlddddddddddd4le,eeeeeeeeee+I
Low Income Access Roads                    I..aa..... I... aaa*bbbcclddddddddddddlddddddseeeeeleeeeee .....I.......             I
Isolated Junctions                                I.........I..aaa*bbcclcdddddddddddlddddddddddddldddddd4.ee..eleeee .......I
Staircase Improvements                     I..aa....aaal*bbbccddddddlddddddddddddiddddddddddd*I........I.......I
Traffic Enforcement Training               I                            III                                       I             I
Diagnostic: Study                        I.aa  .... blbccdd .... I.......I.......I.......I....... 
Short Courses (in house)                 I.......I......d.I ......d.I ......d.1.......I.......
Special Training Courses.I... ....I......I......Idddd .....dddd ........... 
C.  Ring Arterials                                            IIIIII
Feasibility Study                         ..a....aal*bbbccddddddl+*.....I...... .                 I.......I......
Detailed Designs                         I.......I.......I... dddddddddl+.......  I.......I....... 
D.  Municipal Technical Departments             I                           IIIiI
Engineering Department:.                                                                             
Appoint.-tDirector                        .......I...... ......   ......  I...............                                    I
-section Heads, Support Sttff            .I......C.......I......l......  I......                           I... ......
-goad Maintenance Advisor              I.......I......I.......   ......I............
Ro ad Maintenance Studies                I.saa.......sabbccddddddlddddddddddddlddd .....I.....I......
Equipment                                I             I              I             II                          I
Sign Workshop                         I..asaaa*bbbc*Iddddddddddddlsee.eeeee.eIe ........  I.......I.......
Quality Control                       I.......I.... aa*bbbc*lddddddddddddl+eeeeeeeeeeeI .............I
Heavy Equipment                       I.......l.aa*bbbc*dddlddddddddd+cciccc*eeeeee*.I........ I.......I
Road Rehabilitation Contractsi                  I........I..aaaa*bbcclddddddddddddlddddddddddd+I ...... ...1'   .....
Mechanical and Electrical Depar-tment;   I                I             I             I             I               
Civil Works                              lasaaaa  bbbcclcddddd ...  .......  I       .............      .        I......I
Equipment                                laaaaa*..bbbcIc*ddddddddddIdd4eeeeeeeeeleee ...... I.......I......I
App.int Accountant                       I.......0......I.......I.......I.......  .......
Studies Department:                                     Il
Appoint Traffic Eng,.neers.                                                         I                                         I 
Local                                   .......l....            I... ......I..... ...I............
Foreign                                 ..... ...   ............  ......   .....                     .       ..I......
Land Acqu-isition: Order to Acqu~ire       I.......   ............. I.          .        ...............I......
Surveysand Trantsferdddd...................I............
Establishment 6 Staffing SoI'dWat
Management Department                           ..........    ............I............
Topographic Survey                          ...... dddd ......I.......I.......I.......I.......
Civil Works                                I.......i..aa*bbc*dddlddddddddddddldd+eeeeeee~eelee....... I.......I
Closing Marks Site                         I.......I..aa*bbc*dddlddddddddddddI~dddddddddd4iI........ I.......I
Equipment: Disposal                        I.aas......aaaa*bbbc*ddlddddddddddd4Ieeeeeeeeeee+IL............ . . I
Collection                     Iaaa*bbbc*dlddddddddddddlddddddeeeeeeleeeeee+.....I.......  ...... 
Introduction of New Charging System        I.......1* ..........I.......I.......I.......I.......I
Implementation Higher Tariffs               .......I..... ..........1* ...... I.......I......                                   I
Study of Collection System                 I.......Iddddddddddd4I .......I.......I.......I....... 
F.  Amman Developm ent Planning                        I      I                           II
Appoint Principal 3 TA Staff                .........I......  ...... .           I     .......I......  I           .......      I
Appoint Additional Local Staff             ........  ...... I......I......              .     I      .......I......      .        I
Issue Amman Development Plan:                            I             I                     I      III
Background, Land Use Volume               ........I................... ... .....                              ...I...... 
20 Year Strategy Volume                   ..........                   .     ........  ........   ......   ............ 
6 Year Investment Program         .     .     .    ............1* .          .    ......   ......   ............
Training Courses                           I                        i nlte r mi t te n t
G.  Project Coordination. Training, GeneralI                                III
Appoin  Project Manager                     .......  ......  ........ I... .... ...   ............
Appoint Other Staff                         ........I...................   ....             ...                 ...I......
TA for Municipal Accounts                  I.....aa*bblccddddddddddldddddd+......I....... I.......I.......I
Presentation Municipal Finance Plan         ..............         ..I.-.+.....I.......I..... ... ......
T'raining Programs & Specialist TA                        li nt e r m i tt e nt
KEY
Civil Works. Equipment                               Technical Assistance, Stuldies
4.        Completion of specific tasks (i.e. acquire land, appoint technical assistance)
asasa         Design, and prequalification contractors             Draft TORs, and make shortlist
bbbbb         Bidding                                              Request for proposals
ccccc         Evaluation, negotiation & award of contract
ddddd        Construction, delivery of equipment                   Study execution
eeeee         Defect & liability period
*     Bank review, approval of designs, draft contracts, discussion of reports.



- 48 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
1983   1984    1985      1986   1987  1988
1. Major Intersections
(a) Physical Completion:
1. Sports City; % Complete                -     33       80     100       -       -
2. Nasr; % Complete                       -     75      100       -       -       -
3. Nasser Circle:  % Complete             -      -        -      25      80    100
4. Third Circle:  % Complete              -      -       10      80    100        -
(b)Traffic Growth; vehicles/hr /-a
at each intersection
2. Traffic Improvements
(a)Physical Completion:
CBD; % Complete                       -      15      65      100       -      -
Al Misdar;% Complete                  -      25       75     100       -      -
Al Quds: % Complete                    -     25       75     100       -      -
King Husein; % Complete                -      -       35      75    100        -
Mahatta Street; % Complete            -       -       25      50    100       -
Khaled :Lbn Al Walid Street;
% Complete                            -       -        -      50    100       -
Staircases - % complete                   -     20       60     100       -       -
Access to .Low-income areas;
% Complete                             -      -       65     100       -      -
Isolated Junctions: % Complete           --      -       35      75    100        -
Traffic Enforcement Training
Trainees                                              20      20      25     25
(b)Traffic Growth; vehicles/hr/b
in each corridor
3.  Engineering Department:
-Senior contract engineers in ED          -      7        7        7      7       7
-(Quality i.ndicators will be defined
by studies by RSS ancl Road
Maintenance Advisor)
-Number of traffic engineers              2      3        3        3      3       3
a/ Vehicles entering area per hour during average peak period.
b/ Vehicles leaving corridor to CBD.
(continued)



- 49 -
(continued)                                                            Annex 6
Page 2 olf 2
1983   1984    1985   1986   1987    1988
4.  ]Municipal Workshop
-hours between engine overhauls
-X of vehicle & equipment fleet           -      -        -       -    15X        -
stopped for repairs, daily
-staff (excl. drivers)                         115      115      115    115    115
-value stores of spare parts (JD,
1983 prices)                                                      30,000
5.  Studies Department
(Regular Staff, excl., TA)
-Technical Staff                          23     27Lc   27        27     28       -
-New Planning Staff, (2 Economists,              7        7        7      7       -
2 Municipal Engineers, 2 Transport
Planners, Geologist/Soil Mechanics
Engineer)
-Trainees on special courses
(Planning, Traffic Engineering)           -      3        5       10     10       -
6.  Solid Waste
-Tons collected in Amman from.
-Households (t/yr)                        -    180      188      193    203    211
-Other
-Direct Collection cost/ton
(JD/ton)                                8.4
-Tons disposed in landfills
('000/yr)
from. Amman
Other municipalities             -       -      60       95    113    136
-Disposal Cost per ton (JD/ton)           -      -        1.4      1.5    1.6    1.8
-Solid Waste Receipts from
households & businesses(JD'000)        305    700    1400    1854   2076   2326
-Receipts to Landfills from
Other Municipalities (JD'000)            -      -       85      143    187    240
7.  Municipal Finances
Tax revenues(JD Million)                 12.5   15.0   .18.0    20.0   28.5    -
Operating Expenditures (JD Million)    8.0    8.8         9.7    10.7   11.7
/c Includes appointment on contract of 2 senior road design engineeres and 2 junior
traffic engineers (to be trained with assistance of traffic engineering advisor)



-50-
Annex 7
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF STAFF INCREASES, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, POLICIES, AND STUDIES
The institutional improvements to be introduced during the
project consist of two major types; (a) strengthening staffing of
relevant departments, including technical assistance and (b) introducing
policy changes, some of them to be based on studies carried out during
the project.  The numbers and qualifications of staff, and the dates by
which they will be recruited, are set out in Table 1.  Table 2 does the
same for Technical Assistance.   Table 3 lists the policy covenants and
Table 4 lists the stu,lies to be carried out and proposed completion dates.



-51-                                   Annex 7
Table 1, Page 1
JORDAN
AMMAN TRlANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1; SCHEDULE OF STAFFING
Agency/Position            Qualifications                                  Date of Appointment
PROJECT TRAINING AND COORDINATION UNIT
Project Manager                 Civil engineer with at least 12 years of          October 31, 1983
experience in design and supervision of
civil works, including roads, familiar
with urban planning, management, and
budgeting control.
Project Engineer                Civil engineer with at least 8 years of           October 31, 1983
experience in design and supervision of
civil works, experience in procurement.
Project Accountant              Holder of a recognized accountancy                October 31, 1983
qualification and at least 8 years of
experience, preferably in business as
well as in government.
TrairLing Coordinator           At least 8 years of working experience            October 31, 1983
in a technical field related to municipal
services (e.g., civil engineer); prefer-
.:bly including experience in managing
t:raining programs.
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Director                        Civil engineer, with more than 12 years           I)ecember 31, 1983
experience in supervision of all aspects
of highway and traffic engineering
including at least 4 years in urban
areas; management of a section or depart-
ment engaged in design, supervision, and
cirect construction of works.



-52-
Annex 7
Table 1, Page 2
Agency/Position             Qualifications                                  Date of Appointment
Heads of Sections               Civil engineers with at least 10 years             December 31, 1983
concerned with;               of relevant experience in highway engin-
- contract super-               eering including urban experience.
vision
- direct construction
3 Senior Engineers              Civil engineers with 5 or more years expe-         December 31, 1983
rience in construction of roads, intersec-
tions, and/or road maintenance. At least
one engineer should have extensive
experience in urban traffic engineering.
4 Technicians                   Two signal technicians with vocational             December 31, 1983
(traffic engineering            training in electronics.  Two graduates
section)                        of civil/mechanical vocational technical
school, drafting ability required.
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
Accountant                      Professional accountancy qualification             December 31, 1983
and at least 5 years of experience, or
senior bookkeeper with 12 years of
experience in the private as well as the
government sector.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
Director                        Municipal Engineer with at least 10                December 31, 1983
years experience including in design
and operation of solid waste collec-
tion and disposal activities.
December 31, 1983
Heads of Sections for:          Civil Engineers with at least 5 years
(1) Planning and                experience of solid waste management.
Control
(2) Solid Waste
Disposal Unit



-53-
Annex 7
Table 1, Page 3
Agency/Position             Qualifications                                   Date of Appointment
STUDIES DEPARTMENT
For the Development
Planning Section
2 Economists La                 Graduates in economics, preferably with         December 31, 1983
some post graduate training or experience
and knowledge of one or more of several
fields including cost benefit analysis,
urban economics, or transport economics.
2 Transport plannersLa          Graduates in engineering, urban planning,    December 31, 1983
or economics, with specialization in
transport, preferably some post-graduate
training and experience in this field.
2 Municipal engineers La        Degree in civil engineering, prefer-            December 31, 1983
ably with experience in design and
supervision of municipal activities
(e.g., roads, water and sewerage, solid
waste disposal).
1 Geologist/Soil mechanic       Graduate civil engineer specialized in          December 31, 1983
soil mechanics and with knowledge of
geology, or geologist with engineering
knowledge.
For the Design Studies
Section
2 Senior Civil Engineers        Civil engineers with at least 10 years          December 31, 1983
experience in design of roads, drainage
works, and structures. One should pre-
ferably have some traffic engineering
experience.
2 t:raffic engineers/a          Civil engineers with specialization             December 31, 1983
(if possible) in traffic engineering.
/a Given low municipal pay scales, these staff members are expected to be quite junior.
They will receive on-the-job training in the course of carrying out planning functions
with the technical assistance and senior contract personnel. It is also intended that
they receive specialized courses in Jordan and abroad to upgrade their skills.



-54-
Annex 7
Table 2
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2_ TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE PROJECT
Responsible Department          Nature of Technical Assistance        MM         Date to be Engaged
SD (Traffic Engineering)        Traffic Engineer (TORs at             18         December 31, 1983
Annex 8a)
Traffic Signals Specialist             4        December 31, 1983
(intermittent) (TORs at
Annex 8b)
Department of Public            Technical Assistance for              18         December 31, 1983
Security                        Traffic Police Training
SD                              Engineering & Economic )                         July 1, 1984
Feasibility Study of )
Arterial Roads (TORs )
at Annex 8c)             )           190
)
SD                              Detailed designs for   )                         July 1, 1985
arterial roads           )
ED                              Road Maintenance Engineer                        December 31, 1983
(18 months)(TORs at
Annex 8d)
ED                              Studies on Pavement Eva-                         June 30, 1984
luation, and Quality Con-
trol
SD                              Economist (24 MM), Trans-             60         December 31, 1983
port Planner (18 MM), and
Mujnicipal Engineer (18 MM)
to assist with Development
plan and policy analysis
(TORs at Annex 8e).
Financial Department            Accountancy services to               24         December 31, 1983
(AM)                            assist introduction of
computerization and of
cost accounting.



-55-
Annex 7
Table 3, Paget 1
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3; AGREEMENTS ON POLICIES
Agency/Policy Change                Objective/Supplementary Information   Date for Implementation
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
I.Restrict expansion in            Utilize the limited resources avail-         December 31, 1985
volume of force account          able to ED to ensure sound supervi-
work on road construction        sion and quality control, which are
and repair, sidewalks,           necessarily government sector activi-
retairLing walls and             ties, and have the private sector
staircases, and reduce           take responsibility for more of the
share of force account           task of actual construction.
to 30% or less.
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
l.Relinoluish control over        To improve efficiency of user                 December 31, 1983
drivers of vehicles            clepartments through giving them
operated by other               authority over equipment operators.
departments.
2.Introduce a provider-user       The M&ED would purchase vehicles              December 31, 1983
system for vehicle              according to specifications agreed
management and use              with user departments.  It would
provide these vehicles on a lease
basis, with user departments paying
from their budgets a charge to re-
cover the costs of maintenance, re-
pairs and depreciation and capital
invested. This system is expected to
provide the opportunity and incentive
for the municipality continuously to
compare costs and service levels
offered by M&ED with those available
from the private sector, and so create
aLn opportunity for more efficient
operation of the vehicle fleet.



-56-
Annex 7
Table 3, Page 2
Agency/Policy Change              Objective/Supplementary Information        Date for Implementation
3.Adopt a vehicle and             This would improve the efficiency             December 31, 1983
equipment replacement           and dependability of the fleet,
policy based on age and         would facilitate orderly repair
mileage criteria, and on        work, and budgeting for equipment.
the desirability of
standardizing major
equipment items
4.Develop and imple-              Lack of required spares is a factor           December 31, 1985
ment a policy on                in excessive repair turnaround time.
spare parts which               Ordering practices are cumbersome,
would, inter alia,              and over-ordering is common.  Insuf-
reduce the value of            fEicient attention is given to ensuring
spares to JD 3,000              that equipment suppliers stock suffi-
(in 1983 prices) or             cient spares which can be purchased
less                           :in small quantities as needed. The
aim of this policy is to improve the
availability of spares through appro-
priate specifications of equipment
tenders, while reducing the capital
tied up in spares at any time.
4.No expansion for 5              The proposed improvements in equip-           Immediately
years of staff con-             rnent and civil works would enable
cerned with vehicle             the workshop to handle at least 50%
repair, maintenance,           mnore vehicles.
or administration
except for one
accountant.
ALL TECHNICAL DEPARTMENTS*
Introduce cost                  To provide a basis for evaluating             January 1, 1986
accounting                      efficiency of different municipal
operations.
* (ED, M&ED, SD, SiMD)



-57-
Annex 7
Table 4
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4; SCHEDULE OF STUDIES TO BE UNDERTAKEN
AND RESULTS TO BE FORWARDED FOR BANK REVIEW
Agency/Department                            Study                         Date of Completion
SD                              Engineering and Economic Feasibility            December 31, 1984
Studies of Arterial Roads in Amman
(TORs at Annex 8c)
SD                              Detailed designs for arterial roads             June 30, 1986
(details on roads and timing depend
on feasibility studies)
SWMD                            Study of means to increase the pro-             December 31, 1984
ductivity of solid waste collection
SD                              20 year development strategy for                July 31, 1984
Amman
SD                              6-year investment program for Amman             December 31, 1984
Amman Municipality,             5 year Plan for Municipality of Amman           March 31, 1985
Government                      Finances
Finance Department              Improvement of accounting system,               June 30, 1985
introduction of cost accounting



-58-
Annex 8(a)
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TRAFFIC ENGINEERING ADVISOR
Location; Traffic Engineering Division, Studies Department,
Amman Municipality
Duration of Appointment: 18 months
Qualifications and Experience:
A    registered    (chartered)    civil    engineer   with   graduate
qualifications  in traffic/transport  engineering  and  planning.   A
minimum of twelve (12) years experience as a practising traffic
engineer, specifically in (i) design and implementation of traffic
schemes;  and  (ii)  traffic  studies.   Experience  with  parking
management and traffic signals would be desirable.
General Duties;
(i)    Assisting   the  Studies   Department   in  designing   its   traffic
improvement program.
(ii)   Assisting  the  Municipality  in  developing  a  traffic  monitoring
function and its use for programming and designing corrective
actions and for monitoring effectiveness of ongoing programs.
(iii)  Advising the Municipality in its efforts to builJd up local capacity
in  diagnosing   traffic   problems;   designing,   implementing  and
evaluating corrective actions; and developing traffic policies and
standards.
(iv)   Assisting in coordinating traffic engineering activities with wider
process of transport engineering and planning in Amman Municipality
and Amman Region.
(v)    Advising  the Engineering Department  in tendering and supervising
the implementation of the traffic improvement program.
(vi)   Training of local counterpart staff in the above aspects of traffic
engineering/planning.



-59-
Annex 8(a)
Page 2 of 2
pecific Duties:
(i)    Assisting in detailed  engineering  design costing,  evaluation and
production of bid documents for elements of a traffic improvements
program of Aimman Municipality which was brought by June 1983 to
approximately sketch design/preliminary cost level.
(ii)   Assisting in developing an area-wide  traffic monitoring  program,
covering location, frequency and practical procedures for surveying
traffic  volumes  (vehicular  and  pedestrian),  travel/spot  speeds
(delays), parking characteristics, traffic accidents and traffic
related enforcement  trends.   The  program  would  have  a  two-fold
purpose: (a) monitoring effectiveness of the on-going traffic
improvements  and  major  intersections  improvement  project;  and
(b) establishing  a  consistent  and  systematic  data  base  for
traffic/transport  planning  activities  in  Amman.   This  activity
would be carried out in cooperation with the transport  planning
advisor and local counterpart staff of the Studies Department (see
Terms of Reference for Transport Planning Advisor).
(iii)  Assisting  the  Municipality  in  performing  the  technical  staff
functions for the Local Traffic Committee and the Amman Regional
Traffic Committee.
(iv)   Assisting  in  following  up  and  evaluating  t:raffic  aspects  of
on-going feasibility/design studies, projects and proposals.
(v)    Advising the Municipality on the need for and monitoring the work
of  short-teni specialist  advice  in  developing  traffic-related
policy,   standards,   specifications,   warrants   and   procedures.
Traffic signals, parking and accident reduction are three high
priority areas in this matter.
(vi)   Advising ED in:
(a)     the  tendering  process:  advertising,  prequalification  of
contraLctors, issuing tender documents, bid evaluation and
contract negotiations, and
(b)     overseeing and coordinating the implementation of diverse
construction  contracts  related  to  traffic  improvement
program.
(vii)  Assisting with  training of  traffic engineering  and  design  staff
through (a) on-the-job advice, (b) identifying the need for,
recommending, and giving specific lecture and training activities
in Jordan, and (c) identifying appropriate short courses in Jordan
or abroad which would be suitable to upgrade the skills of local
traffic engineering personnel.



-60-
Annex 8(b)
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUALIEICATIONS AND TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TRAFFIC SIGNALS SPECIALIST
Location; Traffic Engineering Division, Studies Department,
Municipality of Amman.
Duration of Appointment; Four (4) months.
Qualifications and Experience;
An engineer w:ith no less than 12 years of experience in specifying,
commissioning, installing and operating traffic signals in a major
city (not smaller than one million).
General Duties;
To assist Amman Municipality in developing a traffic signals
policy, specifications and warrants.
Specific Duties;
Working closely with the Traffic Engineering Advisor and local
counterpart staff in the Studies and Engineering Departments of the
Municipality, the Traffic Signal Specialist will assist in;
(i)    compiling  an  inventory  of  existing/committed   traffic   signal
installations in Amman;
(ii)   evaluating  local  experience  with  traffic  signals  (especially  in
view of a complete breakdown of Amman central area signals in the
late   1970s   leading   to   their   switching   off   and   eventual
recommisioning);
(iii)  drafting a traffic signals policy  for Amman.   This will  address
traffic, equipment and contractual aspects of designing, buying,
installing and operating signals;
(iv)   developing  minimum   functional   specifications   for  signals   to
(a) ensure that appropriate, cost-effective signal equipment is
specified,  and  (b)  cover  a  range  of  local  needs  from  simple
signalling situations to the most complex (area signal control);
(v)    developing  traffic  signal  warrants  to  insure  that  signals  are
installed at all sites where they are justified by capacity/safety
considerations;



-61-
Annex 8(b)
Page 2 of 2
(vi)   developing a preliminary assessment of introducing traffic-adjusted
area traffic control (with on-line optimization) in central Amman;
and
(vii)  evaluating  the Municipality's staffing and training needs in the
area of traffic signals.



-62-
Annex 8(c)
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENGINEERING/ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY STUDY OF
ARTERIAL ROADS IN AMMAN
Terms of Reference
1. Introduction
1.01     The Government of Jordan has requested  the assistance of the World
Bank in preparing and implementing the above Project.   The Project will cut
across a spectrum of municipal services and will consist of.
(i)  improvements to four strategic traffic bottlenecks in Amman;
(ii)  traffic  improvements  in  central  Amman,  along  major  radial
corridors, on some isolated intersections and access road links,
and on public staircases;
(iii) improvements to facilities, equipment and practices in the
municipal vehicle maintenance workshop;
(iv)  development and implementation of a road maintenance program;
(v)  improvements to the solid waste collection and disposal system;
and
(vi)  studies, training and technical assistance.
1.02     These terms of reference are concerned solely with an element of the
category (vi) from above, namely an engineering/economic feasibility study of
some major arterial road links in Amman.
2. Background
2.01     The arterial highway network of Amman has been largely radial, since
the city developed along a fan of deep valleys (wadis) and the intervening
ridges  (jabals).   In  recent  years,  two  incomplete  ring  connections  have
emerged in the north and at some distance from the centre of Amman;
(i)  The Inner Ring Road,  about 3.5 km  from the center of Amman,
stretching from the Fourth Circle in the west, through the
Nasser (Ministry of Interior) Circle to the Nasr Interchange,
where it joins the Penetrator Road (the main northeastern
radial); and
(ii) the Outer Ring Road, roughly parallel to the Inner Ring, but
another 2 kn further to the north.



-63-
Annex 8(c)
Page 2 of 6
The rings are of variable standards, and typically use large roundabouts
(circles) at several locations where they intersect key radials.
2.02     This network development, guided as much by rapid urban growth in the
northern direction as by the very large investment which would be needed for a
ring road closer to the center including bridges and tunnels, has left several
large gaps, specifically;
(i) southern ring (central area bypass);
(ii) direct connection between the thriving north/northwest Jebels,
Amman, Webdeh and Hussein; and
(iii) poor ring/radial connections due north of the center.
As a consequence, much of the traffic between east and west Amman is forced to
pass through the center where, together with traffic destined for the center
and  large  volumes  of  circulating  pedestrians,  it  has  created  continuous
:0-hour congestion; the only alternative is to use the northern route along
lthe existing rings, sometimes requiring a four- to five-fold increase in trip
Length and cre!ating bott:lenecks on key intersections of the Inner Ring, all of
which but one are at-grade.
2.03     A number of proposals have been put forward  in recent  years  for
highway network additions designed to close the gaps cited above.  The Amman
'Region Transportation Study (ARTS), completed in 1981, endorsed the so-called
Jabals Ring Road, consisting of.  (a) a completely new western link between
Firas (Maxim Circle) and Ras Al Ain Street at Abdoun Road, passing through or
close to the Third Circle; (b) an improved/new southern by-pass of the centre
from Abdoun Road to Raghadan Interchange in the northeast; (c) an improved
connection from Raghadan to the Firas Circle; and (d) a connector from the
Firas Circle t:o the Inner Ring.  The ARTS included this scheme, costed at JD
21 million (in 1980 terms) and with an internal rate-of-return of jus  under
9%, in the recommended Highway Master Plan for  the Amman Region.     More
recently, a proposal has been made to replace the connector described in (d)
above with a radial road along Wadi Haddadah.  In 1983, the Government engaged
consultants toD carry out detailed feasibility studies for upgrading four
strategic intersections, three on the Inner Ring (Third Circle, Nasser Circle,
Nasr Interchange) and one (Sports City) on the Outer Ring.  These studies are
underway, but their results and the related Government decision will be known
shortly.
2.04     The  Government  places  high  priority  on  the  resolution  of  the
strategic transport issues in the Amman Region upon which the efficient
functioning  and  further  development  of  the  Region  vitally  depends.   It
therefore wishes to commiLssion a feasibility study (hereafter the Study) for a
detailed evaluation of the relevant options.
1/  The  rate--of-return  was   calculated   against  an  apparent  do-nothing
alternative.   Both the cost estimates  and traffic data were done at a
pre-feasibility study level.



-64-
Annex 8(c)
Page 3 of 6
3. Objectives
3.01     The objective of the Project  is to provide a refined engineering/
economic basis to enable the Government to select a program of highway
investments meant to resolve traffic problems of the Amman central area and to
improve  the  connection between  the  inner western  jabals.   The  Study will
therefore involve a full-scale feasibility analysis of alternative alignments,
design standards and coDnstruction timing of relevant new/improved highway
links.
4. Scope of Work
4.01     The Study will consist  of  the standard  elements  of urban highway
feasibility studies;   (i) review of past studies;  (ii) traffic, network and
site   investigations;   (iii)   conceptualization,   preliminary   design   and
construction   costing  i,or  promising  options;   (iv)   travel   and  traffic
forecasting; (v) forecasting relative impacts of the options and economic
evaluation; (vi) qualitative evaluation; and (vii) refining the recommended
program.
4.02     What  places  this  Project  apart  from  others  is  a  combination  of
difficult topography, unstable terrain and sizeable impacts on the rest of the
network  that  several  options  are  likely  to have.   It  follows  that  small
variations in size and/or alignment will have a large impact on construction
costs.   The  Project  shall  therefore  go  to  an  unusual  depth  in  its  site
investigations and traffic studies, as specified below.
Review of Past Studies
4.03     All relevant past studies and proposals shall be reviewed.  Particular
attention should be paid to the three recent sources; (a) the ARTS (1981); (b)
Four Intersections Study in Amman (1983); and (c) Jordan National Transport
Study  (1983).   The  Consultants  shall  analyze  data  collected  and  models
developed by the two former studies with a view to using them in a properly
updated form for the work at hand.
Traffic Studies and Network Modelling
4.04     Traffic planning in Amman has suffered in the past: from an absence of
reliable data on current traffic characteristics (volume counts to capture
variations  by hour,  day  or  season;  speed/delay  measurements).   The  Study
should focus on data collection not only for the purpose of traffic
forecasting, but also for calibrating plausible speed/volume relationships for
use in highway network maodelling.   Since the network model developed by the
ARTS is not considered sufficiently detailed for the current purpose, the
Consultants shall develop a suitable model capable of, inter alia, reflecting
delays at key intersections based on speed;volume characteristics measured in
Amman.



-65-
Annex 8(c)
Page 4 of 6
Site Investigations
4.05     As  stated  above,  the  terrain  is  difficult  along  some  promising
alignments.   For example, along a direct link between Jabals Amman, Weibdeh
andl Hussein, a succession of ridges and valleys raises the question of
engineering  feasibility  of  the  link.   In  the  Seil  Street  corridor,  some
alignment options may face land-slip problems, while others ma,y require
substantial property acquisition.   It is  therefore  of utmost  importance  to
carry out detailed site investigations, including topographic, drainage, soils
and materials  surveys.   Particular attenition should be paid to sub-surface
soil samples at the potential locations of bridges and/or tunnels.
Design of Alternatives
4.06     The key questions that the Study will attempt to answer, for certain
highway links, are as foLlows;
(i) should the! links in question be constructed/improved at all
within the time frame of the analysis, taken to be lhe period
1985-2000?
(ii)  if so, what are the most attractive alignments, design (level of
service)   standards,   and   time  schedules   for  construction/
improvement of the said links?
These considerations should guide the Consultants in selecting alternative
design, also bearing iin mind that preliminary engineering/costing to 20%
accuracy in quantities will be carried out for each proposed alternative.
Siince this will bear both on the costs of the Study and its ultimate! relevance
for decision-making, the Consultants will seek the approval of the Government
for the list of options prior to undertaking preliminary design/costing.
4.07     In addition to the above,  the Consultants will 'be guided,  in their
selection of options to be studied, by a consideration of specific transport
problems that the options would try to resolve (Para. 2.02).
Travel and Traffic Forecasting
4.08     For the purpose of overall travel forecasting,  the Consultants will
update the development scenarios from the ARTS, taking into consideration:
(i) the latest economic and demographic trends on the country/regional scale;
(ii) changes in urban development patterns in Amman ciccurring since the
completion of the ARTS (e.g., opening of the Queen Alia Airport); and (iii)
prospects for the future, in particular for some large-scale developments
(e.g., new center for Anmman).
4.09     The  Consultants  are  expected  to  develop  no  less  than  two  land
use/transport scenarios 'based on different demographic, economic and/or modal
split assumptions.   The forecasts should be developed for the period up to
year 2,000 in 5-year increments.



-66-
Annex 8(c)
Page 5 of 6
4.10     Traffic  forecasts  should  be  developed  for  alternative  network
configurations.   Since  certain  proposed  links  may  alter  not  only  route
selection bul: also origin/destination patterns, it is expected that the
Consultants will have multiple runs of the trip distribution model, or show
cause as to why this was not done.
Forecasting Impacts
4.11     The Consultants  should explain in detail  their approach to traffic
forecasts "with" and "without" the improvements under study, and particularly
their treatment of volume/speed relationships on links approaching saturation
in some minimum-construction alternatives, since these are likely to have very
large impacts on benefit calculations.
Economic and Qualitative Evaluation
4.12     Due to a great degree of interdependency between various links under
consideration, alternatives will be tested as packages rather than individual
links.  Present worth analysis will be carried out using discount  rates of
10%.
4.13     The  results  of  economic  evaluation  shall  be  supplemented  by  a
qualitative comparison of options including those impacts of different options
whiich were not: captured through engineering/economic analyses.
Refining the Recommended Program
4.14     Following the review of the Consultants'  recommendations and subject
to the approval of the Government, preliminary engineering/costing shall be
refined as a preparation for undertaking detailed engineering.   Particularly
for engineering, this should include, inter alia.
(i)  estimates of quantities  to a 20% accuracy for principal  items
such as earthwork, showing separately ordinary material and
rock, including overhaul as necessary, pavement sub-base, base
and surfacing,  and drainage  and other structures;  preliminary
engineering  for  tunnels, bridges  and  other  major  structures,
including determination of the spans, types of superstructure
and foundations;
(ii)  the proposed mode of constrtiction; and
(iii)  suitable sources of materials.
4.15     Cost estimates, on a basis of links as defined for economic analysis,
should include inter alia;
(i) cost for construction/improvement with and without taxes;



-67-
Annex 8(c)
Page 6 of 6
(ii)  foreign exchange  and  local  currency  components  of  costs  for
civil works, equipment and professional services required; and
(iii)  amounts  and  costs  of  land  acquisitions  required  for  diverse
links.
4.16     Following  the  above,  the  results  of  economic  analysis  shall  be
reviewed in the light of the refined cost estimates for the recommended
package.
Final Report
4.17     The Final Report: of the Study shall include, but not be limited to.
(i)  concise  descriptions  of  the  topographic,  soil  and materials,
drainage, and traffic surveys carried out, and of the principal
methods of engineering design and economic analyses employed;
(ii)  analyses of the conditions, loads and traffic capacity of major
existing highway facilities (and of those being constructed);
(iii)  descriptions and traffic capacities of the proposed links;
(iv)  plans and profiles for the entire lengths of links proposed for
construction/improvement to adequate scale and detail, including
the necessary right-of-way and land acquisition;
(v)  for  each  of  the  project  items,  typical  cross  sections  and
outline specifications;
(vi)  for  major  bridges  and  tunnels,  the  main  design  features,
including foundations, substructure, superstructure and method
of construction;
(vii)  recommendat:ions   on  control   of  access   and   adjacent   land
development as appropriate;
(viii) an assessment of the availability and capacity of any domestic
contractors, who would be in a position to undertake the proposed
construction works; and
(ix)  time schedules, as recommended,  for:  (a) detailed engineering
and preparation of bidding documents; (b) prequalification of
contractors; (c) tendering process; and (d) construction.



-68-
Annex 8 (d)
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE ENGINEERING ADVISOR
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       The Government of Jordan has requested the assistance of the World
Bank in the financing of the Amman Transport and Municipal Development Project.
2.       The  Project  will  comprise  capacity  improvements  at  four  key
intersections,   traffic  engineering   and  management,   equipment   for  and
improvement of road maintenance planning and practices, equipment for vehicle
maintenance, workshop remodelling, traffic safety, equipment for collection
and disposal of solid waste, and technical assistance and training.
3.       These  TOR  are  concerned  with  assistance  to  the  Municipality  of
Amman's Engineering Department to plan and execute road maintenance in a more
cost effective manner lby the preparation of a road inventory, a pavement
evaluation system, road maintenance strategies, technical guidelines on road
maintenance  activities,   drainage   strategy   and  outline   plan,   training
development and quality control.  The above planning activities are seen as
continuous  functions  of  the  Engineering  Department.   The  assistance  is
required to commence these activities.
Organization
4.       The  Municipality  of  Amman  is  in  the  process  of  reorganization
following the appointment of the new Lord Mayor in February 1983. During 1983
an Engineering Department is being established under a Director (and the
overall responsibility of the Technical Assistant to the Lord Mayor) with
responsibility for the supervision and execution of all direct labor and
contract works required by the Municipality. The Engineering Department will
comprise two sections: a Direct Labor Section (DLS) and a Contracts Section
(CS).   Most  routine  maintenance,  and  some  periodic  maintenance,  will  be
carried out by DLS.  It is anticipated that the expenditure on Direct Labor
Works would not exceed 30% of the expenditure of the Municipality on all road
works.
5.       The Direct Labor  Section will  comprise  four main  units;  traffic
engineering, maintenance planning (including the laboratory and quality
control),  road maintenarnce,  and building maintenance.   The  staffing  of DLS
(including the appointment of a Head of DLS) has not yet been finalized but
will comprise staff from the former Public Works Department plus additional
engineers to be engaged on contract terms. The Municipality intends to engage
additional qualified ancd experienced engineers for the Maintenance Planning
Unit by October 31, 1983.  (The minimum would be one senior engineer plus two
middle range engineers.)



-69-
Annex 8(d)
Page 2 of 6
Objectives
15.      The objectives of the technical assistance services are to assist the
])irect Labor Section to;
(a)  establish an inventory of existing road data by categories  (main,
secondary, tertiary, development);
(b)  establish pavement condition indices for main and secondary roads;
(c)  carry out a road structure  analysis  and evaluation and determine
remaining life on main and secondary roads;
(d)  formulate  and develop  road maintenance  strategies,  evaluate  their
cost effectiveness, and prepare guidelines for rehabilitation and
maintenance plans for sealing, spot repair, scarifying, overlay, etc.;
(e)  develop  guideLines  for  control  of  road  openings  and  trench
reinstatement including design of repairs;
(f)  develop  an  outline  strategy  for  drainage  improvements  in  road
maintenance and prepare guidelines for drainage works such as road
gullies, manholes, culverts and outfalls;
(g)  improve  quality  control  over  materials  used  and  workmanship  by
enhancing the capability of the DLS laboratory;
(h)  prepare TOR for the appointment of the Royal Scientific Society (RSS)
or  other  specialist  groups  to  carry  specific  research  into
maintenance requirements e.g. mix design, aggregate testing, and
remaining life analysis of particular roads, and supervise such
appointed  groups,  report  on  findings,  and  assimilate  approved
findings into the DLS work activity and program; and
(i) prepare staff training programs for specific road maintenance tasks
such as patching, concrete work, etc.
Scope of Activities
7.       Technical assistance services would be provided to the Direct Labor
Section over a period of 18 months. They would comprise advice and assistance
on the following main elements of a planned and cost effective road
maintenance program to be carried out by DLS.
Inventory Data File
(a)  Prepare a road inventory system, initially to be maintained in manual
form but suitable for future computer usage.  The system should be
capable of carrying all relevant data on road characteristics and
conditions and of being readily updated.



-70-
Annex 8(d)
Page 3 of 6
(b)  Collect all relevant information from existing records  supplemented
by field surveys by DLS (or sub-contractors).
(c)  Establish  procedures  for  regular  (semi-annual)  updating  of  the
inventory.
Pavement Condition Indices
(a)  Organize and execute  surveys  (on a semi-annual  basis)  of  surface
conditions and roughness for the 95 km of primary road and 115 km of
secondary road (using Hays Meter or equivalent).
(b)  Establish pavement condition indices for Amman and calculate values
for each road section and enter these into the road inventory.
Structural Surveys Analysis and Evaluation and Remaining Life Calculations
(a)  Organize and execute on an annual basis  structural surveys of the
main and secondary road networks using appropriate methods including
the use of available  survey equipment,  e.g.  from the Ministry of
Public Works (deflection surveys, pavement and subsoil cores).
(b)  Analyze  survey  data  and  test  results,  using  traffic  volumes  and
weight, pavement condition indices, etc. to determine the remaining
life of roads.
(c)  Establish,  to extent possible, the remaining life of the pavement,
adequacy of existing pavement designs, load limits and structural
requirements including overlay, scarifying and reconstruction.
Maintenance Standards an,d Ratings
(a)  Establish a maintenance rating system which would indicate when and
what action is necessary at threshold rating levels to trigger
interventions and new works.   The system should distinguish between
different maintenance needs within individual lengths of road, taking
into account traffic flow as well as physical condition. The type of
system to be adlopted would allow assessments to be made in the field
by technicians following suitable training programs.
Maintenance Strategies
(a)  Establish a maintenance rating for each segment of the primary and
secondary road networks, and on an area basis for the tertiary road
network.
(b)  Develop   a   priority   ranking   to   establish   the   urgency   of
maintenance/rehabilitation needs.



-71-
Annex 8(d)
Page 4 of 6
(c)  For each section of the primary and secondary road network, identify
a number of possible maintenance strategies such as patching or spot
repair, sealing, overlay, recycling or reconstruction.
(d)  Analyze each alternative strategy in terms of expected performance
and cost to deltermine the most cost effective alternative.
Guidelines
8.       Based on the findings  from surveys and evaluation work and other
relevant reports and findings, prepare brief guidelines incorporating material
and workmanship specifications for;
-    trench reinstatement          )
-    patching                      )
-    sealing                       )  for various road classifications
-    surfacing                     )
-    pavement designs, and         )
-    drainage works.               )
Bpality Control, Supervision
9..      Establish  procedures  for  the  supervision  and  quality  control  of
maintenance works.
Tiraining
11).     Prepare and deliver training programs for different levels Of staff,
inlcluding:
engineers
technicians
foremen, and
plant operators.
Prepare reports on personnel and organizational responsibility.
Planned Maintenance Program
11.      Prepare  and  introduce  a  planned  maintenance  program  based  on  a
mledium-term cycle (3 to 5 years) including procedures for development of
annual and rolling program budget, and a monitoring and evaluation system.
Technical Assistance and Staff
1.2.     The technical assistance would extend over a period of 18 months.  It
would  require  the  full-time  involvement  of  a  qualified  engineer  (with
extensive experience  in road maintenance),  together  with 4 man-months  of
part-time involvement during the 18 months of an economist to assist with the
economic evaluations of maintenance options.  (The economist would be provided
fErom TA proposed for the Studies Department of the Municipality.)



-72-
Annex 8(d)
Page 5 of 6
Qualifications and Experience of the Road Maintenance Engineer
13.      A qualified engineer with wide experience (15 years minimum) in the
planning and management of road maintenance.  Some of this experience should
have been in urban areas and under conditions similar to those experienced in
Amman. The engineer should have worked within a local government organization
and have been engaged in managerial positions. Experience in training of
technician and lower level staff would be essential.   A proven ability  to
write concise reports would be desirable.
Specific Tasks
14.      The engineer would advise and assist the Head of the Direct Labor
Section with all activities carried out by the Section.  More particularly, he
would work on a day-to-day basis with the Head of the proposed Maintenance
Planning Unit in all aspects of research, evaluation and control described in
the Scope of Activities   He would;
(a) assist with the organization of staff (and outside support) to
develop a road condition inventory system and to record road data;
(b) assist with formulation and development of techniques to establish
pavement condil:ion indices;
(c)  prepare TOR and supervise  outside  studies  (carried out by RSS or
similar) on specific tasks such as mix design, aggregate suitability,
remaining life and pavement strength tests;
(d) prepare a concise report on maintenance strategy and standards 12
months after the start of the assignment;
(e) prepare concise reports on guidelines for;
(i)      drainage,
(ii)      patching.
(iii)      scarifying,
(iv)      overlays, and
(v)      shoulder widening;
(f) prepare and deliver training programs for:
(i)      engineering staff, on management,
(ii)      technician staff, on supervision and quality control,
(iii)      foremen, on operations, and
(iv)      labor, on techniques;
(g) prepare at the end of the period a draft medium-term planned
maintenance program (for 3-5 years);



-73-
Annex 8(d)
Page 6 of 6
(h) coordinate the work of the economist (from the Studies Department) in
evaluating maintenance strategies, and produce a concise joint report
on recommendations for standards; and
(i)  recommend  a  program  of  actions  to  extend  and  strengthen  road
maintenance in the: future.



-74-
Annex 8(e)
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN
AMMAN TIANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR AMMAN DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
1.       Amnan grew from a city of 56,000 people at the end of World War II to
almost  650,000  in  1979.   Originally,  the majority  of  the  population  was
located on the major hills (jabals), and in several deep valleys which meet in
the center of the city.  Over the last decade and a half, developments have
also sprung up on surrounding hills and plateaux on a low density basis,
including in neighboring municipalities.
2.       Accommodating these population increases has placed heavy financial
burdens on the government for provision of basic infrastructures.  There are
still major gaps in the level of service provision, especially of sewerage.
Heavy investments are also in prospect for handling stormwater drainage and
transport.  There is also a need to improve the distribution of other social
services.
3.       Aimman region, as the only region with major agglomeration economies,
will necessarily need to accommodate most increases in jobs and employment
over the next two decades.  Efficient provision of services there will have a
major impact: on national economic development.
4.       Given the size of the existing deficiencies  and the scale of the
future investments required, the Municipality has been concerned to strengthen
its  capacity  to  plan  for  future  growth  and  to  program  public  sector
investments within the Municipality.
5.       The Studies Dlepartment of the Municipality was in 1981 charged with
preparing  development  plans.   Under  the  direction  of  the  Planning  and
Development sections of the Department, the existing situation (population
densities, provision of services) of each of 5 sections of the city has been
analyzed, and proposals made about ultimate densities and service networks.
The proposals for the different sections, together with recommendations about
land use, will be incorporated into a draft master plan for the Municipality
as a whole by June 30, 1983.
6.       The Department then intends  to extend  the development plan in the
following WELyS:
(a) preparation of a "strategy plan" for the year 2000 which indicates
(i) land uses, (ii) proposed densities, (iii) standards of services,
anc (iv) general concepts on investment strategy and finance.   This
activity is programmed to be complete by July 31, 1984.
(b) preparation of a 6-year (1985-1990) investment program covering all
public  sector  investment  within  the municipality  boundaries.   The



-75-
Annex 8(e)
Page 2 of 6
program will be formulated in cooperation with agencies which provide
urban infrastructures, and will provide the basis for the Amman
section  of  the  fourth  5-year  development  plan  (1986-1990).   The
program will be completed by March 31, 1985.
(c)  prefeasibility and feasibility studies for particular projects within
the investment program (to be carried out during and after the
planning period).
(d) analysis of policy questions (e.g., on transport issues, pricing
policies, etc.) germane to development of strategies and investment
programs.  Anong the transport policy questions requiring attention
are measures to ensure that the choice between public transport and
private automobiles (including pricing policies), and also that
between different modes of public transport (taxis versus buses) are
economic.
7.       One importanl: aspect of the planning exercise will be to update the
strategic urban transport planning model developed by the Ammcn Regional
Transportation Study (ARTS), (Halcrow Fox and Associates, Jouzy an'd Partners,
Final Report May, 1981), as modified by subsequent studies, to provide
guidance on future transport investment and policy priorities in the region.
8.       The Studies Department has an existing staff of 24 professionals with
architectural, engineering,  and planning qualifications.   (The Department  is
also responsible for approval of proposals under planaing regulations.)   In
order to implement the next phases of the planning activity, the Municipality
intends to strengthen the staff of the Planning Section with 2 economists, 2
transport  planners,  2 municipal  engineers  and  a  geologist/soil  mechanics
engineer.  Given the level of salary scales, the Municipality will be unable
to engage persons with extensive experience in the above fields.  I:t therefore,
is  seeking  technical  assistance  personnel  in  urban  economics,  transport
planning and municipal engineering who will undertake substantive planning
tasks,  will  provide  on-the-job  training  to other members  of  the Planning
Section, and also perform training activities to be icdentified in detail by
the Project Coordination and Training Unit (PCTU) of the Amman Transport and
Municipal Development Project.



-76-
Annex 8(e)
Page 3 of 6
Terms of Reference for
Urban Economist/Financial Analyst (24 months)
Duration:                                                           24 months
Qualifications and Experience:
The candidate should have a good degree in economics and sound
postgraduate qualifications in economics or transport planning.  Some
engineering or business administration background would be an
advantage, as would experience in teaching economic theory, transport
economics, and/or public finance at the university level.  At least
12 years working experience would be desirable, including some in
local governument.  He or she should have appraised the financial and
economic ability of both revenue-earning and non-revenue earning
investment  projects.   He or  she  should  also have  participated  in
formulation of major multi-sectorial government investment programs,
ideally as a team leader working for the government concerned.
Duties; Assist in;
(a) preparing the Amman 20 year development strategy and the
6-year investment program;
(b)  preparing  feasibility  studies  for  and  appraising  proposed
projects;
(c) preparing economic and financial analyses as required on
questions of taxes, utility and transport tariffs, etc.;
(d) developing systems to monitor level of service provision,
increases/decreases in service deficiencies, as a guide both
to Mainagerial actions and setting investment priorities within
the municipality (including, specifically, up to 4 months in
assisting the Road Maintenance Engineering Advisor to evaluate
alternative strategies for road maintenane); and
(e)  training of municipality  staff by giving  lectures,  carrying
out workshops on evaluation and appraisal techniques, and
providing on-the-job guidance and advice to less experienced
personnel.



-77-
Annex 8(e)
Page 4 of 6
Terms of Reference for
Municipal Engineer/Planner
Location: Studies and Planning Department of the Amman Municipality.
Duration of Appointment: 18 months
Qualifications and Experience:
A qualified municipal engineer with wide experience (12 years
minimum) in the engineering and managemenit of municipal services
including roads, sewers, water supplies, drainage, street lighting,
wastes  disposal,  housing  development,  upgrading  of  services,
settlements and building regulations.  He or she will have studied
and been engaged in urban development planning and the preparation
of capital and revenue budgets.
Duties:    Assist in;
(a)    preparing the Amman strategic development plan, 6 year investment
program, and urban action plans;
(b)    developing  appropriate  municipal   infrastructure   policies   and
standards and levels of municipal services appropriate to the
fiscal reality of the population and city revenues;
(c)    preparing municipal engineering/planning reports on the provision,
operation and maintenance of municipal services;
(d)    preparing capital and revenue budgets which incorporate proposals
flowing from the strategic and immediate action planning work;
(e)    preparing design briefs for immediate action plans;
(f)    liaising with the relevant agencies  and departments  in order to
prepare the investment program and follow up projects and action
programs; and
(g)    advising/training   municipal   counterpart   staff   in   municipal
engineering functions.



-78-
Annex 8(e)
Page 5 of 6
Terms of Reference for
Transport Planning Advisor
Location; Studies and Planning Department of the Amman Municipality.
Duration of Appointment; 18 months
Qualifications and Experience;
An urban transport planner with postgraduate (master's degree)
qualifications and preferably engineering background. A minimum of
twelve (12) years of experience in urban transport planning, with
emphasis on policy development, working knowledge of quantitative
urban transport models and appraisal of specific projects.
General Duties; Assist in;
(a)    preparing  the  Amman  strategic  development  plan  and  6  year
investment program;
(b)    identifying a 6-year prioritized program of capital investments in
urban transport and advancing the program towards implementation;
(c)    overseeing,  coordinating,  and evaluating  diverse  elements  of the
on-going   transport   improvements   program   (feasibility/design
studies, project implementation, monitoring of impacts);
(d)    developing policies directed at various aspects of urban transport;
(e)    setting up and maintaining a regional  transport data bank to be
used for planning/design purposes;
(f)    advising/training municipal counterpart staff in transport planning
techniques and processes.
Specific Duties:
Assist, inter alia, in;
(a)    following-up,   advancing,   coordinating  and  evaluating  on-going
transport   improvements   program   (major   intersections,   traffic
improvements, PTC fleet and facilities improvements, strategy study
of  future  transport  network  improvements,  transport  terminals
project, etc.).  Individual components of this program will be at
different stages of development (from proposal to beginning of
operations).   This  task should  be done  in cooperation  with  the
Traffic Engineering Advisor;



-79-
Annex 8(e)
Page 6 of 6
l
(b)    developing  transport  regulatory  and  investment  policy  in  two
priority  areas. (i)  the  role  of  diverse  modes  in Amman  urban
transport,  in  particular  the  roles  of  private  automobiles  and
service taxis; and (ii) parking, with emphasis on the introduction
of parking charges;
(c)    develop:ing a planning-programming-budgeting system (PPBS) for urban
transport  planning.   This  is  to  be  done  by  shaping  a  6-year
transport investment program from on-going, scheduled and proposed
projects, and training the counterpart staff to update the program
over time;
(d)    in  parallel  with  similar  efforts  of  the  Traffic  Engineering
Advisor, developing an area-wide transport planning data bank
containing but not limited to transport system inventories; traffic
volumes and level of service characteristics; public transport
demand/supply  measures;   vehicle  ownership;   and  socio/economic
informa t ion;
(e)    assisting  local  counterpart  staff  in  acquiring  and  exercising
knowledge  of  transport  planning  techniques:  demand  modelling,
generation  of  alternatives,  costing,  impact  analysis,  etc.   In
particular, assisting local staff in operating and updating the
ARTS model, and in interpreting/using the model output in the
planning process to define viable strategies and to identify
specific projects;
(f)    reviewing  the Jordan National Transport Study  and  assessing  the
relevance and impact of its findings and recommendations concerning
the Amman Region; and
(g)    providing  on-the-job  training  to  count.erpart  staff,  and  other
training as organized by the Project Coordination and Training Unit.



-80-
Annex 8(f)
Page 1 of 3
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRAFFIC POLICE TRAINING COMPONENT
Terms of Reference
1. Background
1.01       The Government of Jordan has requested the assistance of the World
Bank in preparing and implementing the above project. The project will, inter
alia, consist of;
(i)      capacity improvements at several strategic traffic bottlenecks  in
Amman;
(ii)      traffic improvements for the benefit of pedestrians,  private cars
and public transport vehicles in the central area of Amman, along
five major radial corridors, and on some isolated intersections;
(iii)     a series of studies, technical assistance and training programs.
1.02       These terms of reference are concerned with one element from this
last group, namely a training program for the Amman Traffic Police.
1.03       Ihe Amman Traffic Police confront a particularly difficult  task.
Traffic conditions in central Amman, an employment and shopping attraction for
the majority of the region's population, are characterized by jam densities of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic throughout 12 hours of the day.  On the one
hand, problems are caused by irregular geometry of the street system, frequent
intersections, and ill-defined boundaries between sidewalks and pavements; on
the other, by pedestrian volumes  exceeding  capacity of sidewalks;  numerous
street vendors; heavy through traffic between east and west Amman; and a large
number of public transport terminals, accounting for nearly all bus and
service-taxi, lines in Amman.  Most of the traffic signal installations in the
central area have been switched off and the traffic police have been relied
upon  to keep  the  traffic moving  through  intersections.   Going  beyond  the
control area, traffic management by engineering methods has lagged far behind
road building in the rapidly-growing parts of Amman.  As a consequence, there
exist numerous locations where traffic control devices (signs, signals and
markings)  have not  been  provided  to  assign  priority  between  intersecting
streams of vehicles, or between vehicles  and pedestrians.   This has  led in
turn to a large number of accidents --an additional load on the traffic police.
1.04       In attempting to improve traffic  flow conditions  for pedestrians
and motor vehicle users and to increase traffic safety, Amman Urban Transport
and Municipal Development Project will rely both on engineering means
(additions to the road network, traffic engineering) and on traffic police
activities,  specifically  through  training.   It  is  the  intention  of  the
Government to engage consultants to assist in preparing and implementing a
traffic police training component.



-81-
Annex 8(f)
Page 2 of 3
2. Objectives
2.01       The g       of this component  is to improve  the effectiveness  of
traffic policemen in performing diverse traffic management activities.  The
more specific objective is to strengthen the existing training program of the
Jordanian police in the area of traffic, by improving its contents and
teaching methods. The emphasis of the component will be on those aspects of
traffic police work that link the police and traffic engineering activities,
namely (i) selective law-enforcement; and (ii) accident investigation and
reporting.,
3. Scope of Work
3.01       The  consultants  shall  be  affiliated  with  an  established  and
reputable program in traffic police training.
3.02       The assignment will consist of three parts:
(i)      a diagnostic study;
(ii)      supplements to annual short courses in Jordan; and
(iii)     specialized training courses.
Diagnostic Study
3.03       The consultants shall carry out an in-depth diagnostic study of the
traffic police in Amman, with a focus on:
(i)      evaluation of field performance of traffic policemen, particularly
in enforcement and traffic accident investigation, and
(ii)      evaluation  of  the  portion  of  the  program  given  by  1:he Police
Training College which deals with police traffic management, and of
any other training courses organized in this area for traffic
policemen; the evaluation should include, inter alia, program
coverage, course contents, teaching and grading methods, teaching
aids; and characteristics of the student body and active policemen,
particularly their knowledge of the English language.
3.04       The outcome of the diagnostic  study will  be  in the  form of a
training needs assessment for both students and active traffic policemen,
including officers.   The  recommendations  will  be  organized  in two  action
programs.
(i)      proposed action program for improvements  to the existing traffic
police training effort; and
(ii)      proposed  format,  content  and  audience  for  a  Supplement  to  the
existing Annual 6-Week Course given in Amman in November/December.
The supplement would take the form either of additions/changes to
the existing course, or a new short course.



-82-
Annex 8(f)
Page 3 of 3
3.05       It  is  expected   that  the  greatest  practical   difficulty   in
implementing the supplement will be posed by the language of instruction.  The
consultants  should  address  this  point  in  their  report,  stating  how  they
propose to resolve this difficulty.
3.06       Two (2) man-months have been budgeted for the Diagnostic Study.
Annual Short Course
3.07       Following the review and subject to the approval of the diagnostic
study by the Amman Traffic Police and the World Bank, the consultants shall
prepare and implement the supplementary traffic management course, exact dates
to be agreed upon.   The level of effort for this course will be four (4)
man-months.  Subject to a favorable review of the first short course, it may
be repeated in the next two years.
Additional Specialized Training
3.07       On the basis of their experience with the Amman Traffic Police,
gained through the Diagnostic Study and the first Annual Short Course,  the
consultants should prepare and submit to the Traffic Police and the World Bank
a proposed program for a 6 to 9 month specialist training in police traffic
management for a select group of Jordanian traffic police officers.   It is
expected that five (5) police officers would participate in this program in
any  one  year.   Following  the  requisite  approvals,  the  consultants  will
implement the proposed program in the academic year 1985/86.   Subject to a
favorable review of the first year experience with the program, it may be
repeated in the following academic year.
4.  Local Consultants' Participatn
4.01       In order to make use of local expertise in traffic safety matters,
and to hasten its further development, the consultants shall be assisted
during i:he Diagnostic Study and the Supplementary Courses by traffic siafety
specialists from Jordanian universities and/or the Royal Scientific Society,
engaged under a separate contract.



-83-
Annex 9
Page 1
JORDAiN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. GENERAL
1.         Costs.   For purposes  of  the  economic  analysis,  costs  have  been
estimated at baseline cost, plus physical contingencies, excluding taxes.  No
conversion factors have been used since (a) there are no large slacks in
resource use (including labor) in Jordan, (b) plentiful external resources
appear  to  be  available  on  the  margin  to  finance  public  and  private
investments,  and  (c)  restrictions  on  trade  take  the  form  of  taxes  and
subsidies rather than quantitative controls.
B.  TRANSPORT ICOMPONENTS
1. Value of Travel Time
2.         The only benefits to be quantified for both the major initersections
and traffic improvement components are travel time savings. Vehicle operating
cost and energy (fuel) savings were computed for corridor improvements, for
which a satisfactory speed-based fuel consumption model was available, but not
for the major intersections due to a lack of reliable estimates of fuel
consumption of idling vehicles.  Based on very partial information, exclusion
of these savings probably results in intersection benefits being understated
by 20% to 25%.  Travel time savings were valued at one-third of the average
wage rate.  The 1988 value of hourly time savings was taken to represent the
average from 1986 to 1995.  Two specific values, a "base" and a "low" value,
were used;
(a)    The base value was drawn from the household survey carried out in
Amman by the ARTS, which found an average iincome of JD 1,456 per employee in
1979. Adjusting for inflation (at 12.1% in 1979, 11.1% in 1980 and 1981, and
8% in 1982) and assuming a productivity increase of 5.2% per annum (as it was
in the 1975-79 period), the 1983 average wage in Amman area would be JD
2,664. Assuming a future productivity increase of 2.5% per annum, the average
wage would be JD 3,014 in 1988.  Assuming 280 working days per year and 8
hours I?er day, a value of JD 0.45 per hour of time saved (in 1983 prices) is
obtained./l
(b)    the  "low"  value  was  based  on  country-wide  compensation  data
(excluding agriculture) which gave an average wage of JD 1,016 in 1979.  After
adjusting  for productivity  increase  and inflation as under  (a)  above,  the
average wage in 1983 is JD 1,859.   Further adjustments for productivity at
2.5% per annum give a 1988 average wage of JD 2,103 (in 1983 terms), resulting
in a "low" value of JD 0.31 per hour of time saved.
/1 The ARTS estimated a somewhat higher value than this, (equivalent to JD
0.53) which was based upon average wages of motorized trip takers.



-84--
Annex 9
Page 2
2. Major Intersections
3.  Volume/Delay  Curves:   Travel  time  savings  comprise  the  reduction  in
intersection delays due  to the project.   Delay was  defined as  the time a
vehicle spends from joining a queue of vehicles to exiting an intersection,
over .nd above the time spent in passing through the intersection at a free
flow speed.  For each intersection,  a separate network simulation model was
built and calibrated for the current conditions on the basis of traffic counts
(manuaLl and automatic), and delay measurements (obtained using test car runs
and time-lapse photography).   In the model, traffic volumes are expressed in
vehicles per hour, rather than in passenger car equivalents, since trucks are
banned from Amman during most of the day and the proportion of buses at these
intersections was low.  The model computes average delays  per vehicle  as a
function  of  total  hourly  volume  of  traffic  entering  an  intersection.   An
intersection reaches physical capacity at traffic volumes at which the delay
curve tends to infinity. Economic capacity is less since travellers will take
other  routes,  travel  at  other  times,  or  not  travel  at  all.   Based  on
experi.ence elsewhere, and the shape of the calibrated volume/delay curves
which have sharply rising slopes at the 4-6 minute level (see Diagram 1), the
maximum average delay per vehicle was limited to 5 minutes for purposes of
calculating reductions in delay from various improvements. (Average existing
(Marchl 1983) busy period delays were; 2.3 minutes for Sports City; 4.9 minutes
DIAGRAM 1: Volume/Delay Curves
Average                 without the
Delay                      project              with the
(minutes                                         project
per
vehicle)    5 minutes
D
ma
I
wvo
0
DW
0
Traffic Volume
V___________________ _ V ' IV   (vehicles/hour)
0       ep1    2
A. Benefit of the Project at:
1. Volume VO: (DwO-DW)*V*(value of time)
o  D 0
2. Volume V1: (D  -Dw)*V *(value of time)
3. Volume V2. 0
B. Intersection Capacity without the Project:
1. Economic Capacity - Ye
2. Physical Capacity - Vp



-85-
Annex 9
Page 3
for Nasser Circle, 1.3 minutes for Third Circle, and 3.6 minutes for Nasr
Intersection).  There was substantial variation  in average delays on specific
traffic  streams within each  intersection; for purposes of this  anialysis, the
distribution of traffic among approaches and turning movements was assumed to
remain constant for different volumes, as was the traffic composition in terms
of vehicle types.
4.  Data from automatic counts in the vicinity of the four intersections were
analyzed  to establish variations  in hourly and daily  traffic volumes.  While
iLhese differed from one approach to another at the same intersection, as well
as between  intersections, a common pattern  emerged characterized  by a 2-hour
"'peak" and another 10-12 hour "busy" period over which traffic was steady but
somewhat lower than  in the  peak.   For  the  economic  analysis,  the  following
traffic pattern was assumed for all intersections over the forecast period;
Hourly Group                       No. of Hours/Year             Ratio of Traffic to
"Busy" Period
I ("peak")                            598                           1.128
2 ("busy period")                   2,912                           1.000
3                                     364                           0.772
4                                   3,406                            0.429
5.  Design Alternatives;   For two of the four intersections  (Sports City and
Nasser Circle), three mutually exclusive alternative designs with increasingly
higher capital costs were considered;  at-grade improvements (G), an underpass
(U), and an underpass plus overpass (U+P). For reasons described below,only a
single  at-grade  alternative  was  tested  against  a  do-nothing  case  at  the
remaining  two  intersections.   For  each  alternative  design,  the  appropriate
network model was modified to reflect changes in the performance of the
intersection with alternative designs.  The model was then  run to generate a
volume/delay  curve  for  the  alternative   in  question.   Since  the  traffic
forecast and optimal design for Third Circle will be affected by the routing
and design chosen for the Jabals ring road (the feasibility study for which is
to be carried out under the project), an analysis was performed of only at
grade  improvements  (realignment  and  signalization).   In  the  case  of  Nasr
intersection, a proposal to add a ramp from the Inner Ring Road to the
penetrator was rejected on the basis of low traffic flows and summary benefit
calculations.  The quantified benefits at this intersection arise largely from
signalization.   Unquantified  benefits  importantly  include  improved  access  to
the Nasr low income neighborhood from the Yarmouk Road.
6.  Growth Forecasts;  The ARTS land  use/transport model was run  to produce
"busy period" hourly approach volumes for each intersection in  1995, the last
year of analysis in each case.  Approach volumes for intermediate years were
computed using a constant growth rate between traffic volumes observed in 1983
and the 1995 projection. This resulted in the following traffic iorecasts;



-86-
Annex 9
Page 4
BUSY PERIOD DEMAND AT FOUR MAJOR INTERSECTIONS
Hourly Volumes (Vehicles)
Imtersections                           1983/a        1986LD       1995Lc
Sports City                              5,940            6,780        10,054
Nasser Circle                             6,150           6,580         9,790
Third Circle                              5,870           6,230          7,490
Nasr Intersection                         3,794           4,060         5,113
/a From February/March 1983 volume counts
/b Interpolated between 1983 and 1995
/c Forecast from the ARTS land use/transport model
These forecasts are conservative, as the implicit annual growth rates range
from 2% to 4.5% (compared with 6% to 10% traffic growth rates observed in the
1979-1983 period).
7.  'For purposes of estimating delays  and volumes  for the different design
alternatives, demands were assumed to be perfectly inelastic with respect to
delays in each hourly group, i.e. there would be no generated traffic due to
reductions in delays from improvements or capacity increases, nor would there
be  opportunities  to  spread  traffic  over  other  periods  of  the  day.   For
purposes of evaluating the delays when volumes exceed economic capacity, the
excess traffic is assumed to take alternative routes at a delay of 5 minutes.
This approach results in zero benefits in hours when traffic volumes are over
economic capacity in the "with" and "without project" cases (see Diagram I).
8. For each intersection, economic analyses were carried out pairwise, on the
basis  of  the  incremental   rate-of-return,   starting  with  a  lowest-cost
improvement vs. a do-nothing case, comparing the better of the two against a
case with a next higher capital cost, etc.  Volume/delay curves  for the two
cases at hand were compared to find the difference in average delay for a
given traffic volume for each hourly group (see Table 1 on page 92).   Total
delay   savings   in  person-hours   were   computed   from   delay   savings   in
vehicle-hours   using   a   conservative   estimate   of   occupancy   of   2.5
persons/vehicle,  including drivers.   Hourly benefit was the product of delay
savings in person-hours and value of time (para.2).  Benefits for each of the
four hourly  groups  (para.4)  were  aggregated  to get  annual  benefits.   This
prociedure was carried out for the first year of operation and for 1995,
interpolating along a compound curve  for the intermediate years.  First year
rates-of-return were computed for each pairwise comparison of alternatives to
checlk the timing of construction.  In no case did this fall beneath 17% on the
base estimates of time value and costs. Once the optimal size of facility was
determined, an overall rate-of-return was computed for that case (the economic
design  vs.  the do-nothing  alternative).   Sensitivity  analyses  were  carried



-87-
Annex 9
Page 5
out using the "low" value of travel time, and costs 25% higher than the base
estiinate. Only in the case of Nasser Circle would the economic alternative
change  under  unfavorable  benefit/cost  assumptions;   there,  the  incremental
rate of return of building the overpass as well as the underpass was 9I% using
the low benefit estimate and high cost estimate.   Analysis  showed  that  the
value of time saving would have to fall by 80% in the case of the Sports City
Intersection, and by 44% in the case of the Nasser Circle, in order to bring
ERRs  down to  the  10% opportunity  cost: of capital  in Jordan.   The benefit
estimate for Nasser Circle is likely to be significantly underestimated (see
Table 3, Note c/ on page 94).
9. The results of the analysis were as follows;
\                ~~~~Rates of Return (%
st          Base                _   +25%
Value of Time  Base       Base   Low    Blase      Low
Intersecti.on/      Economic Cost
0tLL    a  (1983) JD m)Ib)               FYRR      ERR    ERR       ERR     ERR
Sports City
G vs. N                 0.11                  1018         -       -       -        -
V vs. G                 1.20                    50         -       -        -       -
(U+P) vs. U             2.63                    17        27      20      23       16
(U+P) vs. N             2.63                    73        58     43       48       35
Nasser Circle
G vs. N                 0.40                   129         -       -        -       -
U vs. G                 1.42                   121         -       -        -       -
(U+P) vs. U             4.05                    19        21      13      16        9
(U+P) vs. N            4.05                     56        40      27      32       20
Third Circle
G vs. N                    0.35                   135       134      92      107       73
Nasr ]:nterchange
G vs. N                    0.40                   269       274    191       221      154
SOURCE; Tables 2 to 5
Notes
(a)   Options: N= do nothing; G= at grade; U= underpass; P= overpass;
U+P= underpass + overpass;
(b)   Cost of higher cost option;
(c)   "-" means not calculated.
It will be noted that  first year rates of return  (FYRR)  are sometimes
higher than ERRs.  This results from the facts that (a) benefit flows tend to
decrease after a certaln point as volumes rise with the project (beyond point
V<, in Diagram I), (b) benefit flows have been calculated for only  10 years
and (c) the FYRR is the level of first year benefits divided by investment



-'88-
Annex 9
Page 6
cost i,ith no allowance for repayment of cost; the ERR, by equating present
values of benefits and costs, is a measure of net return over cost.
10.      The above procedure gives a conservative  estimate of net benefits
because;
(i)     it uses low traffic growth rates;
(ii)     it  uses  conservative  estimates  for  vehicle  occupancy  and
average delay at intersection capacity;
(iii)     it  ignores  benefits  to  attracted  traffic  and  to  traffic
elsewhere in the network;
(iv)     it does not account for fuel savings due to reduced vehicle
idling time;
(v)     it uses the 1988 hourly value of time savings  for the whole
1986-1995 period.
(vi)     it values travel time savings of salaried drivers and business
travelers at the same rate as for all other travelers; and
(vii)     it considers a 10 year horizon only,  while  the improvements
would provide benefits over a longer period.
3. Traffic Improvements
11.      Traffic  Growth.   Traffic  growth  rates  estimated  by  the ARTS  land
use/ltransport model for various screen-lines in the Amman area were used as
the basis for economic analyses of the traffic improvements components. These
rates vary according to the location (as specified for individual components
below) but were generally in the 6% to 8% range.  Because the roads proposed
for improvements are the principal arterial roads, actual traffic growth rates
are likely to be higher, since screen-line volumes represent averages for
several classes of street.
12.      Central Business District.   This component would yield benefits  to
pedestrians,  public  transport  operators,  and  general  traffic.   Pedestrian
benefits, which have not been quantified, would consist of easier walking
downTtown (due to improved and more continuous sidewalks) and faster and safer
crossings (due to a pedestrian bridge; traffic signals where there is now no
traffic control; and shorter cycles where the traffic police now operate
excessively long ones). Public transport vehicle operators would benefit from
route rationalization, relocation of bus and taxi terminals, and creation of
bus only streets.   Twenty bus routes  and one service  taxi route would be
shortened by 0.5 km to 0.75 km for a saving in running costs of JD 39,000 per
annum.   (Few passenger time savings would be generated since passengers have
apparently learned to board/alight from public transport vehicles away from
the present terminals in order to avoid the most congested or meandering



Annex 9
Page 7
links).   General  traffic  (also  including  public  transport  vehicles)  would
benefit from increased safety and speeds, and lower vehicle operating costs
due to improved pavements, better separation of pedestrians and vehicles,
remioval  of  buses  and  taxis  from  some  congested  links,  a  more  efficient
circulation system, and the recommissioning of existing signals, installation
of new ones and, most importantly, their continued operation through staffing
improvements.
13. It is not possible to quantify the benefits of an area traffic control
system such as this one without a computer-based model and an expensive data
collection effort.  A comparison of delays observed on critical approaches to
three major intersections in the central area with delays computed from a
theoretical  model,   assuming   efficient   signal   control   and  appropriate
channelization at these locations,  revealed potential  time savings of about
1.80,000 vehicle hours per annum (JD 320,000 in passenger time savings) at
current traffic levels.  Just these savings would suffice to give a first-year
rate-of-return of about 40% on the investment for the entire central area
scheme, equivalent to an ERR of 27% over a 5-year period.   Since the above
estimates are based on independent analyses at several key locations, actual
benefits  from a synchronized system are likely to be substantially higher,
provided that all the proposed improvements are made.   The time savings to
public transport operators mentioned above are also included in the ERR
'presented in the text, since without the impetus provided by the project to
develop a comprehensive scheme for the CBD, the route changes, (and bus only
streets and parking station changes required to realize these benefits), would
not have occurred.
14. Corridor Improvements;  For two corridors (Misdar Street/Madaba Road and
Al Quds (Jerusalem) Street), out of a total of five to be improved under the
Project, basic traffic data were collected during November 1982 - January
1983, including;
(i)     24-hour  automatic  traffic  counts  for  one  week  at  selected
locations;
(ii)     6-hour classified manual count;
(iii)     small sample of vehicle occupancies;
(iv)     small sample of travel times along the corridor, from test car
runs.
15. Both corridors are radial, approaching central Amman from the south (Al
Mis,dar Street ) and the southwest (Al Quds Street), serving distinct areas
without alternative routes to the center.  Each corridor could therefore be
analyzed on its own.
16. Traffic impacts of the proposed improvements ("with" project case)
relative to a no-improvement ("without" project) case were compared to
economic costs of improvements.  Though considerable benefits will accrue to
pedestrians, only' vehicle-related benefits were quantified, including travel
time savings of travelers and vehicle fuel savings due to increased average
travel speed.   For the sake of simplicity,  driver time savings  for public
transport vehicles were treated in the same way as passenger time savings.
Each corridor was divided into links according to road geometry, terrain,



-90-
Annex 9
Page 8
traffic and adjacent land-uses.   Benefits were computed on a link basis, and
corpared to appropriate link costs in order to eliminate the outlying links
where traffic volumes were too low to justify the proposed improvements.
Costs and benefits for the remaining links were aggregated and rates-of-return
were computed for the corridor as a whole.
17.      Current traffic data were used to develop a model of average daily
traffic  in  1983.   Data  on  seasonal  variations  showed  that  November  and
December were close to the "average month" of the year.   The daily pattern,
faithfully  repeated  six  days  a week, was  essentially  uniform  over  10-12
daylight  hours.   Traffic  growth  rates,  predicted  by  the  ARTS  across  a
screenline across both the Madaba Road and Al Quds Street corridors, vary from
7% to 8% in the 1980-85 period, thereafter dipping to 5% to 6%. For analysis,
a  flat  traffic  growth  rate  of  6%  per  annum  was  adopted.   This  is  a
coniservative assumption, since counts carried out in November 1982 indicate
3-year  rates of growth  in excess  of  10%.  Traffic  stream  composition  and
vehiicle occupancies were assumed constant over the relevant period.
18.      Link-specific  relationships  between  traffic  volumes  and  speeds  1/
calibrated for Amman by the ARTS were modified in the light of current traffic
volume counts and test car travel times to arrive at speed/volume models for
the  "without  improvement"  case.   These  relationships  assume  a  constant
"free-flow" link speed up to a certain critical link volume; thereafter the
speed falls linearly to a minimum (saturation) speed reached at capacity (the
lat:ter expressed in vehicles per hour per lane 2/).  It was clear that the
ARTS speed/flow curves underestimated the capacity of individual links while
overestimating travel speeds.  The  absence  of lane discipline  and creative
ways of lining up at intersections and resolving priority conflicts introduce
a great deal of uncertainty into traffic flow modelling in Amman and the
relationships used here are therefore subject to considerable uncertainty.
19.      For the "with improvement" case, speed/volume models were generally
chosen  by   estimating   increases   in   capacity   and   speed   changes   for
less-than-capacity flows (i.e., the slope of a speed-volume line).  Typically,
linlk capacities with the proposed improvements were 10 to 15% higher than
without them.
20.              In view of the limited nature of the proposed  improvements,
both corridors are likely to become fully saturated towards the end of the
decade.   Therefore, a 5-year period of analysis was selected.   The  flow of
bernefits should continue beyond this period, depending on strategic transport
decisions to be made in Amman over the next few years on (1) the role of
public versus private transport, (2) completion of major ring arterial routes,
and (3) traffic r Iestraint measures.
1/       This is average travel speed including stopped times.
2/       The ARTS link flow models were calibrated in vehicles rather than in
passenger car equivalents.  The same was adopted for this exercise.



-91-
Annex 9
Page 9
21.              In some cases, forecast traffic volume exceeded link capacity
in a "without project" alternative.   Since excess volumes  were low,  it was
assumed that they would be carried without further reduction in the saturation
speed, thus slightly underestimating benefits.
22.              Fuel savings were computed on the basis of fuel consumption
models developed for different vehicle classes under urban driving conditions
in Amman by the ARTS.  Benefits in monietary terms were computed usin1g economic
cost of fuel for the vehicle mix in Am.man as developed by the ARTS, adjusted
to the 1983 level.
23.              Benefits for tae second, third and fourth year were estimated
by interpolation (along a compound cuarve) between the computed first and fifth
year benefits.
24.      Preventive  costs  of  maintenance  of  works  under  the  project  are
assumed  to  be  minor;  no  benefit  is  allowed  for  the  savings  in  regular
maintenance made possible by the upgrading measures.
25.      Tables   6  and   7   show   net   benefit   flows   and   the   economic
rates-of-return  for the two corridors,  under  different  assumptions  for  the
va:Lue of travel time, costs, and benefits.
C. WORKSHOP COMPONENT ASSUMPTIONS
26.      With past policies, staff would rise in line with vehicle fleet; with
the project, no additional staff would be required for at least 5 years.
27.,     With introd'uction of more regular replacement policies, downtime per;
vehicle is expected to decrease by aT minimum of 5% points from 20% to 15%,
implying a 5% smaller fleet can handle given demands.  For the next 5 years,
this  implies  a fleet expansion of one  less unit annually  than without  the
project, or, on average, a saving of about JD 10,000 per year.
28.      The  economies  arising  from  the  revised  replacement  and  spares
policies are estimated to reduce costs of spares per vehicle by 25% from the
existing level over 5 years.
29.      The flows corresponding to these assumptions are set out in Annex 9,
Table 8. Assuming no scrap value after five years, the rate of return on this
coumponent would come to 54%. A reduction in net benefit by 50% wouald imply an
ERR of 23%.



-92-
Annex 9
Table 1
Table 1: INCREMENTAL SAVINGS IN
INTERSECTION DELAY (min/veh.)
._       \               ~~~~~~~I I_
Year    I               1986          I            1995
Location/Option          Hourly  |    1       2     3      4        1     2      3     4
Group   I                             _
Sports City
G vs. N                        |  2.60  2.10  0.75  0.50        0      0   2.40  0.50
U vs. G                        |  1.45  1.10  0.25    0       1.10  2.50  1.55    0
U + P vs. V                    I 0.90  0.45  0.10    0        2.85  2.20  1.00  0.10
U + P vs. N                    I 4.95  3.65  1.10  0.50  I 3.95  4.70  4.95  0.60
Nasser (MOI) Circle                 I
G vs. N a/                     |    0   1.35  1.55  -0.12       0      0     0      0
U vs. G                           2.45  2.60  0.82   0.36       0      0   2.48  0.44
U + P vs. U                    I 2.20  0.90    0         0    0.70  2.03  2.17    0
U + P vs. N         ;             4.65  4.85  2.40   0.25   0.70  2.03  4.65  0.43
Third Circle
C vs. N a/                     I  2.33  1.10 -0.42 -0.42  |  0   1.25    0  -0.40
Nasr Intersection                  I
G vs. N         I              | 4.53  3.53  0.87  0.38  | 4.25  4.64  3.32  0.46
N = do nothing; G   at-grade improvemenl:s; U = underpass;
U+P = underpass and overpass.
Source: Dar Al Handasah, Four Major Intersections in Amman, Traffic Engineering
and Design Study, Working Papers for Feasibility Study
a! Negative entries occur because the circle permits lower delays than traffic
signals at lower traffic volumes.



-93-
Annex 9
Tab].e 2
Table 2; SPORTS CITY INTERSECTION
NET BENEFIT FLOWS (JD'000,000) AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (ERR)
Year          a/      b/      c/     d/      e/      f/     g/      h/     i/      j/
0          -      -0.59  -0.93  -1.16  -0.93  -1.16  -1.71  -2.14  -1.71  -2.14
1        -0.11   -0.50  -0.50  -0.63  -0.50  -0.63  -0.92  -1.15  -0.92  -1.15
2        +1.12   +0.54  +0.24  +0.24  +0.17  +0.17  +1.91  +1.91  +1.32  +1.32
3          -      +0.61  +0.30  +0.30  +0.21  +0.21  +2.02  +2.02  +1.39  +1.39
4          -      +0.69  +0.37  +0.37  +0.26  +0.26  +2.13  +2.13  +1.47  +1.47
5          -      +Q.77  +0.46  +0.46  +0.32  +0.32  +2.25  +2.25  +1.55  +1.55
6          -      +0.87  +0.57  +0.57  +0.39  +0.39  +2.38  +2.38  +1.64  +1.64
7          -      +0.98  +0.71  +0.71  +0.49  +0.49  +2.51  +2.51  +1.73  +1.73
8          -      +1.11  +0.88  +0.88  +0.61  +0.61  +2.65  +2.65  +1.83  +1.83
9          -      +1.25  +1.09  +1.09  +0.75  +0.75  +2.80  +2.80  +1.93  +1.93
10          -      +1.41  +1.35  +1.35  +0.93  +0.93  +2.95  +2.95  +2.03  +2.03
11.         -      +1.59. +1.62  +1.62  +1.12  +1.12  +3.12  +3.12  +2.15  +2.15
ERR (%)       -       49.5   27      23      20      16     58      48     43      35
a/   Improvements at-grade vs. do-nothing; since first year benefits so high
further benefits and ERR not calculated.
b/   Underpass vs. at-grade design.
c/   Underpass plus overpass vs. underpass alone.
d/   As in (c) with a cost increase of 25%.
e/   As in (c) but with "low" value of travel time.
fT   As in (e) with a cost increase of 25%.
&/  lUnderpass plus overpass vs. do-nothing ("the" ERR).
h/   As in (g) with a cost increase of 25%.
i/   As in (g) with a "low" value of travel time.
j/   As in (i) with a cost increase of 25%.



-94-
Annex 9
Table 3
Table 3: NASSER (MINISTRY OF INTERIOR) CIRCLE
NET BENEFIT FLOWS (JD'000,000) AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (ERR)
Year         a/      b/      c/     d/      e/      f/     g/      h/     i/      j/
Cl        -      -0.52  -1.63  -2.04  -1.63  -2.04  -2.35  -2.94  -2.35  -2.94
1.      -0.40   -0.50  -1.00  -1.25  -1.00  -1.25  -1.70  -2.13  -1.70  -2.13
2       +0.52   +1.23  +0.51  +0.51  +0.35  +0.35  +2.26  +2.26  +1.56  +1.56
3         -        -    +0.56  +0.56  +0.39  +0.39  +2.16  +2.16  +1.49  +1.49
4         -        -    +0.63  +0.63  +0.43  +0.43  +2.07  +2.07  +1.43  +1.43
5         -        -    +0.69  +0.69  +0.48  +0.48  +1.98  +1.98  +1.36  +1.36
6         -        -    +0.77  +0.77  +0.53  +0.53  +1.90  +1.90  +1.31  +1.31
7         -        -    +0.85  +0.85  +0.59  +0.59  +1.82  +1.82  +1.25  +1.25
8         -        -    +0.94  +0.94  +0.65  +0.65  +1.74  +1.74  +1.20  +1.20
9         -        -    +1.05  +1.05  +0.72  +0.72  +1.67  +1.67  +1.15  +1.15
10         -        -    +1.16  +1.16  +0.80  +0.80  +1.60  +1.60  +1.10  +1.10
11         -        -    +1.28  +1.28  +0.88  +0.88  +1.53  +1.53  +1.05  +1.05
ERR(%)       -       -       21     16      13     9       40       32     27      20
a/   Improvements at-grade vs. do-nothing.   Since first year benefits are so high,
further benefits and ERR not calcu]ated.
b/   Underpass vs. at-grade improvements.  Benefits in year 3 onwards not calculated
(see preceding footnote).
c/   Underpass plus overpass vs. underpass alone.  Since volume/delay model for this
design appeared to give unrealistic delays  (on the low side),  a model  for a
simpler overpass was used, thus underestimating benefits.
dI   As in (c) with a cost increase of 25%.
e/   As in (c) with a "low" value of travel time.
f/   As in (e) with a cost increase of 25%.
~/   Underpass plus overpass vs. do-nothing ("the" ERR).
h/   As in (g) with a cost increase of 25%.
i/   As in (g) with a "low" value of travel time.
ij/  As in (i) with a cost increase of 25%.



-95-
Annex 9
Table 4
Table 4; THIRD CIRCLE
NET BENEFIT FLOWS (JD'000,000) AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (ERR)
Year                   a/              b/            c/              d/
0           ;     -0.350           -0.440         -0.350          -0.440
1                 +0.472           +0.472         +0.325          +0.325
2                 +0.469           +0.469         +0.323          +0.323
3                 +0.464           +0.464         +0.320          +0.320
4                 +0.459           +0.459         +0.316          +0.316
5                 +0.454           +0.454         +0.313          +0.313
6                 +0.449           +0.449         +0.309          +0.309
7                 +0.444           +0.444         +0.306          +0.306
8                 +0.439           +0.439         +0.302          +0.302
9                 +0.434           +0.434         +0.299          +0.299
10                 +0.429    1      +0.429         +0.296          +0.296
ERR (%)                134             107             92            73
a/ At-grade improvements vs. do-nothing ("the" ERR).
b/ As in (a) with a cost increase of 25%.
c/ As in (a) with "low" value of travel time.
d/ As in (c) with a cost increase of 25%.



-96-
Annex 9
Table 5
Table 5; NASR INTERSECTION
NET BENEFIT FLOWS (JD'O00,000) AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (ERR)
Year                   a/               b/             c/ di
0                 -0.400           -0.500         -0.400          -0.500
1                 +1.076           +1.076         +1.741,         +0.741
2                 +1.134           +1.134         +0.781          +0.781
3                 +1.195           +1.195         +0.823          +0.823
4                 +1.260           +1.260         +0.868           +0.868
5                 +1.328           +1.328         +0.915          +0.915
6                 +1.400           +1.400         +0.965          +0.965
7                 +1.476           +1.476         +1.017          +1.017
8                 +1.556           +1.556         +1.072          +1.072
9                 +1.640           +1.640         +1.130          +1.130
10                 +1.724           +1.724         +1.188          +1.188
ERR (Z)                274              221            191              154
a/ At-grade improvements vs. do-nothing ("the" ERR).
b/ As in (a) with a cost increase of 25%.
c/ As in (a) with "low" value of travel time.
d/ As in (c) with a cost increase of 25%.



-97-
Annex 9
Page 13
Table 6: MISDAR STREET/MADABA ROAD CORRIDOR
NET BENEFIT FLOWS (JD'OOO)
AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (ERR)
Year       a/           b/            c/           d/          e/               ft
0       -168       -168          -210         -210           -168          -168
1       -276       -276          -345         -345           -276          -276
2       +573       +403          +573         +403           +286          +201
3       +529       +372          +529         +372           +264          +186
4       +497        +351         +497         +351           +248          +175
5       +477       +336          +477         +336           +238          +168
-6      +327        +230         +327         +230           +168          +115
ERR (Z)     87          61            70          48            41              24
Table 7; AL QUDS STREET CORRIDOR
NET BENEFIT FLOWS (JD'OOO)
Year       a/           b/            c/           d/          e/               f/
0       - 88       - 88          -110         -110           - 88         - 88
1       -105       -105          -131         -131          -105          -105
2       + 92       + 65          + 92         + 65          + 46          + 32
3       +131       + 93          +131         + 93          + 65          + 47
4       +195       +138          +195         +138           + 97         + 69
5       +307       +218          +307         +218           +154         +109
6       +521       +367          +521         +367           +260         +184
ERR(%)      61          46            51          38             33            33
mstm ~ ~ ~ ~ nmi                                            wmw
a/ Base value of time (JD 0.45/hour).
b/ Low value of time (JD 0.31/hour).
c/ Costs increase by 25%; base value of time.
d/ Costs increase by 25%; low value of time.
e/ Benefits decrease by 50%; base value of time.
f/ Benefits decrease by 50%; low value of time.



-98-
Table 8; BENEFITS AND COSTS OF WORKSHOP COMPONENT
(JD'OOO, January 1983 Prices)
With the Project                   Without the Project
Equipment                           Extra Cost
Year  Salaries   Spares   and Civil    Salaries    Spares   of Vehicle               Net
Works                              Replacement        Benefit/a
Fleet Expansion
0     318         111         90            318         111            -              -90
1     318         108          -            331         114           10               29
2     318         105          -            344         119           10               50
3     318         101          -            358         124           10               73
4     318          98          -            372         129           10               95
5     318          95b                      387         134           10              118
NPV at 10% = 171      NPV at 15% = 134        ERR = 54%
/a   Net Benefit   Costs without the project, less costs with the project.
/b   Saving per vehicle amounts to 25% compared with the without case, and there
are 5% fewer vehicles.  In year 5, therefore, cost = .75 * .95 * 134 = 95.
Values in intervening years are linear interpolations between year 0 and year 5.



-99-
Annex 10
Page I
JORDAN
AMMAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Aides-Memoire
-   Project Identification (October 1982)
-   Project Preparation (December 1982)
-   Project Appraisal (February 1983)
B.   Background Materials
1. Halcrow Fox and Associates with Jouzy and Partners
Amman Region Transportation Study (ARTS)
(a)   Reports
-     Transport Modelling Report, June 1980
-     Transport Strategy Report, August 1980
-     Travel Forecast Report, October 1980
-     Phase I Final Report, December 1980
-     Phase II Final Report, (Vol.I, Text and Tables,
Volume II, Figures), February 1981
(b)   Technical Memoranda (17 incl. addendum)
2. Japan International Cooperation Agency, Feasibility Study of Ring
Roads Construction Project in Irbid City, February 1982
3. National Transport Study (Road Safety in Jordan, draft dated January
21, 1983)
4. Urban Sector Review (Green Cover dated July 23, 1982)
5. Watson Hawksley-ERC in Association with Middle East Engineering
Services, Solid Waste Management and Disposal System for the Greater
Amman Region, Feasibility Study, January 1980
C.   Project Preparation
1.  Halcrow  Fox  and  Associates,  Amman  Urban  Transport  and  Municipal
Development Project;
-Corridor Improvements, Technical Report, (February 1983);
-Central area, Technical Report, (February 1983);
-Road Works and Road Maintenance, Final Report, (February 1983);
-Workshop and Equipment Maintenance, Final Report, (February 1983).
2.  Dar  El  Handasah,  Four  Major  Intersections   in  Amman,  Traffic
Engineering and Design Study
-Inception Report, March 1983
-Interim Report, April 1983
-Feasibility Report (scheduled for June, 1983)



-100-
Annex 10
Page 2
3. Municipality of Amman
-Entrances Improvement (Low income areas access roads), Sketch
Design, April 1983;
-Staircases Improvements, Sketch Design, April 1983.
D.   Project Appraisal
1.  Economic  Evaluation  of  Misdar  Street/Madaba  Road  and  Al  Quds
(Jerusalem) Street Corridors, (Worksheets).
2. Economic Analysis of Major Intersections (Worksheets).
3. Mounir Neamatalla, Report on Solid Waste Component (February 1983).
4. Solid Waste Charges (F. Mitchell memo to files, May 6, 1983).
5. Local Procurement Practices in Jordan (D.Cook, memo to files February
17, 1983).



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I



A fbd~~~~~~~~A
G  o V  I R N              i               R A                                                        D                    70E
.2 ~        ~       -           ,.2   _~ -                                                                                                                  11',       ;      
-/                                            "    I\                                                               <_                    
S   /                            ;  - Y}   2         o                                                                              NK            \~~~~~~~~/ ~ '
bA:AA CAMF             7
--1(                              B       V" t4.2 982)
SAL      <9{.           '                 \        ,    {_gq                                                       ,        .      \   .
, 32,866
i'j  '  (5525       g     2'U1,4 42   \   .// 49,622)\
I-                      <                                ' k b4                             v 
EALGA~~~~(55
GOVERNORATE                                                                                                     /~~~OVRNOAT
/ar    /WAISR;  ) 
NJ                                   NAOUR        /|1,908)
BAL QAABA
GOaVERNORATEwl                                                              -Ii                                      \,i
CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Q  _- Al- [--C                                                          |
X   MADABA  /                                          t Int~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,oe,onoono/ AloporA  jI                    'SIN PEpEuLC   / 
__                 _    'nn_ ____                                                                                a =  _ Ji                                                    ^LD  _  I2
j ______________                                                                      B-A,J   O    R     D    A    N                         ' __    _
AMMAIN URBAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF NEW SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES                                                                  I
iLTII UN    - E    1-    B[ I                    AT            .   T  A ... ...                                                                        .
D|_                  CE pC-,EA <STANCD ROOME   ApTEAA S T             ENEII .P CEAVOS  A,AEOCI NE. &.SCAO -E-  -A ,0 NA FP                                                                 3C'- =3
-i              RF~~~OEC T2 AESPOSA.L 'ITT              -i -~ P ''BO  CEATER OF COCA',                _*- ETRBU,.T CNR COJ -   A TENCO  [N                  /     =  G;V oas on
______A    CATH-E                                                -AT AR C                                     ____                               ", 1j






______________________________________________________________________________________________                               _ IBRD   17087
JORDAN
AMMAN URBAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    J R O II -I                                                                                                        OZ
M2r. v80MW'F I. 00' 1R L 
0,   .L 000.8 0153 10C. . Mr  .             5<30..8   ,        8r 
MJ181 flLorso 80., 3805  ,        1        ,        '       8S8
-.   .   ,'   ,.     . ' , . ' ' 5 8 0          ',                ....  
:' 8                                  ==                       .:                                                                          . 4E3- 
r815.~'                                  -85 .,858 S.-  
s~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r                                                                                                 12 J           2.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43 ,OA  8853I
8' ,.                                                                                                                                                                                 K r e-
88                  r,8,8  ,awr 88 88  ',888288888888~  88888eA
a- .4 \ - o1 53- ? v 88.8, .88.8'                                                                                                                                                                                             8888  88 a
3,~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 8.  -S t A  LL508tDA 






IBRD  17088
JORDAN
*  A                                                                       A.*AAA.~~~~~~~~~V4  I IIflfA kI   'rn AK ICOf%DT
                                                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI-V1IVA 1M4  UNKDMAIN   I 1f  14INjr gr, I
0 t > v. /- Z -                  1                                              /                       0 -  A  *dtX                               MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION  OF STAIRCASE IMPROVEMENTS
( ~~~~~~~~ ~~CENTRAL AMMAN
XffS                                                                                                         =I 300 600 900
k                                                 A                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
Staircase  Improvements
the eadurs and 1s excluslvely tor the e   use    The World Bank ,nNational Capitol
A                                                      r       e do    a         n      ou      s    o     m o- International Boundaries
L_ AANL 1983
A                                        A/                                                                                                                                                                  SYRIAN ARAB           Z\1IRA
I                             ~~~~~~~~~~REPL.5L C 
4, ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        I-
j. -FI ~ ~ ~ ~    ~           ~          ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~7                
RA             ~~~~I RAE[                       SAJDI ARABIA
N /JORDAN
Tho nap h.,n beco ornoar-o b The Vartd sank o ,a , otos,oop ta the 0 ono of\ )J
toe red-r and I -,u-eiy tar the ntorna -s ot The World Bank and th. e-b-aoaAoa  AR3  )                                       3 4
to.on   C .roraho  Tha d- ooatano  rend and th, booda-e show  on to map do~ rt    REP O,5LMtR                           S
-mply   tOepos of Tne orldt Bank andthe tter-an-lheiaooe Ca-l-ora o, ay ;odg-re  EGYP  M.                  vISA   n    O
ontho wool ttoof arry t    -rtrlray e-oroe-et or ao-npto-m  of soot hoobfaie       __d.-h
APRIL 1983






