Document of
The World Bank                            FILE LC
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3594-J0
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLIOl
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
May 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982          December 1982
Currency Unit                     Jordan dinar (JD)            JD
US $1.00             =               JD 0.35                   0.35
JD 1.000             =               US$2.82                   2.84
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD1=US$2.81
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AM                =        Amman Municipality
AWSA              =        Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
CVDB              =        Cities and Villages Development Bank
ED                         Engineering Department of AM
JEA               =        Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO             =        Jordan Electric Power Company
MED               =        Mechanical and Electrical Department of AM
MMRA              =        Ministry of Municipalities and Rural
Affairs and The Environment
PCTU              =        Project Coordination and Training Unit
PTC               =        Public Transport Corporation
SWMD             =         Solid Waste Management Department of AM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN AMMAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiary:                Amman Municipality (AM)
Amount:                     US$30.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:            Same terms as the proposed loan.  The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:              The project would strengthen the long-term
planning, investment programming and management
functions of the Amman Municipality (AM). It would
also upgrade transport infrastructure and traffic
conditions on major arteries, in the central
business district and low-income residential areas
of Amman. It would include: (i) a transport and
traffic component including equipment and civil
works to improve four major intersections, the
central business district, five major radial
corridors, and roads, staircases, and junctions, as
well as feasibility and design studies for future
arterial roads; (ii) institutional measures,
equipment and civil works to strengthen the
technical departments of the Municipality; (iii)
institutional measures, equipment and civil works
to improve solid waste collection and disposal; and
(iv) development planning and training. The main
beneficiaries would be pedestrians, private and
public vehicle owners, operators and passengers who
would use the upgraded facilities. The ability of
AM to employ key specialized staff is crucial for
project implementation; due to noncompetitive
salary scales this could represent a risk. To
offset this risk the project provides for technical
assistance in early years of project implementation
as well as for engagement of Jordanian staff on a
contractual basis with competitive remuneration.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
_________  Million-------
Major Intersection Improvements                  9.7        11.4       21.1
Traffic Management and Engineering               4.3         6.1      10.4
Design of Future Networks                        1.6         1.3       2.9
Upgrading Technical Departments                  2.4         3.1        5.5
Solid Waste Management                           1.8         5.1       6.9
Amman Development Planning                       0.6         0.9        1.5
Project Coordination and
Training Unit                                   0.7         0.2       0.9
Base Cost                                           21.1        28.1       49.2
- Physical Contingencies                         2.7         3.4       6.1
- Price Contingencies                            4.9         5.4       10.3
Total Project Cost 1/                               28.7        36.9       65.6
Financing Plan:
Municipality of Amman                            3.5         0.2        3.7
Government of Jordan Grant                      25.2         6.7      31.9
World Bank Loan                                   -         30.0       30.0
28.7       36.9       65.6
Estimated Disbursements;        Bank FY   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
…______________________  Million…---…--------
Annual                          0.9    6.6    7.8    8.7    4.5    1.5
Cumulative                      0.9    7.5   15.3   24.0   28.5   30.0
Rate of Return: 63 percent 2/
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4413-JO, dated May 17, 1983.
1/ Does not include direct taxes and custom duties from which this project is
exempt; includes about $4.7 million indirect taxes.
2/ For the intersections, traffic and transport improvements and workshop
representing 61 percent of project cost. Benefits from other components
are not quantifiable.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN AMMAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of US$30.0 million equivalent to
help finance a Transport and Municipal Development Project in Amman. The loan
would be for a 17-year period, including 4 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate. The balance of the financing would be provided by the
Government of Jordan and Amman Municipality.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan"
(No. 3135-JO, dated December 24, 1980) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in January 1981. An economic mission visited the country in October
1981; its findings have been included in the present text. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.4 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy. It
has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in diversifying
commodity production, increasing investment, and promoting exports. This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade with
neighboring countries and expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians
working abroad, foreign aid and capital. As a result, employment is high and
foreign exchange reserves have been steadily rising.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71 created a
climate conducive to sustained economic growth during 1975-81, resulting in an
average annual growth of GDP of about 11 percent in real terms. This growth
was in sharp contrast with that during 1971-75, which was slightly negative.
In 1981, GNP per capita reached $1,623. The upsurge of the economy was due
to: (a) the rapid growth of the mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the
sharp increase in construction, particularly in housing and large public
works; and (c) favorable external factors, including an influx of Lebanese
business activity and booming conditions in the Gulf countries. In
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Fifth Education Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 25, 1983.



- 2 -
agriculture, rainfed production was sharply reduced by a severe drought during
the 1976-79 period and more recently in 1981, but vegetable and fruit
production in the irrigated areas increased significantly.
5.       The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a chronic
deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor services
increased by 32 percent annually at current prices from 1975 to 1981. This
growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and vegetables in
neighboring countries, booming exports of manufactured goods and a sharp
increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor services. Jordanian
goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle East markets because of
the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral agreements, the relatively
good quality of the products, enterprising marketing and the favorable
geographical location. Although the growth in the volume of imports was
slower than that of exports, the resource gap increased in current terms from
$560 million in 1975 to about $2,318 million in 1981. These trade deficits,
however, were fully compensated by factor income and transfers from abroad.
As a result, Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained within
reasonable limits and borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest
level (para. 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased at
a rate of about 23 percent per annum through 1976-81. The overall budget
deficit, was tempered by a sharp increase in grants from Arab countries
following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign assistance.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved markedly, but
public savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of
defense expenditures, largely financed by foreign grants. To promote domestic
savings, greater discretion is being allowed the Central Bank in adjusting
interest rates and banking commissions. Increases in deposit rates were
effected and have resulted in savings deposits increasing faster than money
supply. Between 1975 and 1981, domestic inflation, measured by the cost of
living index, increased by an annual average rate of 11.6 percent.
8.       A diversified banking system capable of meeting the financial
requirements of fast economic growth was developed during the last decade.
The banking system now includes 16 commercial banks and 6 specialized credit
and investment institutions. The Amman Stock Exchange, established in 1978,
has become an active institution, and the Securities Corporation, created with
IFC assistance, is growing in strength. The liberal transfer policy recently
followed by the Central Bank has encouraged growth of the financial system,
and Amman has started to emerge as an international financial center.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.       The current Plan (1981-85) aims at maintaining the rate of growth of
the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In terms of the
investment program, the plan is ambitious--total investment would be



- 3 -
maintained at 33-35 percent of GNP, 53 percent of which is by the Government.
The announced strategy is to pursue the objectives of the last decade of
economic planning in Jordan, namely to: (a) reduce the heavy dependence on
external assistance; (b) diversify the economy by increasing commodity
production; (c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the distribution of
the benefits of growth.
10.      Medium-term economic projections indicate that rapid GDP growth,
about 10 percent annually, can be maintained during the current Plan period.
Because of an expected slowdown in factor income from abroad, GNP is projected
to grow at a slightly lower rate of 8.5 percent per year. However, full
implementation of the Plan's investment program is a key assumption underlying
4      these growth rates.  Industrial growth will benefit from the completion of a
number of major projects such as potash and fertilizer, now at initial stages
of production and would maintain an overall average annual growth rate of
about 17 percent, peaking in 1983 and 1984. Barring serious disruptions in
agricultural output through unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would
realize a significant increase in the share of commodity producing sectors in
total domestic output and thus correspondingly reduce its traditional
dependence on the services sector.
11.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports are promising.  The
completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects, together with the
enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in significant
increases in foreign exchange earnings after 1982. In agriculture, the
expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports will, however, be more than
offset by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit would
probably increase. Even though total exports are projected to maintain a high
rate of increase (19 percent p.a. at constant prices) while imports would grow
at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could continue to increase
and could exceed the two billion dollar mark by 1985. In relation to GNP,
however, the resource gap is expected to show a significant further decline
(from 46% to 40%). Unlike the recent experience, net workers' remittances and
foreign grants may not be sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit.
Jordan therefore would have to rely more on external borrowing (para. 16).
12.      Savings from private sources, particularly from workers abroad,
should continue to increase, helped by the expanding banking network. A
further reduction of the budget deficit can also be expected. Through cuts
mainly in fuel subsidies the Government is likely to attain almost 90 percent
coverage of current budget expenditures by domestic revenues in 1983.
However, the demands for increased social expenditure and the need to raise
4      wages to retain valuable public servants will make further cuts increasingly
difficult.
Social Issues
13.      Due to the continuing migration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the present labor market situation
has been characterized by selective manpower shortages. However, according to
the Bank's manpower projections the demand and supply for labor in Jordan
might become more balanced throughout this decade with even a possibility of



- 4 -
an emerging surplus of certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1980,
out of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the
West Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be
workers, compared to a total domestic employment of about 440,000. Domestic
employment includes a rapidly growing number of foreign workers currently
estimated at about 80,000, about half of whom are unskilled. The country has
expanded its education and training system rapidly but still needs a
comprehensive manpower and training plan to help ensure that: (a) the economy
does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills, while meeting prospective
demand for skilled workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the potential
labor force is utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle workers in
rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing fast, is still
low.
14.      Social issues are now an acknowledged concern of the Government and
this new emphasis is to some extent reflected in the current Five-Year Plan
(1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a relatively favorable
reading in most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across
income groups and across provinces. Thus, while health infrastructure is
adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (61 years), medical doctors
are concentrated in urban centers. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups. The Government's concern about these issues has led to
the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in November 1979 to
define a coherent social development program.
External Assistance
15.      Due to large foreign inflows of remittances and transfers, the
current account of the balance of payments was on average in equilibrium
through 1975-81, and the government-guaranteed external debt has remained well
within manageable limits. Net workers' remittances increased from about
$160 million in 1975 to about $880 million in 1981. Following the Baghdad
Arab Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged assistance of about
$1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign aid rose from about
$400-500 million in 1977-78 to a record high of about $1.0 billion in 1979 and
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981. The external public debt outstanding and
disbursed reached $1.4 billion at the end of 1981; the outstanding debt to IDA
was $78 million, and to IBRD, $45 million, ($85 million, and $90 million,
respectively, when including undisbursed commitments). External debt service
payments amounted to $182 million in 1981 or 5.7 percent of total exports of
goods and services.
16.      Jordan's impressive stability, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large foreign
assistance. The continuation of foreign economic assistance at the relatively
high levels of recent years obviously depends on international and regional
developments. Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the grant
component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the next few
years. The projections indicate a need for external commitments close to
$4.5 billion each year over the 1981-85 period. About one-third of this
borrowing is expected to be on concessional terms, significantly below the



-5 -
ratios achieved in recent years. While bilateral and multilateral sources can
be expected to provide the bulk of external resources, Jordan is likely to
resort increasingly to the financial markets, and this would result in a
hardening of loan terms. On these assumptions, the debt service ratio as a
percentage of exports of goods and services is projected not to exceed 10
percent by 1985. Beyond the current Plan period, sustaining the rise in debt
and debt service at a prudent rate would require a slowdown in both the rate
of investment and growth, particularly if foreign grants are gradually phased
out. Given its record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
17.      Jordan has received ten Bank loans totalling $220.8 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which
fourteen credits have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have consistently amounted to about 75 - 80 percent of appraisal
estimates. The IDA credits have financed projects in key sectors, such as
education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and
tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic development
where it could be considered creditworthy for Bank lending and had reached a
GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus
discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments in Jordan with total
commitments of $94.2 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      Bank group assistance to Jordan has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and emphasized
in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85).
19.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding phosphate rock
mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and for water
supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in FY1975 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition,
further support for the Government's social and economic objectives was
provided in recent years by loans for the Fourth and Fifth Education projects
approved in December 1981 and March 1983, the Cities and Villages Development
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Fifth Education Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 25, 1983.



- 6 -
Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, the Urban Development project
approved in July 1980, the Fifth Power project approved in May 1982, and the
Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage project approved in December 1982.
20.      The Government has requested intensified assistance from the Bank to
achieve the Plan objectives with respect to vocational and technical training
in order to meet the manpower needs of the economy, and provide secondary
education in less developed regions. To continue to assist in this important
sector, a sixth education project is under preparation for consideration in
the next fiscal year. Projects under preparation include energy, industry,
transport, and water supply/sewerage.
21.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels, the
Bank assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy and urban sectors, regional development issues, as well as
the export strategy and export promotion in manufacturing industries. The
report entitled Energy Sector Study (No. 4012-JO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983. The other reports pertaining to these
reviews are under preparation.
22.      At the end of 1980, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent. By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 10 percent and 7 percent respectively.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
23.      Following three decades of high population growth and increases due
to migration, over two-thirds of Jordan's population is now settled in urban
areas. Most of this urban population lives within 30 kilometers of the
capital, Amman. This area produces most of the services, and manufacturing
industry output. While the Government is taking active measures to stimulate
growth in the other regions, the Amman region is expected to attract most
urban growth for the remainder of this century and would continue to be the
main engine for the economic development of Jordan. Past rapid growth has
frequently outpaced the availability of public services and infrastructure.
Responding to this pressure, the Government has expanded both.  The Government
will need to make further large investments in Amman and nearby urban centers
to meet the basic needs of larger urban populations and to ensure that these
productive urban centers function efficiently.  Municipalities are generally
weak however; with uncertain finances and lack of qualified staff, they are
unable to prepare and implement medium-term investment programs to meet the
requirements of rapidly increasing urban population. Problems are tackled too
late, often implying lack of time to identify least cost solutions. For the
same reasons, the needs of the urban poor are not reviewed systematically.
The Bank's urban sector and regional development reviews (para. 21), have
identified the institutional strengthening of local governments, in particular
their planning capabilities, as a high priority task. The proposed project
would contribute to this objective in Amman.



-7-
Amman Municipality
24.      The Amman Municipality (AM) contains almost one-third of the national
population (or about 750,000 people) and it is expected to have a population
of 1.5 million by the year 2000. It is by far the most important local
government in Jordan. The primacy of Amman is reflected in its political
status whereby the Lord Mayor has a ministerial position. The budget of AM is
approved by the Prime Minister whereas the budgets of other municipalities are
approved by the Minister of Municipalities and Rural Affairs (MMRA). In 1982,
the Municipality's ordinary (tax) revenues amounted to about $32 million and
its expenditure to $41 million. The difference was met by Government grants
and loan proceeds. AM faces many of the same planning, administrative and
budgetary problems as other local governments. Under the late Lord Mayor a
major effort was made to upgrade municipal operations. New staff was
recruited and responsibility was delegated to them, citizens were encouraged
to participate in formulating programs, and municipal problems were actively
tackled. The new Lord Mayor, who was appointed in mid-February 1983, is
expected to reinforce the momentum established by his predecessor. The
municipality employs around 2,500 people in 14 departments. The Engineering
Department (ED), the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) and the
Studies Department would play particularly important roles in the
implementation of the proposed project. The ED employs about 640 people,
about 70 of whom are in the Traffic Engineering Section. Its present staff
and structure are inadequate to meet the rapidly increasing demands of the
city road network. The MED is responsible for maintenance and repair of
municipal equipment and has a central role in efficient functioning of all
technical departments. MED is adequately staffed. While recent years have
seen significant improvements in operations, further measures are needed to
increase efficiency. The Studies Department expanded substantially in recent
years, but still lacks qualified personnel with economic, financial management
and engineering backgrounds to deal with economic and organizational aspects
of planning. The proposed project would address these weaknesses.
25.      Water supply and sewerage services are provided by the Amman Water
and Sewerage Authority (AWSA) of which the Lord Mayor is the Chairman of the
Board. Almost all households in Amman City are connected to the water supply
system and about 40 percent are connected to a modern sewerage system.
Availability of water is insufficient and the Government is implementing a
project to transfer water from the Jordan Valley to the Amman region. The
sewerage system needs urgent expansion both in collection and treatment
facilities. A plan has been prepared to increase connections from 40 to about
80 percent of households by 1990 and the rest by 2000. Electricity is
t      generated by Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) and distributed by Jordan
Electric Power Company (JEPCO) which supplies the entire Amman population.
The principal services under the city's control are town planning and building
control, solid waste management, and road traffic engineering and
maintenance. The city also has responsibilities for health inspections,
rodent and insect control, and a variety of licensing functions.
Transport and Traffic.
26.      Efficient development of transport will have a major impact on
Amman's economic functions as well as upon the welfare of city residents. New



- 8 -
road links will be required over the next decade. However, the Government's
traditional strategy for dealing with the transport system, consisting largely
of accommodating rapid increases in private automobiles through expansions of
highways, is reaching its limits. The use of the existing network could be
improved considerably by eliminating major bottlenecks and through better
traffic management. To deal with future choices of road investments as well
as policy issues AM will need to acquire personnel with relevant skills and
engage in systematic planning activities. The vehicle fleet has more than
doubled in the second half of the 1970s reaching about 80,000 vehicles in
1980. It is likely that this number will double again by the end of this
decade. Nearly half of the transport needs are met by private cars, a quarter
by service (shared) taxis and the rest by regular taxis, public buses and
school and company buses. Taking taxis together with public buses, public
transport provides a high quality of service compared with most developing
countries. On the other hand, this system is frustrated in the busy centers
of Amman due to prolonged traffic jams at a few major intersections, and in
the central business district. Also, the overall traffic safety record is not
good and traffic deaths per registered vehicle are among the highest in the
Middle East. The main fuel used for private transport is gasoline which
carries a 100 percent tax. Diesel-oil can be used only by commercial vehicles
and is sold with a 30 percent subsidy which is being withdrawn gradually.
Road Network and Maintenance
27.      The arterial highway network in Amman is largely radial, since the
city developed along a fan of deep valleys (wadis) and the intervening ridges
(jebels). Two incomplete ring roads are emerging in the north of the area
following the recent thrust of urbanization. Altogether there are very few
arterial roads in Amman. This results in high traffic volumes throughout the
day on all the major routes. Traffic has grown to a level at which frequent
blockages at some strategic intersections are resulting in long queues that
spread over the surrounding road network. Thus, expected benefits from
previous major investments in arterial roads are being lost.
28.      The low-income settlements located near the centre of Amman are on
steep hillsides or on high ground. They are inadequately served with roads
and public transport. Many of these areas rely on stone or concrete
staircases (average length of 130 meters and vertical rise of 40 meters) for
access to and from the centre. The staircases are generally in need of urgent
rehabilitation.
29.      AM is responsible for maintaining approximately 600 kilometers of
surfaced road.  There is no adequate inventory of road geometry and conditions
which, together with information on vehicle usage and climate, could provide
the basis for a rational maintenance program. The engineering and quality
control both in the construction and in the maintenance of roads, sidewalks
and other infrastructure is inadequate. The management and cost accounting
systems for force account work is poor and costs are high. The current
municipal practice of handling road maintenance largely by resurfacing
existing streets is proving to be increasingly expensive. Poor road
conditions (and lack of signs and traffic engineering) prevent roads from



- 9 -
being utilized to capacity. There is a need for better long-term planning and
plan implementation. The project would strengthen the planning,
implementation, and maintenance capabilities of AM.
Solid Waste
30.      Approximately 750 tons of solid waste are generated daily in the
Greater Amman urban region, eighty percent of which is produced by the
Municipality of Amman and its major neighboring municipalities of Zarqa and
Ruseifa. In Amman, solid waste collection and street cleaning activities are
carried out by nine city districts. Waste disposal functions will be
transferred from the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) to the
4        proposed Solid Waste Management Department (SWMD).  The main problems facing
AM are the inadequacy of the sanitation vehicle fleet, as well as below cost
solid waste collection charges and widespread delinquency. A major regional
problem is the risk of ground and surface water pollution from current waste
disposal practices by Amman and neighboring municipalities. This is a serious
issue as the region is short of water resources. With the assistance of
competent Government departments, landfill sites in suitable locations have
been identified. Development of these sites would eliminate the
aforementioned risks.
Bank Group Role in Urban Development
31.      Bank Group assistance has been responsive to the problems created by
rapid urbanization. The Bank Group-financed water supply and power projects
have addressed needs in Amman as well as in other urban centers. A loan
(1980) to the Cities and Villages Development Bank has supported development
in municipalities and villages. In the early stages of Amman's growth, the
Bank Group directed its assistance to developing the water supply and sewerage
systems. It has been instrumental in the creation and strengthening of AWSA,
which now manages an increasingly complex system. Further assistance to AWSA
is under consideration. With respect to electricity supply, JEPCO and JEA
benefited from Bank Group assistance in building up power generation capacity
and the distribution network in the area. Emerging needs in the distribution
of electricity are currently being reviewed. In the urban transport field,
the Bank Group has financed the construction of a motorway between the
country's two main cities, Amman and Zarqa (1971). Subsequent major road
works (including the "penetrator" into the center of Amman), designed partly
by consultants provided under the 1971 credit, have been financed by domestic
resources and the Arab Fund.
32.      With the very rapid increase in the Amman region's population, lack
of low-cost housing and proliferation of slums have emerged as pressing
problems. A Bank-financed Urban Development Project (1980) is addressing
these issues through sites and services, and upgrading schemes. Project
implementation has been efficient, and significant institutional and policy
improvements have been realized. Delays in the implementation of the sites
and services component have now ended, following an agreement to raise the
previously established design standards. The project is expected to achieve
its main goals of upgrading low-income settlements and providing affordable



- 10 -
housing to many lower income groups without subsidy. The needs of the lowest
income groups, and the means for satisfying them, will be further examined in
light of project results.
33.      The proposed project would build upon the Bank's previous efforts.
It would bring relief to deteriorating urban transport conditions and
establish the basis for improved planning and management of transport and
other municipal functions. It also would improve current solid waste disposal
practices and eliminate the public health risks associated with them.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
34.      The proposed project was identified in October 1982 and prepared by
the Government thereafter with Bank assistance. It was appraised in
January/February 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during
May 2 to 6, 1983. The Jordanian delegation was led by Mr. Asa'ad Abu Ziad,
Technical Assistant to the Lord Mayor of Amman. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Amman Transport and Municipal Development Project" (No. 4413-JO)
dated May 17, 1983, is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the loan and project are given in the Loan
and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report and in Annex III. Maps
showing the project sites are attached.
Project Objectives
35.      The main project objectives are to carry out overdue investments in
transport and solid waste management, to strengthen Amman Municipality's
ability to plan and manage transport and solid waste services, and to
formulate municipal development plans and investment programs. The project
would contribute to the institutional development of the Municipality and its
key operating departments through training and technical assistance.
Project Description
36.      The project would include;  (i) a transport and traffic component
consisting of improvements to four major intersections, the central business
district, five major radial corridors, and roads, staircases and junctions in
other areas, as well as feasibility and design studies for future arterial
roads; (ii) assistance for strengthening the technical departments of Amman
Municipality; (iii) assistance for improving solid waste collection and
disposal; and (iv) development planning and training.
Transport and Traffic Components
37.      The project includes improvements to four intersections (see map) of
arterial roads which are operating at the limit of their existing capacity and
where substantial improvements are needed to overcome critical traffic
conditions experienced over 10 to 14 hours, for six days a week. These are:
(i) Nasser Circle, a roundabout serving five roads, where an underpass and



- 11 
flyover would be constructed with a ground level roundabout to handle most
turning movements; (ii) Sports City, a channelized signal controlled junction
between two roads, where an underpass, an overpass and facilities to improve
turning movements would be implemented; (iii) Nasr Interchange, a complete
junction serving three major roads, where significant at-grade improvements
(including traffic signals and channelization) would be constructed; and
(iv) Third Circle, a roundabout serving five roads, three of which are
arterials, where at-grade improvements would be implemented. In addition, AM
would implement traffic improvement measures such as recommissioning and
erecting traffic signals, rehabilitating carriageway and sidewalks,
channelizing intersections, rerouting service taxis and buses, and relocating
taxi and bus terminals. Such measures will be implemented in the central
business district, on nineteen kilometers of major radial routes as well as on
access roads to three low-income areas with 90,000 residents. Five junctions
with high accident records would be improved to ensure better traffic safety.
In addition, around 5 km of staircases used by low-income residents as the
principal means of access to their areas of residence (on steep hills) would
be rehabilitated and improved to eliminate current hazardous conditions.
Government approval of traffic improvement measures for the central business
district would be a condition of disbursement for civil works pertaining to
these improvements (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4b).
38.      The municipality would strengthen the capacity of the Design Section
of its Studies Department to carry out existing work, and to design
improvements to additional corridors. AM would increase the Section's regular
staff and secure the services of a Traffic Engineering Advisor and Traffic
Signals Specialist. In addition, AM would provide specialized training
courses for traffic engineering staff. The benefit of traffic investments
would not be fully reaped without proper enforcement of the traffic laws and
regulations. The effectiveness of Amman traffic officers would be increased
through specialized training to be provided by the Government. To ensure that
the urban transport infrastructure is developed in a rational manner, the
project would include the preparation of a medium-term highway investment
program and feasibility and engineering studies for roads.
Technical Departments of Amnan Municipality
39.      Key technical departments of AM are the Mechanical and Electrical
Department (MED), the Engineering Department (ED), and the Studies Department
(para. 24). These departments would have an active role in project
implementation and planning of future activities. The project would address
weaknesses in the technical departments through organizational streamlining,
training, technical assistance, and investments in civil works and equipment.
Reliable information on costs of different operations is essential in
monitoring performance and seeking productivity increases. The Municipality
would establish, by January 1, 1986, a system of cost accounting in the ED,
MED, Studies Department and in the new SWMD (Project Agreement,
Section 2.06a). The project would provide 24 man-months of local consulting
services to assist the AM in introducing an improved accounting system in the
context of the planned computerization of municipal accounts. It would also
provide for the strengthening of ED through engaging, on contract terms, 10



- 12 -
senior qualified engineers; carrying out a study on road inventory, pavement
evaluation, and quality control; purchasing equipment to assist with road
maintenance, design and quality control of pavements and remodeling the
Department's Laboratory. The project would include the 1985 slice of the
regular road rehabilitation program which would be prepared by the
strengthened ED.
40.      To further improve the efficiency of this department, the
municipality has allocated to ED the responsibility for all activities
directly related to construction, and maintenance of roads, footways, and
retaining walls and it has allocated to other departments responsibilities for
activities not related to these facilities.  To enable the Municipality's
limited management and technical staff to concentrate on planning and
management tasks, while making full use of private sector capacities to
organize execution of works, AM has agreed to restrict its force account work
to no more than 30 percent of the total (Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
41.      The municipal workshop would also be strengthened through adoption of
policies: to ensure better control by user departments over equipment
operators; to increase efficiency of vehicle and equipment use; to develop and
implement fleet replacement and spare parts policies; and to increase
productivity of the department. Measures to this end would consist of
provision of workshop equipment such as testing and calibration equipment, and
civil works pertaining to workshop buildings.
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
42.      This component would enhance the capabilities of the Municipality of
Amman to meet its refuse collection/disposal responsibilities through:  (i)
purchase of collection equipment; (ii) provision of civil works and equipment
for sanitary landfills at four strategically located sites selected for their
favorable hydro-geological and environmental characteristics and termination
of eight unsuitable sites; (iii) preparation of guidelines for the management
and operation of sanitary landfills in the Greater Amman Urban Region by
December 31, 1983, for review by the Bank and subsequent implementation
(Project Agreement, Section 2.06b); and (iv) building of institutional
capabilities to plan and implement improved waste management practices and
procedures through the establishment of SWMD by December 31, 1983, and its
appropriate staffing by mid-1984 (Project Agreement, Section 2.02a,c). In
implementing this component AM would prepare a plan and program for improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of waste collection for review by the Bank by
December 31, 1984, and subsequent implementation (Project Agreement, Section
2.04).  Government and AM would establish effective bill collection procedures
(by end 1984) as well as adequate solid waste collection charges (by end 1985)
to ensure recovery of operating, maintenance and investment cost. The
Government would also ensure that neighboring municipalities which use the
sanitary landfills would pay to AM a fee which provides for cost recovery
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Development Planning and Municipal Finance
43.      The project would support AM's objective to strengthen its planning
and programming functions through better staffing, training and technical



- 13 -
assistance. Specific planning activities to be undertaken would include;
(i) the preparation (by end July 1984) of a 20-year strategy plan for Amman
which would identify appropriate policies regarding levels of service to be
provided and desirable directions of growth; (ii) the formulation (by end
1984) of a 6-year public investment program for the municipality area; (iii)
the updating of the Amman Region urban transportation model to provide
guidance on future transport investments and policy choices which would be
reflected in the strategy and investment program; and (iv) the introduction of
a system for undertaking economic and financial feasibility studies for all
*        major municipal projects.  Following their completion, AM would provide copies
of the strategy plan and the public investment program for Bank review and
discussion (Project Agreement, Section 2.04). As regards finances, in 1982,
about 77 percent of AM's current and investment expenditures were covered by
its ordinary revenues, about 20 percent by Government grants and the rest by
borrowing. Increasing investment expenditures, including the proposed
project, will necessitate an increase in the financial resources of the
Municipality. The revenues of AM should be increased through rationalizing
and updating the taxes, levies and fees such as those on land and buildings,
fuel, licenses, parking, and central market as well as through pricing public
services appropriately. A financial scenario indicating the means to
accomplish this objective is provided in Annex 2 of the Staff Appraisal
Report. According to this scenario, coverage of AM's total expenditures by
its revenues would be somewhat below current levels during 1983-1987, mainly
due to project expenditures. However, in 1988 the Municipality could cover
almost all of its expenditures from its own revenues. Achievement of this
objective would require that the Government permit significant increases in
AM's ordinary revenues, e.g. taxes and public service charges. In addition,
realizing these increases would require considerable efforts to strengthen
administration of the tax laws. With these issues in mind, the proposed
project has been designed to reinforce AM's staffing in financial
specializations and to initiate cost accounting and financial analysis
procedures. Thereafter, by end March, 1985 AM and Government would prepare a
multi-year financial plan for the municipality and a timetable for its
implementation in consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
This plan would include estimates of investment and operating costs, and
propose financing measures, including increases in taxes and service charges,
to cover expenditures. Technical assistance would be provided under the
project to assist AM in carrying out this task.
Training
44.      There is currently no systematic training in AM.  The project would
start addressing this issue through the appointment by end October 1983 of a
full-time training coordinator in the Project Coordination and Training Unit
(PCTU). This coordinator would assess training needs, coordinate selection of
candidates for overseas and local courses, and develop special courses and
seminars in collaboration with local institutions in such fields as traffic
engineering, road maintenance, road safety, and economic and financial
appraisal. Overseas training would be provided in traffic engineering and
planning. In addition, provision would be made in the project for technical
assistance of about six man-months to provide specialized training in Jordan.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
45.      The project would be managed by the Project Coordination and Training
Unit (PCTU). PCTU would be established and the Project Manager, the Project
Engineer, and other key staff would be appointed as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01c).
Responsibility for the implementation of project components would be with the
various departments as follows: ED and Studies Department would execute the
four major intersections and road maintenance works; ED, Studies Department
and Department of Public Safety would implement the traffic improvement
components; Studies Department would carry out the road network studies; ED
would carry out road maintenance; MED would implement the municipal workshop
component; SWMD would implement the solid waste component; Studies Department
would prepare the development plans; PCTU would be in charge of training and
technical assistance.
46.      Consultants (Dar El Handasah) began work on February 15, 1983 to
prepare feasibility studies and designs for the four major intersections. The
final designs are expected to be completed successively between September and
December 1983. Designs for the other components have been carried out by AM,
partly with the assistance of consultants Halcrow Fox and Associates, and
Jouzy and Partners. A significant amount of land needs to be acquired for the
Nasr intersection. The other intersections will require less land, mostly
belonging to the Government. Small parcels of land will be needed for the
traffic improvement works. The solid waste disposal sites would be developed
on Government land, which will be transferred to AM at cost. Land acquisition
procedures work smoothly in Jordan, and this is not expected to delay the
project. Initiation of land acquisition procedures for the Nasr site and
issuing of acquisition orders for all other sites required during the first
year of project implementation would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01b). The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1988.
Accounts and Audit
47.      The project accounts would be audited by the Public Auditing Office.
This department, which reports to the National Consultative Council
(Parliament), controls expenditures as they are made to ensure consistency
with basic regulations. It is responsible for auditing all the Government
departments. The auditing arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
48.      The total project cost is estimated at about $66 million (base cost
is calculated in mid-1983 prices) of which about $37 million (or about
60 percent of the total) would be in foreign exchange. The cost breakdown by
components is given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report. Cost estimates include $4.7 million indirect taxes which will not be
financed by the Bank. Goods purchased for Government use are exonerated from
direct taxes and customs duties. These taxes and duties are not included in
the cost estimates. Physical contingencies are estimated at about 12 percent
of the base cost and price contingencies at about 19 percent of the base cost



- 15 -
increased by physical contingencies. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to
increase 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6
percent thereafter. Local costs are estimated to increase 8 percent per annum
over the project implementation period. On the basis of recent experience,
the cost of consultant services is estimated at about $15,200 per man-month
for expatriates (220 man-months) and about $4,750 per man-month for local
recruits (400 man-months). These amounts include salary, fee, overhead,
international travel and subsistence. Overseas fellowship training
(150 man-months) is estimated to cost $4,100 per man-month, inclusive of
international travel.
49.      The proposed loan of $30 million would finance most of the foreign
exchange costs of civil works and of equipment.  It would cover about
45 percent of the total estimated project cost. The Government and AM would
finance all remaining costs. The proposed Bank loan would be made to the
Government who would on-lend it to AM under the same terms and conditions as
the proposed loan. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
onlending rate would be significantly positive in real terms as the current
domestic inflation rate is about 8 percent per annum. Signing of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and AM is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01a).
50.      With the exception of the solid waste component, the project would
provide public services and facilities which are properly a charge on the
public budget (rather than being directly recoverable from beneficiaries).
The financial arrangements have been designed, therefore, to reflect an
appropriate balance of responsibility between the central government and AM.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.      Civil works contracts aggregating to about $31 million would be
awarded under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). About eighteen smaller
contracts for other civil works, not exceeding $2 million per contract and
estimated to aggregate about $15 million, would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding. This is justified in view of the varied nature of
the works involved, the techniques and local knowledge required for their
implementation, and the small size of each contract, which is unlikely to
interest foreign bidders. Local competitive bidding procedures, which were
reviewed at appraisal and found to be satisfactory to the Bank, do allow
foreign contractors registered in Jordan to participate in tenders. Equipment
and vehicles, with an aggregate cost of about $8 million, would be grouped in
about 7 bidding packages and would be procured under ICB. Qualifying domestic
*       manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or
the equivalent of import duties, whichever is lower. Small items of equipment
with an aggregate cost of less than $100,000 would be purchased after
solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers.
52.      The proposed Bank loan, to be disbursed over 6 years in line with the
disbursement profile of Jordan, would cover 50 percent of total expenditures
for civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or ex-factory cost
respectively, on imported or locally manufactured equipment, and 70 percent of
total expenditures on imported equipment procured locally. The Loan closing
date would be June 30, 1989.



- 16 -
Benefits and Risks
53.      The project's main benefit would be the establishment of long and
medium term planning and better management of municipal services. The project
would also help the Municipality deal with urgent transport problems. Major
components of the project would benefit low-income residents through improved
pedestrian access to their residential areas, more efficient movement of
public transport modes of which they are the principal users, and better solid
waste services. The project's fundamental benefit, planning and better
management of municipal services and public facilities, is not quantifiable.
Similarly, the benefits from the solid waste component are not quantifiable.
Benefits on the intersections, traffic and transport improvements, and
workshop components have been quantified and the weighted ERR for these
components is 63 percent (these components account for 61 percent of project
base cost and physical contingencies).
54.      Following established methodologies, economic benefits of the major
intersections were estimated as the value of time saved from reduction of
vehicle delays at the major intersections. Vehicle operating cost and energy
savings were not estimated for lack of a reliable estimate of the cost of
idling. Delays were estimated for four different groups of hours in the day
("peak", "busy", and two others) based on amount of traffic for a 10-year
operating period on the basis of (a) actual traffic counts for 1983, (b) the
forecasts of travel for 1995 generated by a land use/transportation model, and
(c) a model which relates to delays to traffic volumes for different design
options. In the case of the Sports City and Nasser Circle Intersections, the
rates of return on successively more costly options were explored (at-grade
improvements, an underpass, and an underpass plus an overpass). In both
intersections, the highest cost option investigated yielded an ERR over its
best alternative in excess of the opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent.
Only an at-grade solution was considered for Third Circle, since
implementation of a more elaborate option should await the outcome of the
feasibility study on the Jabals Ring Road to be undertaken under the project.
At Nasr intersection, a proposal to construct a new ramp from the inner ring
road to the penetrator was discarded because of inadequate traffic flows on
that link; an at-grade solution provided substantial benefits. The ERRs thus
calculated are as follows: Sports City intersection 58 percent, Nasser Circle
40 percent, Third Circle 134 percent, Nasr intersection 274 percent. A 30
percent reduction in benefits together with a 25 percent cost increase would
reduce these returns to 35, 20, 73 and 154 percent respectively.
55.      The traffic and transport improvements in the Central Business
District would yield benefits to pedestrians, public transport operators, and                 9
general traffic. Partial benefits from the last two would yield an ERR of
about 30 percent over a 5-year horizon at existing traffic levels. Similar
corridor improvements on main arteries would yield ERR's in the range of about
60 to 90 percent using a five year project life. These high returns are due
largely to the high occupancy of public transport vehicles (particularly
service-taxis which on some links comprise more than half of all traffic) and
to high traffic volumes on these corridors for 10 to 14 hours each working
day. Benefits of the improvements to the staircases, access roads to
low-income areas, and five isolated junctions have not been quantified, and a



- 17 -
straightforward engineering approach, based on minimum service standards, was
used to evaluate them.
56.      The benefits of upgrading the design capacity of the Studies
Department and the road maintenance capacity of ED would consist of:
(i) reductions in future maintenance costs through better engineering of new
and rehabilitation works; (ii) improved quality control of materials,
improved supervision of contract works and execution of force account works,
and a more targetted maintenance program based on better information on road
conditions; and (iii) improvements in traffic movements and traffic safety
through better quality road surfaces. Assuming that such measures resulted in
an annual saving of only one half of one percent of the value of roads, less
than one-year payback on the cost of ED contract personnel and maintenance
studies would be achieved. The changes in management and maintenance of the
vehicle fleet associated with the MED component would yield efficiency gains
to all technical departments of AM. Only some gains have been quantified.
Cost savings from expected increases in workshop staff productivity,
reductions in use of spares, and from fleet reductions made possible by faster
maintenance turnaround would, over a period of 5 years, yield an ERR of
54 percent on the cost of equipment and civil works in upgrading the
workshop. If the savings were reduced by 50 percent, the ERR would fall to 23
percent.
57.      The main environmental impacts would derive from the solid waste
component. The landfill sites developed under the project would replace
several existing uncontrolled dumps which pollute surface and scarce
groundwater supplies, which are a breeding ground for vermin and insects, and
which in several cases constitute an aesthetic nuisance. By introducing an
environmentally sound disposal system, the project would not only remove a
source of pollution in the Amman region, but also establish a model which
could be replicated in other parts of the country.
58.      The fundamental project risk concerns the ability of AM to employ key
specialized staff, given its noncompetitive regular salary scales. The
strategies adopted in this project to alleviate this constraint are to make
extensive use of technical assistance in the early years and to employ staff
on contract. In line with civil service statutes, AM already uses staff on
contract to fill key positions which require competitive remuneration. It
will continue to engage Jordanian staff on contract to perform important
managerial functions under the project.  The success of the Municipality in
dealing with this problem will be carefully monitored. The physical
components of the project are expected to be implemented without problems.
Past experience indicates, however, that the institution building process may
require a longer time. The commitment of AM to upgrade its organization and
functions, and the excellent dialogue which has been established under this
and other projects with the Municipality, combined with agreements and
detailed understandings on staffing, training, technical assistance and policy
measures, would alleviate institutional constraints.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Amman Municipality



- 18 -
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
and the Amman Municipality, issuing of acquisition orders or initiation of
acquisition procedures for the land required during the first year of project
implementation, and establishment of PCTU with its key staff are special
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Approval of traffic
improvement measures for the central business district is a condition of
disbursement for civil works in that district.
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVES.AC;E
AREA (THOLSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL               97.7                                                          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTUR.L        14.7                                     MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA 6                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b            MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
ChF PEK CAP1TA (LSS)                         ..        380.0    1420.0/c                 1253.6                      1902.0
F_NERS. CoNS.KPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS oF COAL EQUIVALENT)         185.7         269.2      522.3                   713.5                     1259.4
*              Po.,PLLATIOh AND *ITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1695.0            2299.0    3244.0
LRbAN POPLLATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7              49.6       56.3                    47.3                       65.7
PoPLLATION PROJECTIONS
4                  POPLLATII, IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                              5.8
STATIObARY  POPULATloN (MILLIONS)                              12.6
YUANR STA IONARY POPULATION IS REACHE D                      2085
POPLLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           17.3          23.5       32.0                    35.8                       35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        132.4         163.6      212.7                   420.9                       92.5
PuPLL.ATIlvb As.T cTMCT.'6' (PEKCENT)
YRS.                            44.4          45.8       46.5                    44.3                        39.7
i-5'. YhS.                             51.5          51.0       50.8                    52.4                       56.1
bS YK5. ANL ABOVE                       4.1           3.1        2.7                     3.3                         4.2
POPULATION GCRUTh RATE (PERCENT)
lOCA-                                  3.1           3.0        3.4                     2.8                        2.4
S,T, 5 N                               5.2/c         4.5        4.7                     4.6                        3.8
CK';D4 blRTh RAT_ (PER THOUSAND)        47.4          47.6       44.4                    41.2                       31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEN THOUSAND)         19.9          15.5        9.7                    12.2                         8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.5           3.6        3.4                     2.9                         2.1
FAMILV PLAXN1NG
ACCEPTORS, ANNEAL (THOLSANDS)            ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..                ..
FOOD ASU NLTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODLCTlOh
PER CAPITA (1969-71-lOC)             220.0         79.0       106.0                   100.4                      117.0
FES CAPITA SUPPLY OF
ALUORILS (PERCENT UF
hEQLIRcEENTS)                       93.2         67.3        61.6/d                108.5                       108.4
PkUTIIES  (GKAMb PER DAY)             6 0.9        40.2        40.37T                  7_9                        66.0
oF .5I(H ANIMAL AND PLLSE           14.6         10.7         l .0/d                 18.0                       34.0
LHILD (A'.E* 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        26.3          12.4        5.8                    15.1                        5.6
H;ALTH
LIFP  tAPECTANCY AT S1ATA  (YEARS)    47.0            54.1       61.2                    56.9                       64.2
:DFANT MoRTALITY RATE (PER
7H6ESANLQD                             135.5          97.5       69.3                   104.3                       64.2
AuCCSS TO  AF,c WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLLATISS )
TOTAL                                 21.3            ..       61.0/c                  59.1                       65.6
*hbASN                                48.6            . .      66.0/c                  93.1                       78.9
k8AAL                                  2.1            ..       NO.0/c                  39.8                       43.9
A5.Lt4  T" SRA  C- .A-C?SAL (PERCENT
cDPOF LLAIIUN)
TOTAi                                   ..            ..         ..                      ..                       59.3
UK,A\                                   ..            ..         ..                      ..                       75.3
t,CRAL                                  ..            ..         ..                      ..                       30.0
sDIL_AT,',N PEA PHYSICIAN             5804.7       3775.0    1956.4                    4015.5                     1617.3
?UPFYLLTION PES SLRSING PERSON        1930.2/e      1477.5      821.0                  1802.2                     1D63.5
EPU YLATlIS D.h HOSPITAL BFD
TOTAL                                557.0       1351.5      118t.8/d                 641.7                      477.4
LKbAN                                   ..       1097.6       687.27d                 538.3                      679.8
F1 hiL                                 . .      5543.6          ..                  2403.3                     1903.4
AOKISo.X4.  cP Pt   'SPLIIAL RE.)          ..         36.5       45.7/d                  25.5                       27.3
AESTKAWF. AIZl OI HOLScHo.D
TILAC                                  5.3           6.1        6.7/c
Lk8Ah.                                 5.5            ..
K1                                     5.1            ..         ...
A, - m    LSULbEk .1 Pf.UO?.S P cR ROOtl
6.5/c
(SeASh                                  ..            ..
k L - A L                               .              .         .
Al-L-.... Cc GL.r TKIUITY (PERCENT
71 5,, 'UE I S1.c
l0OA.i                                17.0            ..       66.0/c
UNAY_                                 39.2            . .      9g.07Q
5KA5L                                  1.4            ..       30. 7F



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG S
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EN'ROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARY:     TOTAL                77.0         72.0/c   102.0/c                88.7                   104.3
HALE                 94.0         79.OTi   106.07i               104.5                   106.4
FEMALE               59.0         65.0/c    99.0/c                72.0                   103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                25.0         33.0/c    74.0/c f              39.7                    41.3
MALE                 36.0         41.07iF    81.7i                49.3                    40.4
FEMALE               13.0         24.07    66.0 7E                29.0                    41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  2.7           3.0/c    13.0/c                10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.1        38.8/c    32.2/c                34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY-                         20.0        23.07E    20.67;i               23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        32.4          ..      70.0                  43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.7         6.7      19.6/d                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         37.8       160.9     171.5                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..        20.0      52.8                  44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  18.3        24.4      29.3/d                31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          0.9       4.0                   1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      432.3        568.6     768.9
FEHALE (PERCENT)                   5.0          5.6       6.5                  10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              44.0        34.0      20.0                  42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                26.0          9.0      20.0                  27.8                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                25.5        24.7      23.7                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 46.7        45.5      43.4                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                2.7         2.8       3.1                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.9         2.0       2.1                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     230.0/d               279.2
RURAL                                ..          ..     100.0/d               178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US8 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     206.0/d               403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     135.d72               285.6                    371.1
EST1IATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE.
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      14.0                  22.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      17.0                  30.9
Nor available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estilate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Eaat Bank only; /d 1977; /e 1962; /f Includes preparatory education ages 12-14 years.
May, 1982



-21-                                                                       IEI
Page 3 of 6
to.,    lhoo  teda       ta *0och 0 d0ft   foo.  --ss  o.-.aITy jodt.d tho sast ssathaitati- Mo utolbsla. it .60,1  Aim b.  .aC.4 ctha  060? -Y a,  ho jotst.,
-at.U-LL, . stohia b- sa  a  lb. Lok of  -oad-aodts  Oaf iott-  aad l-.r-  -..a  ho d10 ffot  notio                         ta CaiL-.1 the A.n.  TU. ..-...            -
thejo_.  _.fal to d.aoi =    td..  of ata.itda. iodLtat  t.Md.. .5d  bhansators  tataid,  jao ditfarWo.t 6.0c.-  0-00t105.
T00  `=fanat   `oop4at  (1) the  -ao  tooo  Cnoa  of Oht  "shj    o           t  004 12) .0. `0gao  06thaast6k    Otthabt    ia . - `00.t     the ""saooy pou
.f                -        -Pobotoooo  (ost f.    "High 10-0    OIl taoto'S-oP 0600. '01ddl. boos. to-th Aftn-oa   Mimi4.. East  Is ohoas  boo.. at  ..ooPr
aai-aioo  stotiad).  It th at ton. 000  data tOt.00.5 -S.. -poPoloOo  -ighbtd otitMotlo aad,aa fot saab i41-t..0  sd shot oly omo
saorolo 1ro  oto iso  b    trop has d.ta for that ildi-ao   Si-t  th. oooorp of  -a           L-ta   -am   Ch. iadi--oo  dopand. -c the a-aLoillty of dat
aod is tot asfn.  otaso  ha Ca-r.-d to -ralatta  a-.a.. of -o  Laditaat.  to  -Chath.  Th.-c  -,.etS- a-  saLy aofta  L. c                          it h   al-. of
AMLt (thoostad 59.6.)                                                                           Po.tolafa  Wo  H05.tal tad - -totl  oa.M   oa   Po,oLatlst (total
Total - total otofoo  -00  .oOotiA6O land  -oo  004 001.04 statt.  1979 data.                    -b-55  sOd ry1) divided by thol   opsov   rMt  of  o-piclt. bods
Vottoloa  - t.tlotar  of  jtti-tala ..    t.           a aOt  ,.00u  atpttIalyaaOal                                   -d9010M   poot   ooa   oooiala    optl   t  o
fo  -oPs. Pdatoao. tatha  sadd kitatos  tvdat o   s  to lit folio.; 1979 d.ta.               hbhilitatimaoaa    tooPttl. at. otb6l10aatA potn                  ly  Mtffod
by -t toast os  physlitts.  Utsslikmoza pCOnvingp Polaipally  b,ao-
SPP    AITA (US 0) - CS? Pot taPta datit.to. at tootnt .otht Ptto... tel1-                   dUia "a. to  -C isaldad.  Banal ha        btl.-   v... lotlod. haltb
toIaos   hIa.   --vnsaim altbd an woolf Bk 601st (197340 basIn); 19600.                           sad -dfat todato   sat PsoolY .oelffd by a phy.ilol, (bat bya
1970. -dL9ip0 dt.                                                                                addl-al dsaistdac. odat.  Ltif a. Ott.) hiab of.n ta-PaCtisttCo -
dattn sad 91..1d. a 11i.L4  -1a~ of Modaal fstilltit.  P.,  tautfa-
0100G0 CttO'tIOMN PER CAPITA - tA-al ..ostL.. of toota    ..tY (.nal                              ti.e1 ptpCodd, arts  hnspltula L-&,oA* VW. PtIottAlstoa l  ospttala.
sad 11041t.                --IoIs.   satoal  aoad hydo-,  -d. oslaftd otothoa  nIft-            s.d  --Lt heapttaIa. 1000I on totL boopinala Mo Moti sad   Oanoity
ltolaty) t Illo so f ..oOl aqialdatO  Pot ..Pto. 1900. 19)0. *so  1979                           -tar-ot   09.01011,d hooltelo eo  iftls."d onl  'Msr tonl..
data.                                                                                         044d.0.I.  Par HO.tatL lad - Toaul t4dao at sadtaalaaa no at disthatta
too  ha.pittt   4100idd by the o4aof hada.
POPVTAT!ON AMD VITAL STATISTICS
Totl Poa1    o.Kid-loan (th-antd.) - A. of  o.ly L; 1900. 1970. so  190                     t3
data.                                                              IftatO fin,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  of ff.nobold fson   o  booohold) - oa.oto.sd  -ta-L
lona=   00at       Pa( Ont of toal t-01  of aOtsa to tonal poPalotlot                           A ho..osbhf4 ooifttao o9 ST-n*. of Ilaiditol tnthe. 110001 qoaattOt
diff-ont  dtfiaittoO   f  obo         .sy affatt o..w .. lty of data                          0.4 theta ofta   W.a.  A boadoC.n 00 lodta    y 00my sat he iftoldad, 10
ostoocaota; 1960. 1970. sad 1900 data,                                                        the h--s.AId to   ttatolpspsa
PopoIlitlo  PTonltitoo                                                                          -.-rap     tr of -oss   o   o.-ttl ot.  o   oa      .sg
?optla-o it yVs 2000 - Ca-omt popoltia pt.ajstOl-   -n  bdasd  - 190                          hat of Pooos at 000  toalot. oCo01  otfdtnsto
total poooo   hyOt Oat to  so  their an-LiCT 004 f-otLtty taa.ttlt,.t.oata. d-UOoaDLL.O.to   old -I.-" nsaat   ttaoo. sat
Peo,Jattlo  p__sotato fot sa."Lit" osoo  otoriso of thoa .-L1.01  ohm'a                     .toaaptd  Wsut.
lot ilt' saPotsoO7 at bi.00 Looaofogm 00thosay   Po" o-pit. tao-,.                       Al05   o  itO,a    (no-to  Of dlItob-nta.ots.sd totl -
I-.01  sOd fsoala lift .op.t--y ... bLtoto  at 77.5 yost..  Th. paoa,                     Caoatotidtlla    L0th atotnItty 10lda 00.a soP.--vna
Wat-n too tttil ity n at  did. bt-  tht-o I.-I.sa.sto  doliot  to                           of tonal.  00.. sad toaul doalliata toacottooly.
fortilLty  -.Cadigla 00tOs-  loo  t-d paat Oaily p1asalo  parfonot..
Enot -o,otn  I. thot ais-ld  -n. of tho.- nIan oo00foatSo of satoLty                  EDtobhTma
sod f-rility Ot-da fr at  ojsaCtfo  Ptnot.-                                               Mdist*d fto LI)o.ot tatit.
Sut.ttooao  oooolantsa - to a otaiotty poplati-o tha."  is -o n..h ofsa                        vti"T.  othol - total. -aL. 0d .4 0 1o - Ct.o. tatal. tal, tad flaa
the bloth 000  i0 oq-1  :to th  tadth Otto  00alt  Oh. a;a  ttoato a,0                        sotolfamt of all ama at the 90.07r  ift00  so poarlata  .a o  "Oapactiva
-to    o st.  rho. I   ho oi-Wo  otly MftoMhtiUt   tta  dtlisa to                       p010.0?                              -Lslo.ppltlt;sttLY Iaolnta  ahildo.. toad 6-15
tho rnplatsat 1,1 of-ilt ost  -.rtolatat.  h055 aet  twaatatiot                               aot  o   dstd fot diffottt 1.000. of polo..  od-tatl.; f-n
of a-a  toplars  ItooLt sotty.  T0.  utatl.ay pa.latito  t..- oa                              oa-orttts  00th sal-al sdoautio  dannIa,1 at sy    aod 100 potosat
ost I.-tod so ohe basis at th  POoJotod teeO          ftaa  the "PopL.tio                     -L-0  om   PoPt.) eta Otlo -o ahnft the off 00    bfthl a.9.
I. the p..t 2000. s.d the -t. at dsal-a of latility nota to toplac-                         Ssaoadan   thesl - total,sat s.d fls.1  - Cam."td so o--..  sotsodsop
t 1_o.I.                                                                                    od,sttiot toorta   .0   otY-ao    soonadP01.0   10tnotlaa
at-  Pttaar   0.-I.1  ais rnaahd - The yTst 06.  ttatitoady poomf.poovfda   otol,Cattal                                         aodothot trafaag fott amit  tot PWfJ1a
nba .111 he orhabd.                                                                           ootyof1to7betoag;soandeaaatat                                 ate 3oe11y
P.P.to-1_ Soatity                                                                                 st.dd
Par to. 10. -  id-no  ps.a.14tI.. pot oqoat kiimtot (100 he.ttat) of                        VrTfoa   ools.ttna   f.Oosy       oslol1.101.
tota   nt;1960.1"'    5417      9  aa0i  oe   nhoti  osaoh   so060  oo.  oIbob opora    bodpsd-P4
Ott s. 10. totoaltotl isd -  oopotd os.ho    (at attiaoltooL Id0d                 otty 00t   aoia   of, 4waataay tastitot100.
0.17; 1960. 1970 sod 1979 data.                                    P~?Opt.-tn.to -ti" -  r           C.aod oetoodsy - Itota  st..dc.t  oartd~  Os
POoOi.dSttotr   rrst      bIrs    -Ay.t)  00k00-900 (15'.                               pClton  so                     ftod.y1000 diodd by -a44oo  of tarao . L. nOn.'
64 yo.n.). tot  latoit   (6) poto sad onto) - pon-staoo  of ald-ya. Popo-                     tonaaodig I .. Id.
(ala  16.190Ad 19   at.                          -Mlt 11t.tspyat  (ParOOo) - Iotart. adftlt  (shb  to to ad sad  -it.)
Pooalotoaboot  Sto  loatoon ,- total - Atoa 0-0-h rant  of noo  tiad-                    ad  Pa pa-stasa af tota  Malt. PnPsto-lo  Gaao 1s yost  Mooo
7peso r -o.lts  too 1950-60. 1960-70.  Ao 1070-00.
Pooat     b 00t   Wat  forotos) - .obto - 1.001 .000t  tts Of 0055  70p0             CONSArIWT
1-l-to     t o  19)0-0  1960-70. -od 1970-00.                                               P -Osaa tarn (not thsoasa  PoPsLcota) - Psos.agst  a.t-nt   to
inoda Birth 0000 (Z'onbh-oa) - A--  li0  hbnthe pan thotoad of aid-yos                           .t.o oataata Iota the  *tosbo P-,aoo  aals.o. Moalm              hat-ad eat
Po.o.Lttil'a. 1900, 1970. sod 1990 data.                                                      atlit-nyvbtl.
COsta  50th  tOt (Ot ohotod A- -Iana  d-bth  pot tboassa   of d.0y-5.0               NM40  Otootaro o  t)tawoo  tonlaqlo) - ALL tyos of  -ai.L-- fso  -add
Popolataoo; I96  lat97.  so  1900 doto.                                                       htoaaao. -ntonlp.0110 Pot thonato  of poPalti-o; oL"iado  -
Conatsndoto tat.t Atar-t    040of dss-ota- .  -am  Ul boats 10                                  IoTooad              L.noot    -.1tri, dad L. 7550  ohda -Oatittat, of radi
herooaa.  toodtthOpariod if the  -ap-1--at  P-ton  t-p-Inafit. 0-                             o         Js.o1  ofoot; tan  f- or oaof past  at, sa  he  -oasht Ot
tIlily  tt.o;  toollyI ito-ost ovoas.  .10~ to1960.  970. so  1900.            otttotl .11oiahad IL-asaSt.
Onall Plootop    Atoptono hootl (thootdn)d - Atoal t.-b- of  -otpto-a              ITV ta-oivat  (tt ho       s  PPotLatIot) - TV toottooto for hbrsd,ot to
ofbot-oool  00.. 006.0 splaof sotto-tl 0 otty p-1aa1n  poot-                                     Lnonl 011  pat t..eo. P"-",I-;oe  =idao  U4 0'add TV no.0l"00
P01, Pisatt   -  bot onoa o   atfd no     - Penostoma of  -`ntld                             to oo-atIftt  sa  it radr* ftoa too.t,t o   t TV -.tO    -  L.  Wfart.
ofhid7-boa.,ioo sg  (1-6  7-) o.a.bitth-toottl  d-..ls  to                            0o0o.r Cltottt   -nt heaad  onatlo.) - Otto  the  -.W  alt-
p.bl-toa-o  d-otad pt.lyto Ca-odis imo-al sa.  it it osatdsto
MM51 AND0 0771101                                                                                 to he "tsily"  1f it oppad- s    Jat Is       too  O-o  a osob
stOd  o I00 I Pnodotio= o = 1it:00 (196-X7110 -1.0 00 pottott -              asa--L          tIm  .Oa.a dtodst ot           t0 . Po,t  T-  - 00004 s  tho  .O- of
poesotiot  f al  foodoodiita.    ondotiot otlt. od sa  d tad  od                  tikbts told d0010  teYotr. 1.Ladto   dMotlaLao to drlo-it   tn
it.000.0L4.d0 yast batit.  Com-ditlt 00-   prlanoy &.A0. (..S. attatas.                       sd sabil. -aLt.
-toato  of  9600)  hiho 500 061010 sd csatal  -stri-.at  (..S. otff- .0sd
tat ot alda)   ARP.tot  p..dotti.a of sor  fooory i. hsosd so                            1030  P0
asisa  aooa. pnodoo   polo. ..itht.; 1901-65. 1970. sad 1900 data,                         toa   Ta.rPn. (thst.sa            - I-asootaly 0001  .0 paat. 10.10400
ly oot001 of caLatie  (p:, toto :ttlooosna) -Co.td foo.-1  fotsoto  slao   Outy.   b                                        lolo  hensets. otdet.   tt...
naar.  -qltoto   t  fo   091.soloI  oooty Pot -apit.                                          0000010  popaitti   of all  Sam.  Sotficaatat to -ltI-o  -ro.t oat
Par doy.  A-otisblt .uPPitos  -oopnl   doostit p,od.sttb. itoot. I..t                        son toqostbhi   1960, 19)0 sod 1900 data.
np_tto. sad ohsoat.L  -to.to .  tat soppliat osold. todan  f sad,. sd..                       Fotal loonost) - F-la loho  foot. so, poonso. of total lahon fatna.
q-C*titlo  t..d L. f-sd poosig.sd Io.-  to diototooti-o  lOoIn-                              Attlotn   ttst  - Laboo fotta to faat1au. foto.try. i-totta  s.
att  oo  aatisatod by PAO hatod -o Pby.Lolotloal  -sd. foo sotal soti-                       f--la  s   atato   of total lobo  foots; 1960. 1970 sad 1940 data.
olytd health ca.lidaOto  -aoitoat.tl toop ..tt-.. body -ietot. a. .ooty  Oost)-lho   ot i   it ",ostnostli. aaafo.t.irta
tad to  d lornbooi.. of ptlto .dstaln    10 panosa  fo- onta onsd sL-sattlty.st,a    s   opoOg   fttl160fta
0                  ~~~~h..osbald 10001; 1961-61.1970 sod 1977 data.                                                 190. 1970 ta.10  data..
P  ..n c .it   ..0.1  of _too    (1-at' P"o daY  - CPntoo  .tootet of Pot capita            f.t"W "Mtia  ta. (O.oo.ot) - tota.sait. sod toot1a - p-tttpafttto 
Ot tpply of food pot day.  5ot .,,,L, of f004 to dot toe  .. sOo.  tat                      otvit  ra.. an. 00.td0 attoa. otto. 0.4 too-o1.0L., to.. s
olo tafor el  tsoriata.llohed by ItOh 9nov14. for oois.                                  P-ottten  of total. salt tod tasal  po.otarOo  0f all sP.tothly
olloOatatof 6000-aof ttal  pntitp   day so  20 toad of sotial ad                       1960. 1970. sad 1900 data.  Ub.o  aft basod so UtO. pattloiats   tatan
polo  porn-it. ofL 1 10  At.-  oh-iod he -01.1 pot..  mass. stood-                            lnflattlag   S0-at  ot.tr f oh. PoPalatis. sod Lop 010. o-ad.  A
atd. at, I.-n  tsa~ lhe. of 75  rS-  of tota  pr-st  006 23 tots of                           f0. -sOo-.  aro ft. -.aiol .        0.. 0.0
.01poato so, -o arta. fot the  -Ind, por.ooad by PAO 10 tbo Thind                     Soosad.o Bopodsa ttl  - tal  of Popolatto  sata  is Mo 0) sod 
0I 10 000   taty; 1961-65..1979  W0 1977 data.       -.                                    to the  oaa      ao  00..
Psraola 000.0  _Pt I, 'ro aoal0d o   -_ P00topply of toad do-
C1000 f      -n 0 L.1  sad P.1... 10tsaptdy; 19614)., 1970 Mod 1977 data.                 1)11110 IIST0IITI.
ChIld(ota  14)SoOt tat (7.  th000.) - fatol 055th. Pot thoosad toIt,tato   oat.too  (both to toh Mo k104  - OtA.itd by rfahet
-w oop  -  ps           hil.  o  6110 .00 thib  tt to..; f- o-at d-vslorta9to               SC atat ttet2090.0  p_ Ctt20 p.otst. sad 9=.00                      4006    Ot
t.100 data datitd f ro  lila 0t1..  1960. 1970 Mo 1900 date,                                  of hnhl
110    ..atOt  a t Oioth (p.."0)-doa  oooht at  ost of lift rt.o.1ooox                  h  follooio  osl.to00   .y  op00otaa              stpostat--  of p0-int  latl..
Lto bih  196.1970 .0d 1900 datA.                                                               sOd ood, he iotost-ad 00th oaoUlta-ala   ttt
ItonOot.lt  5. (00  Oasa A) - -I00  doath  of Wotoan  sdata  00  pt                 faot    Ab-aL-t                      L'to 10. 1.01  05  -a tolt) - ot..- .0toal-
ofaspot M 0000  1100 birtha; 1900. 1970 and 1900 data.                                    00001.0. ponty  Lt,   00   0ta    Os101bb   ,hbSo      tla
tAr.f...     e(onl   tha   0 ..         al  ott Vsoaesh.a sot..  to sal   1                    -tfriootdt      dq.d..P-aaaca                      f.d-U -,   .
sats  ,.Ppl IT ilatat t-stad tuoftot Onrt 0? =-ttatd hat osottstd                            ttluttd 001001- POtoot Istoo 100   00tt ata       nbtM   oa
vata00..ta  foot rototttd boothlon, .91...0  s.-It.O  0011.) to                               toal ~.totoi   pov-no  isot 1-01 10L.-oidfaoaapt090
ptosatso   heI  -sopotto  popol-t-o.  00t   tooso  apb                    p            snjonl  a      t. ofth  oo.ary.  Orbs.I~ 1..0 da 4.1  toot the totL
fosttt  o  oMott ltcatod 000 at   tbha 200 saato ft_t  a    s. saaa y he              1000  0th Od)no  o  hioa  onoa  loo   1                    mt. ornt.
ootrd.t:hel  ohir  rat.-.bl. C--.0  of that he-so.  10 noto  to-ad                   ttstdPolto   ao  Ahoolat Po-t  sot  001(oost      o
-Isohtotm   o.d i.rYly  tat the. haof. or aaban of tbahe '-WohLdodCttl      tnsoo NpoPaldrioo (00655 Mod tot.)  the ot -t 'b)
ha sot boo  to opsad a dlopC"potoiat.  -tt  of the day  io fttthto1 the
-OS  L00 000..      tttlioto   0OOltsf-ttl r.    ta totL-
MotOot f P-aPi. (totl  oOu.56001   nvdb   orat  diapsaa  ad
P000005g. of 000Ct10 ropttit  Pop.ntotoo.  Efoato    diaposa  aty  sL-J."
the taltto  Mo dL5001. ott  on fttbdao  tC_sa t. of W_
I.ad ots-.-tI by ontot-ht   ptma or the. st o  pit p01.s  Mod tiL-
Poroatot tn 0)51000    torsOaOso0104,4d-  by  -bMotto  p-ootloos phyol-                                                  toom        a Mo Dotia  Data OLotLaia
ot.qoaiif lad fo t ds .dtol soheol 00 adsaiyl,..Oo-bg molytto  Md ltoJaCcia DOgeotmat
"ooato   t Ooaa tOt- Po-..at   di-4,  by                oo  f                                                                             Yttita  a  1012
-a . Mot     ,h totsa  on.  50000snss   tstol  a-
most. osaillatod.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
JORDAN - ECONOKIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.4 million (1981) /1
GNP per capita: USS 1,623 (1961T
Amount                                                            Annual Grovth Rates
Indicator                     (million USS at                               Actual (at 1975 prices)                             Projected (at 1980 prices)
current prices)
1981                         1976      1977       1978      1979       1980          1981 /3  1982        1983      1984       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            3,675                         25.0       5.9        9.8       10.9       10.8           8.2       10.8      10.7      9.8        8.9
Agriculture                    213                        11.9         .7      15.0      -23.1       19.3          -3.6        5.0       4.0       5.0       5.0
Industry                       999                        22.9        5.2      22.2       27.6       17.1           5.0       16.0      21.0     18.5       14.0
Services                     2,080                        12.9      -1.6        9.9        12.4       5.7           9.5        7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
Consumption                        4,211                        16.5       4.1       14.1        12.4       -.3          13.9        9.3       8.1       7.9       7.2
Gross Investment                   1,578                        41.6      28.2        1.5       16.9        9.3          16.5      28.1        9.6      2.2        4.2
Exports GNFS                       1,655                        52.0      21.6        9.4       20.1 -   21.8             4.0       13.7      19.7    16.5        14.9
Inporta of GNFS                   3,770                         36.8      17.4        6.9       18.7        4.2          15.1      16.9       12.3      8.7        9.0
Gross National Product            4,493                         37.6       3.2        5.2         9.5      10.9          10.2        9.8       9.0      8.2        7.1
PRICESi
GDP Deflator                                             115.0      129.0     143.9       156.8     172.6         191.7 /6
Exchange Rate                                              3.01       3.04      3.26        3.33      3.35          3.07 74  2.84 /4
Share of GNP at Market Prices (2)                                      Average Annual Increase
(at current prices)                                              (at constant prices)
1971      1975     1980        1985                          1971-75      1975-80      1980-85
Gross Domestic Product                                           95.0      82.1       80.9      87.9                             -0.1         12.3          9.7
Agriculture                                                12.2        7.6       5.4        3.8                             5.1          3.5          4.9
Industry                                                   13.3      19.2       21.0      30.6                              9.7         18.7         17.1
Services                                                   60.0      53.4       46.4      41.9                             -0.5          7.7          7.0
Consumption                                                     113.4     109.3       94.3      92.4                              1.5          9.2          8.5
Gross Investment                                                 18.0      25.9       32.6      34.8                             11.9         18.5         10.1
Exports of GNFS                                                  15.2      35.4       43.7      60.6                             16.1         24.2         16.1
Imports of GUFS                                                  49.7      87.8       89.6    100.8                              11.9         16.2         11.7
Gross National Product                                          100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0                               3.6         12.6          8.5
Net Factor Income                                                 5.0      17.9       19.1      12.1
Gross National Savings /5                                       -13.4      -9.3        5.7      11.0
As Z of GNP
(at current prices)
1971           1975           1981           1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Domestic Revenues                           18.3           24.1           20.3           20.4
Current Expenditures                        31.0           36.6           25.9           25.4
Deficit (-)                                -12.7          -12.5           -4.6           -5.0
Capital Expenditures                        11.4           23.1           17.0
Foreign Financing                           19.9           34.1           21.8
of which foreign grants                  18.1           29.3            18.1
1975-80        1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate                             12.6            8.5
GNP per capita Growth Rate                   8.0            4.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate              16.5           11.6
ICOR                                         4.3            4.8
Narginal Savings Rate /2                    12.7           14.6
Import Elasticity (goozi)                    1.29           1.22
/1  East Bank only.                                                                                                                                        ENENA CPII-D
/2  Based on gross national savings, and GNP, at current prices.                                                                                           January 1983
73 Preliminary constant price estimates.
/4 Actual.
75  GNP minus final consumption.
T6 Estimate.



-    -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
JO11 - 8mXEAL TRADE
A_mut
Indicator             ~~(million Us6 at                                                        Annual Growth Eate
current prices)                          Actual (at 1975 prices)                                Projected (st 1980 prices)
1981                   1976        1977      1978       1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985
EXTERINAL TRADE
Merchandise exports /1                     518.1                  37.4        27.3       6.7       22.5       22.9        13.8       13.0       30.5        20.5       16.3
Primary                                315.8                   32.1       13.1       5.5        16.1       26.2       12.7        11.7       37.3       15.4        14.7
Manufactures                           202.3                   58.3       73.9       9.1       35.6        17.0       15.8        15.8       15.8       33.6        19.9
Merchandise i.ports                      3241.7                   39.4        24.2      -1.3       10.5        7.8         7.4       16.2       11.3         8.3        7.9
Food                                   479.6                   70.2      -14.2      25.8         8.9        7.1        9.1        11.6       14.4       11.8         8.1
Petroleum                              539.9                   24.3       19.1    -13.2         30.3       42.3       16.4        14.0       16.5       15.9        13.9
Machinery and equipment               1278.1                   27.1       43.5      -3.4      -11.7        13.6        7.6       25.1         8.5        2.0         3.4
Other                                  944.1                   35.6       39.5      -9.8        27.5       -3.4        7.0        10.7       10.7        9.8         9.0
PRICES                                                                                (1975- 100)                                              (1580- 100)
Export price index                          --                    90.0       86.1       85.8       90.2      106.9       104.9      112.7      123.3      133.4       144.9
-Import price index                         --                    104.1      112.2    114.8        133.5      150.4      106.5       112.5      121.7      130.9       140.4
Terms of trade index                        --                    86.5        76.7      74.7       67.6       71.1        98.5      100.2      101.3      101.9       103.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                         Average Annual Gro-th Rates
(at current prices)                                     (at constant prices)
1971      1975      1980      1985                     1971-75      1975-80        1981-85
Exports /1                                                    100.0    100.0       100.0   100.0                       12.9          22.9           18.8
Primary                                                    77.0       79.8       66.2    51.0                       14.2         18.2           18.4
M nufactures                                               23.0       20.2       33.8    49.0                        8.4          36.7          20.2
Imports                                                       100.0    100.0       100.0   100.0                       11.3          15.3           10.2
Food                                                       28.8       22.2       18.0    17.7                        5.7         16.5           11.0
Petroleum                                                   6.3       10.6       17.1    18.4                        7.9         19.0           15.3
Machinery and equipment                                    21.1       31.6       27.9    22.3                       31.0          12.0           9.3
Other                                                      43.7      35.5        37.0    41.6                        5.4         16.0            9.4
Share of Total Exports (1)          Share of Total Imports (2)
DIRECTION OF TRADE                                                1971         1975        1980       1971         1975        1980
Developed market economies                                        16.5         17.6         8.4       61.1         62.6        62.8
Developing market economies                                       82.1         70.2        89.7       32.4         29.2        34.5
of which Arab countries                                         75.8        42.4        46.5        21.9        19.8         17.7
Centrally planned economies                                        1.4         12.2         1.9        6.5          8.2         2.7
EMENA CPII-D
/i  Excluding re-exports                                                                                                                                        January 1983
(



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
JORDAN - BALANCE - BALACE OF PAYMINT5. IXTERN4L CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions Us0 *t current prices)
Indicator                                                             Actual                                                         Projected
1971       1976       1977       1978      1979       1960       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services            113       1001       1203       1437      1819       2491       3205      3823       4778       5845       7080      15428
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           32        207        249        297       402        574        742       900       1283       1674       2115       5081
Workers remittances         15        411        470        520       600        792       1042      1207       1405       1625       1875       3479.
Imports of goods 6 services            275       1330       1714       2065      2872       3452       4550      5491       6644       7846       9046      17259
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          213       1020       1376       1497      1957       2393       3237      3976       4787       5585       6469      11344
Workers remittances             -        20         46          65        80        154       159       202        257        321        393           -
Net transfers                          102        381        504        347      1046       1335       1321      1200       1000       1000        600          0
Current account balance                -60         52         -7       -280        -7        374        -26      -468       -867      -1001      -1366      -1831
Private direct investment               -5        -10         11         56        26         31        144        90         99        109        120        190
MLT loans (net)                         23         71        190        189       193        232        234       585        942       1072       1425       1987
Official                               --         70         86        112       143        240        225       588        722        500        657       1056
Private                                --          1        104         77        50         -8          9        -3        220        572        768        931
Other capital                           37        -54        -21        278        69       -281       -299       -21          6          6          7         10
Changes in reserves                      5        -59       -173       -243      -281       -356        -54      -186       -180       -186       -186       -356
International reserves                 251        551        724        967      1248       1604       1658      1844       2024       2210       2396       3674
Of which:  Gold                        28         80         81         81        82        208        198       200        200        200        200         --
Reserves as months of imports           11.0         5.0       5.1        5.6        5.2        5.6       4.4        4.0       3.6        3.4         3.2       2.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                    25         91        214        221       270        308 /1    335        675        907       1502       1741       3450
oncessio.nal loans                   25         80         94        119       151        133        140       297        365        381        374       1047
IDA                                3          6          9          6        13          9          3        4         --         --         --         --
Other                             22         74         85        113       138        124        137       293        365        381        374      1047
Non-concessional loans                -         11        120        104        99        175        195       378        542       1121       1367       2403
Official export credits            -          3          3          8         2         97         87       214        327        300        302        396
IBRD                               -          -          -          -         4         23         19       22          33        39         43         60
Other multilateral                 -          -          -          -         7         14         19        75        130        161        184       338
Private                            -          8        117         96        86         41         70        67         52        620       836        1608
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           137        410        623        841      1048       1266       1423      2188       2906       4165       5599      14135
official                         137        361       469         609       765        993       1146      1896      2629        3337      3994       9130
Private                            -         49        154        232       283        273        277       293       277        828       1604       5005
Undisbursed debt                     44        274        563        828       881       1237        857      1445       1338        732        598        844
Debt service
Total service payments                6         27         38         58        96        133        182       239        328        423        580       2102
Interest                           2          8         15         24       40         58          81      105         139       180        272        770
Payments as X exports /2              5.3        2.7        3.2        4.0       5.3        5.4        5.7       6.3        6.9        7.2        B.2       13.6
Average interest rate
on new loans (X)                     --          2.4        5.9        6.2       5.4        6.8        3.1       7.6        7.6        7.3        7.8        7.1
Average maturity
of new loans (years)                 --         25.6       14.4       17.9      21.1       14.8       15.7      15.2       15.1       12.1       11.8       12.5
Average grace
of new loans (years)                 --          6.6        3.5        5.6       4.6        3.9        4.5       4.0        4.1        3.7        3.6        3.6
As I of Debt Outstanding
at end of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                         58.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                       122.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                         6.6
--  Data not available.                                                                                                               EMENA CPII-D
/1  Preliminary estimate.                                                                                                             January 1983
7T Exports of goods and services.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1983)
-------US$ Million-------
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower        Purpose           Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Hashemite
Fourteen credits    Kingdom of
fully disbursed    Jordan                                      80.1        -
639        1975         "             Tourism                    6.0       0.5
1617       1978      The Arab
Potash Co.      Potash Extraction 35.0                0.2
1688       1979      Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan       Power III           15.0              1.1
1781       1979                       Education III      19.0             14.1
1826       1980                       CVDB               10.0              9.7
1893       1980                       Urban Development 21.0              19.3
1986       1981                       Power IV           25.0             22.6
2068       1982                       Education IV       25.0             24.3
2162       1982                       Power V            35.0             35.0
2213       1983 a/                    Water Supply and
Sewerage          17.0            17.0
2246       1983 a/                    Education V        18.8             18.8
TOTAL                                                  220.8   86.1    163.4
of which has been repaid                 -      1.7
Total now held by Bank/IDA b/           220.8   84.4
Total undisbursed                     162.9    0.5    163.4
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Includes exchange rate adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
…---   US$ Million------
Year            Obligor          Type of Business       Loan      Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.              Ceramic Tiles            1.6       0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.              Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 1/   8.7         88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate               Building Materials       2.5       0.7        3.2
1979     Jordan Securities       Money & Capital
Corp.                   Market                            0.7        0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Leasing                           0.3        0.3
Total Commitments                              83.6 1/  10.6        94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                      52.0 1/    -         52.0 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    31.6     10.6       42.2
Total Undisbursed                               7.5        -         7.5
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 639:    Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: July 1', 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodations and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well as
the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the Basin.
The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance. The
project is completed. The Credit is fully disbursed, except a small
allocation for letters of credit. The credit account will be closed following
the processing of final withdrawal applications under letters of credit.
Loan 1617:       The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date;
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consists of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. The project was
inaugurated in March 1982 and the plant started production in September 1982.
The loan is fully disbursed except allocations for two letters of credit.
Loan 1688:       Third Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4, 1979; Date
of Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The Third Power Project is an integral part of Jordan's 1979-82 Power
Development Program whose long-range objective is to progressively inter-
connect the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan into an economic
and reliable national power system.  Specifically, the project would supply
the power needs of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock mining
works at El Hassa, the cement plant at Rashadiya and rural distribution
loads in Central Jordan.  The project is largely completed.  No significant
problems have been observed in the project's execution.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems that are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1781:      Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of
January 21, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; March 12, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in training skilled
manpower required in implementing the economic development plan, improving the
quality of education and enhancing the Ministry of Education's management
capabilities. The project would expand technician and vocational training,
increase the supply of teachers, improve agricultural education, expand adult
education, upgrade school building maintenance and establish a computerized
management information system in the Ministry of Education. Construction has
started on all but one of the project schools and bids have been invited on
the remaining school. A contract has been signed for the hardware and
software for the management information system. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is proceeding on schedule, as is the technical assistance program.
Although project implementation is well underway, disbursements have lagged
behind appraisal estimates because of delays in the start-up of the management
information system and construction of schools. The loan is now largely
committed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Loan 1826;      Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) Project;
US$10 Million Loan of September 8, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness; March 31, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project would help establish CVDB as a development bank for
municipalities and villages, and provides a line of credit to finance eligible
subprojects over a two-year period. It also includes a technical assistance
component to: (i) train CVDB staff; (ii) undertake a study of the ways and
means of increasing productive projects in local communities; and (iii)
provide an advisor to assist CVDB's management. CVDB has encountered problems
in staffing its appraisal department. This has delayed CVDB in appraising and
proposing subprojects for financing under the loan. While these constraints
still require close monitoring, CVDB's performance is improving. About
40 percent of the loan is committed.  Staffing problems and possible remedial
measures are under review. With further alleviation of these problems,
project implementation should accelerate. Closing date has been extended by
six months, to June 30, 1985.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1893:      Urban Development Project; US$21 Million Loan of
September 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: May 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project includes: (a) provision of about 5,000 plots under three
sites and services schemes benefitting about 41,000 persons with low to
middle-income; (b) upgrading of four low-income settlements in the City of
(     Amman; (c) small business assistance and manpower training; (d) consultancy
services for project management, design and supervision and studies; and (e)
provision for maintenance services and purchase of equipment. There has been
good progress in acquisition of sites and staffing of the project executing
entity. Response to bids called in 1981 was unsatisfactory. The bidding was
repeated, and contracts for upgrading works were awarded in June 1982. The
plot development component has not progressed as expected due to the
Government decision to review the design standards. This issue is now
resolved and the implementation of the component is underway.
Loan 1986:      Fourth Power Project; US$25 Million Loan of June 22, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness: March 17, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985,
The project includes: (a) construction of about 160 km of 132-kV
transmission lines; (b) construction and extension of five substations, with a
total transformer capacity of 619 MVA; (c) extension of the urban distribution
network, including power supply to three low-cost housing developments; and
(d) electrification of about 20 villages around Amman and 30 villages in the
Central and Southern regions. Procurement has begun and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 2068:      Fourth Education Project; US$25 Million Loan of
January 20, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: June 17, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project includes: (a) construction of a polytechnic, four
vocational secondary schools, one trade training center and one
nursing/paramedical training institute; (b) extension to an existing
polytechnic and conversion of two teacher training institutes to community
colleges; and (c) technical assistance for above schools and for development
of comprehensive secondary school curricula and programs. The construction of
the trade training center is underway, and on schedule. Tender documents for
most of the other schools have either been issued or are under preparation as
scheduled. Disbursements are expected to accelerate during 1983.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2162:      Fifth Power Project; US$35 Million Loan of August 6, 1982; Date
of Effectiveness: March 4, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project includes construction of a power station in Aqaba, a
transmission line between Aqaba and Amman, and consultant services for
engineering, erection, supervision and initial operation. Bids for power
station equipment have been awarded.
Loan 2213:      Zarga/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$17 Million
Loan of January 17, 1983; Date of Effectiveness: (not yet
effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
The project includes improvement of the water supply network,
construction of sewerage facilities, storm water culverts, maintenance
workshop (including equipment), and provision of technical assistance for
project implementation and institutional improvements. Tender documents are
under preparation and work on effectiveness conditions is underway.
Loan 2246:     Fifth Education Project; US$18.8 Million Loan of
April 11, 1983; Date of Effectiveness: (not yet effective);
Closing Date; June 30, 1988.
The project includes constructing, equipping and furnishing of 15
general vocational secondary schools and three centralized secondary schools.
Work on effectiveness conditions is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare        Six months from October 1982
the project;                                to March 1983.
(b)  The Agency which has prepared the           Amman Municipality with the
project;                                    Assistance of the National
Planning Council.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank   September and October 1982.
and date of first Bank mission
to consider the project;
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;  January 24, 1983.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;         May 6, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.              November, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) AM would establish PCTU and appoint key staff (para. 45).
(b) Government would initiate acquisition procedures or issue acquisition
orders for land required for the first year of project implementation
(para. 46).
(c) Government and AM would sign a subsidiary loan agreement (para. 49).
Condition of Disbursement:
Government approval of the traffic improvement schemes for the
central business district is a condition of disbursement for civil
works pertaining to these schemes (para. 37).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other Undertakings:
(a) AM would establish by the beginning of 1986 a system of cost
accounting in its ED, MED, Studies Department and the proposed Solid
Waste Management Department (para. 39); restrict AM force account
works to 30 percent of total works (para. 40).
(b) AM would develop guidelines for the management and operation of
sanitary landfills and create a Solid Waste Management Department by
end 1983; prepare a plan and program for waste collection by end
1984; establish solid waste collection charges by end 1985 which
ensure full cost recovery; and the Government would ensure that
municipalities which use the landfills pay a suitable fee to AM
(para. 42).
(c) AM would prepare a strategy plan by end July 1984, an investment
program by end 1984 and a financial plan by end March 1985, and
review these with the Bank thereafter (para. 43).



B I D
GOVERNORAT EGCVRNOAT
A~~~~~~~~~~BG                     M
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO
GOVERNORAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHt,E
BAQAA CAMP  -'~~~~~~~CAA
15,~ ~~~~~~'  NjPoec                                                    167
(24,497)                      -
SAHAB~~~~~~
-K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AMMAN  URBAN  TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                      ..  A
LOCATION OF NEW SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES                                  _R/
3020 550Am) AAORALARS  AAAAN VON C,R~   R0AR------ AT-K 
A RCARSI STE                  --5FAV E'JRARIAA            -E---NRR3 TANI-.A5I



A



18RD 17087
JORDAN
AMMAN URBAN TRANSPORT AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION  OF TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC  IMPROVEMENTS
IMPllOVEMENT COPRJDORS                                                                                                         i            ;           _
ACCESS TAl IA OW CORE ARHEAS                     G, HO   \,I./    -
ISOLATEOSCROECTIHO IHEPOVFRENRS   A TA YR      9Ti-               \ -
MtJ CAIRALOPSO,   ,0 S  0 0 SEA     ARJ     -  ;i.fi 
IA   NAA1
)                         D                                                                                              fak :'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
.'-O'    ''A, TRAi4'        .          ::  }; '  f                                F       ~                  f      b '  fi          ,, ;-:    -
',    '  w'  '  -   j ~   '  j'*   '    0   r   Vt;'            ';       O     oA   A J    I.E  AR
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J      EROOAhR  J,SAR AN 5AR,AJJ,, 
-31-54'  j \ =; :t Q  .  ,  3 *54- I ] " \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                      j          3 AUD   ARJAbl
I            =        r       r       ,,   .        I~~~~~~~~~~~~SRELAR 7  AARODAN
h    A T,,-  M' /JERAAA,AJJ_,AAO\CACOAJ
n.A rJOACA.15 5A A,IGrne A S r>s R ,sAtEe  RRuARAJAOO                                                                                                ,                 Covrneo     
F  1aisx   oRura/el  neds.................. , . 9sda P Ee blgdlnfl sln 01s I  dOnCl  \/
HA, M - AEA AOThe2JO  q3dE  tr OCCARARA,JAAHA AAJAOJ,HR,R,A                                          '.nyi                                                ARABWAz nwrnenl4rpo o//obsEsi      3 ;toutp
C~JAORA5AJi' 5-4_3OAOCJRO AOOJAA5JOJOAOCJ<A,             _AA35-5EO_AJRCRACRCA,A.CAATMARJOOCAM                                                        eR



