SOFFICIAL   ILOAN NUMBER 2334 JO
DOUCUM ENTS
Project Agreement
(Amman Transport and Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF AMMAN
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2334 JO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRiTION 'AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the. Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF AMMAN (hereinafter
called the Municipality).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent-- to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Municipality agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Municipality, the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to the Municipality on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as      . ows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Municipality shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The Municipality shall: (i) assign the
responsibilities for the carrying ,out of the various activities
under the Project to the Technical Departments, substantially in
accordance with.the provisions stated in Part A of..Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (ii) ensure the assignment to said Technical
Departments-of the ;staff referred to in Part B of such Schedule
in accordance with the time schedule stated therein.
(b)-  The Municipality shall: (i), establish and maintain
until the completign ,of the Project, a project coordination and
training unit (PCTU) to ;be, assigned under ,the Project the .re-
sponsibilities stated, in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agrpement;
and (ii) ensure the assignmenp to PCTU of the staff indicated in
Part B of said Sqhedule in ,accordance with the time schedule
stated therein. 
(c)   The Municipality shall ensure the establishment of
the Solid Waste Management,. Department (SWMD) not later than
December 31, 1983..
Section 2.03. In.order to assist the Municipality in carry-
ing out the Project, the Municipality shall employ specialists,
whose qualifications and experience and terms of reference are
satisfactory to the Bank, in- the numbers and substantially in
accordance with the -time schedule indicated in Part C of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Municipality shall: (a) carry out the
studies included in the Project in accordance with the time
schedule referred to in Part D of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) provide the Bank with a copy of each such study prompt-
ly upon its completion; and
(c) . exchange views with the, Bank on the recommendations of
each such study and ,the action.tq be taken for their implementa-
tion.
Section 2.05. In order to ensure the allocation of adequate
funds for the Project, the, Municipality shall prepare for every
fiscal year, until the completion of the Project, a forecast of
all expenditures expected to beincurred under the Project during
such -fiscal year, and shall provide such forecast to the Borrower
in adequate time before the start of such .fiscal year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Municipality shall: (a) ensure the comple-
tion and operation of the cost accounting system, referred to in
Part C (a) of the Project, not later than January 1, 1986; and
(b)  provide to the Bank, for its comments, not later than
December 31, 1983, guidelines for the management and operation of
the sanitary landfills, included in Part B (b) of the Project,
and a plan for reclamation of the Marka dump site.
Section 2.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The Municipality undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Municipality to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   The Municipality shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) The Municipality shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Municipality: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits Lo be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank on a
quarterly basis all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,


﻿the benefits, to, be derived from  t, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed. out of..
such proceeds.
(c)  Upon the award by the,Municipality of any contract for
goods or works to be f nanced out of the proceeds of the, Loan,
the Bank may publish a, description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party. to whom the contract was awarded, and the
contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event, not later , than .six. monthp after the, Closing Date or such
later date as .may be agreed for this purpose between the Munici-
pality and the Bank, the Municipality shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank:.a report, of such. scope, and in such detail as the
Bank phall. reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from, it,, the performance by the Municipality and
the Bank.of,their respective ,obligations under the Project Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e)  The Municipality shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings,, property and. equipment of the Municipality and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.10. The Municipality shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Municipality shall.not take or
concur, [n. iany action which would have the effect of pmending,
abrogating, assigning ,or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) The Municipality shall, at the request of
the Bank,. exchange viewq with the Bank with . -gard to the pro-
gressqf. ,the, Project., the performance of its obligations under
this, Agreemept and und,er the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 4nd 'other
matters relating to, the purposes of the Loan.
(b)  The ,Municipality.shall,promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the, performance by the Municipality of its obliga-
tions under .this' Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agr ee-
ment..


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Municipality
Section 3.01. The Municipality shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Municipality shall at all times operate
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. The Municipality shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. The Municipality shall continue to ensure
that the portion of the road maintenance and construction work
carried out by ED's staff and facilities shall not exceed in any
fiscal year 30% of all such works to be carried out during such
fiscal year.
Section 3.05. The Municipality shall adopt operational pro-
cedures for MED which shall .ensure: (a) the transfer to other
departments of control over drivers of vehicles not operated by
MED; (b) the introduction by MED of a provider-user system for
vehicle management and use; and (c) the adoption by MED of
appropriate policies for staffing, replacement of equipment and
acquisition of spare parts.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Municipality shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b)    The Municipality shall maintain separate accounts


﻿-6-
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices, its operation, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Municipality shall:
(a)   have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles   consistently   applied,   by   independent   auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Municipality thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Municipality
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made' under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Municipality:
Municipality of Amman
P.O. Box 132
Amman, Jordan
Cable Address:                     Telex:
AMMAN MUNICIPALITY                 21969 AMCITY-50
AMMAN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Municipality may be taken or executed
by the Lord Mayor of Amman or such other person or persons as the
Lord Mayor shall designate in writing, and the Municipality shall


﻿-8-
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, 'have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of Anierica, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Re ional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
MUNICIPALITY OF AMMAN
By
Author zed Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE I1
Responsibilities for Project Implementation,
Staffing of Technical Department,
Technical Aspistance and Studies
A.   Responsibilities for Project Implemer--ation
Project
Component             Part          Department Responsible
1.   Four Major Inter-      A (a)        SD and ED
sections
2.   Traffic Improvement    A (b)        SD and ED
Measures
- Traffic Enforce-     A (b)        PCTU in coordination
ment Training        (5) (ii)     with the Borrower's
relevant authorities
3.   Arterial Road          A (c)        SD
Feasibility and
Design Studies
4.   Road Maintenance.      C (b),       ED
(c), (e)
5.   Municipal Workshop     C (d)        MED
6.   Solid Waste            B             SWMD
Management
7.   Amman Development      D             SD
Planning
8.   Coordination of        D (d)        PCTU
Training and
Project Implemen-
tation
9.   Development and        C (a)        Finance Department,
Implementation of a                 Technical Departments
Cost Accounting
System in the
Technical Departments


﻿- 10 -
B.   Staffing of Technical Departments
Agency/Position                      Date of Appointment
1.   Project Coordination and Training Unit (PCTU)
Project Manager                            October 31, 1983
Project Engineer                           October 31, 1983
Project Accountant                         October 31, 1983
Training Coordinator                       October 31, 1983
2.   Engineering Department (ED)
Director                                   December 31, 1983
Head of Sections                           December 31, 1983
concerned with
contract super-
vision and
direct construction
4 Senior Engineers                         December 31, 1983
4 Technicians                              December 31, 1983
(traffic engineering
section)
3.   Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED)
Accountant                                 December 31, 1983
4.   Solid Waste Management Department (SWMD)
Director and two                           December 31, 1983
section Heads


﻿- 11 -
Agency/Position                      Date of Appointment
5.   Studies Department (SD)
2 Economists                              December 31, 1983
2 Transport Planners                      December 31, 1983
2 Municipal Engineers                     December 31, 1983
1 Geologist/Civil Engineer                December 31, 19.83
2 Traffic Engineers                       December 31, 1983
3 Civil Engineers                         December 31, 1983
C.   Technical Assistance
Nature of Technical Assistance             Date to be Engaged
1.   Traffic Engineer                     December 31, 1983.
2.   Traffic Signals Specialist           December 31, 1983
(intermittent)
3.   Specialists for                      December 31, 1983
traffic police training
4.   Consultants for                      July 1, 1984
engineering and economic                                  -
feasibility study of arterial
roads
5.   Consultants for                      June 30, 1985
detailed designs for
arterial roads
6.   Road maintenance                     December 31, 1983
engineering adviser
7.   Consultants for                      June 30, 1984
studies on road inventory,
pavement evaluation, and
quality control


﻿- 12
Nature of Technical Assistance            Date to be Engaged
8.   Urban economist,                     December 31, 1983   .
transport planner and
municipal engineeir
9.   Accountancy specialists              December 31, 1983
D.   Studies
Study                            Date.of Completion
1.   Engineering and economic              December 31, 1984
feasibility studies of arterial
roads in Amman
2.   Detailed designs for arterial         June 30, 1986
roads (details on roads and
timing depend on feasibility studies)
3.   Study of means to increase the        December 31, 1984
productivity of solid waste
collection
4.   20-year development strategy          July 31, 1984
for Amman      -
5.   6-year investment program for         December 31, 1984
Amman
6.   5-year plan for Municipality-         March 31, 1985
Amman Finances
7.   Improvement of accounting             June 30, 1985
system


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" piublished by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Municipality shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 'days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Municipality shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 14 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Jordan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jordan if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Municipality and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of -such  goods includes a value added in Jordan
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 15 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties-and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works under Parts A, 3 and C of the
Project estimated to cost not more than $2,000,000 equivalent per
contract  and- not more    than,.$16,000,000  equivalent   in  the
aggregate may be awarded in accordance with applicable procedures
of the Borrower for competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Items of equipment estimated in the aggregate to cost not
more than the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured on the basis
of price quotations obtained from not less than three reliable
suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of more than $100,000 and for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Municipality shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the .said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, the Muni-
cipality shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as


﻿- 16 -
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Municipality and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Municipality shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
or price quotation, as the case may be, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Municipality and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.                         .
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Municipality shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Municipality and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this Ri       day of         198s.
FOR SECRETARY


