                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 38266

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (CPL-37080 TF-55417)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                            FOR A

                      NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                       December 28, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Lain America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                              Currency Unit = Guaraní
                           Guaraníes 5,300 = US$ 1
                               US$ 0.00019 = Guaraní 1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAH      Smallholder Credit Agency
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CICAR    Rural Research and Training Center
COR      Regional Operating Committee
CRAE     Regional Environment Center
CODE     Departmental Committee
DINCAP   MAG's Directorate for Project Coordination and Administration
DEAg     MAG's Directorate of Rural Extension
DEP      Project Executive Directorate
DGJ      MAG's Directorate of Gender and Youth
DGP      MAG's Directorate of Planning
DIA      MAG's Directorate of Agricultural Research
DIPA     MAG's Directorate of Livestock Research
ERR      Economic Rate of return
FIP      Farm Investment Proposal
FDRS     Sustainable Rural Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Rural Sostenible)
FIDES    Rural Development Investment Fund
FOCORN   Natural Resources Conservation Fund
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GOP      Government of Paraguay
IAs      Indigenous Associations
ICDP     Indigenous Community Development Plan
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
INDERT   National Rural Development and Land Institute
INDI     Indigenous Peoples Institute of Paraguay
IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IRC      Community Rural Investments
JVCRN    Juntas Vecinales ­ Local Natural Resource Management Groups
MAG      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MSC      Municipal Steering Committee
MDC      Microcatchment Development Committee
MDP      Microcatchment Development Plan

MEC     Ministry of Education and Culture
MIP     Municipal Investment Proposal
MIS     Management Information System
MSPBS   Ministry of Health and Welfare
MOPC    Ministry of Public Works and Communications
MT      Ministry of Labor
MTR     Mid Term Review
NCC     National Coordination Committee
NPV     Net Present Value
PARN    Paraguay Natural Resources Management Project
PMU     Project Management Unit
QAT     Quality Assurance Team
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SEAM    Secretary of the Environment
UCTAP   Project Technical and Administrative Coordination Unit
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme



                           Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                          Country Director    Axel van Trotsenburg
                           Sector Director     Laura Tuck
                           Sector Manager     Mark Cackler
                             Sector Leader     Carter Brandon
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Alvaro Soler

                                         PARAGUAY
                            Natural Resources Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
6. Sustainability                                                                23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 24
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       45

Project ID: P007918                                                  Project Name: Natural Resources Management Project
Team Leader: Alvaro J. Soler                                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Natural Resources Management Project                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-37080; TF-55417
   Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (28%); Other social services (28%); Roads and
                            highways (25%); Micro- and SME finance (12%); Central government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Other rural development (P); Indigenous
                            peoples (S); Land administration and management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/20/1990                                     Effective: 10/06/1994                07/11/1993
     Appraisal: 06/08/1992                                         MTR: 11/15/1997                  12/03/1998
      Approval: 02/22/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 03/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF PARAGUAY/MIN AG
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Mark D. Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Alvaro Soler                                   Steven William Oliver
ICR Primary Author:             Judith M. Lisansky; Alvaro J.
                                Soler


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were: (i) to establish the
institutional framework necessary to deal with the major agricultural and natural resource problems of the
project area; (ii) to generate information through research and implement an area-wide system of natural
resource protection; (iii) to assist small farmers in the establishment of sustainable, diversified agricultural
production systems and conservation measures; and (iv) to encourage the direct participation of the local
population in project implementation.

The central aim of the project was to introduce a coherent strategy of watershed management by providing
technology, technical assistance and research results to small farmers in selected rainfall catchment areas in
the Department of Alto Paraná and the northern part of the Department of Itapúa in Eastern Paraguay in
order to ensure sustainable, diversified agricultural production in harmony with sustainable natural
resource management. This approach was intended to reverse environmental degradation that had been
exacerbated since deforestation accelerated in the region in the 1970s, as well as to contribute to increased
incomes from improved production. Designated protected areas were to be expanded with support provided
for their maintenance. Remaining indigenous people were to be supported and enabled to maintain their
traditional way of life on increased land areas and on protected forest areas. The project was also designed
to help rehabilitate and modernize basic rural infrastructure and improve small farmers' access to credit.

Although focused on highly-targeted pilot areas with the idea of scaling-up in a subsequent operation, the
project's objectives were ambitious given the challenges and risks inherent to the serious weaknesses of the
implementing agencies, the centralized and complex institutional arrangements, and the broad scope of the
interventions. The fact that the project faced substantial risks was clearly brought out in the SAR.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were unchanged throughout the implementation period. Although the
objectives were not revised, the project was restructured in 2000 based on the findings of the Mid-Term
Review (MTR). (See 3.4).

3.3 Original Components:
The project, as originally designed, had five components:

     Components/Sub-components                            Objectives                    Responsible Institutions
1. Agricultural Development
1.1. Agricultural Production and        To increase agricultural output within        Ministry of Agriculture
Natural Resources Management            sustainable diversified systems.              and Livestock (MAG)
1.2. Forestry and Environmental         To increase protected areas and forestry      MAG
Conservation                            research.
1.3. Training, Social Organization and To develop agro-industry and marketing         MAG
Technical Assistance                    through producers' organizations.
1.4. Natural Resources Conservation     To encourage conservation-oriented            MAG
Fund (FOCORN)                           investment at the farm level.
2. Indigenous Communities               To improve security and well-being of         MAG
                                        indigenous communities.
2.1. Land Security                      The acquisition and regularization of        Indigenous Peoples
                                        indigenous lands.                            Institute of Paraguay
                                                                                     (INDI)
2.2. Agricultural Production Support.   To provide technical and financial assistance MAG
                                        to increase and diversify agricultural
                                        production.
2.3 Health                              To improve indigenous health.                 Ministry of Health and



                                                      - 2 -

                                                                                        Welfare (MSPBS)
2.4 Education                          To improve primary and adult education.          Ministry of Education and
                                                                                        Culture (MEC)
3. Infrastructural Development         To mitigate the negative environmental           Ministry of Public Works
                                       impact of existing roads.                        (MOPC)
4. Institutional Development           To decentralize management by encouraging        MAG
                                       local and more democratic participation.
5. Pilot Agricultural Credit           To increase production by smallest farmers       Smallholder Credit Agency
                                       using sound environmental practices              (CAH)

The activities of the five components are summarized below.

Component 1: Agricultural Development (US$46.4 million total cost): Activities supported under this
component would assist in restructuring the productive process towards sustainable, conservation-oriented
agriculture. The component was based on: (i) a reorientation of the institutional apparatus for promoting
organization and technology; (ii) a reorientation of the traditional productive focus; (iii) the involvement of
the population and its organizations; (iv) an emphasis on sustainability and resource conservation in the
development of operational plans; and (v) an emphasis on diversification.

Component 2: Indigenous Communities (US$3.4 million total cost): Activities under this component
would provide assistance to the remaining indigenous population of the project area in 27 communities of
the Tupí Guaraní group. The component would support these groups and improve their security and
well-being.

Component 3: Infrastructural Development (US$15.4 million total cost): The objective of this
component was to realign, rebuild, improve and maintain existing roads to reduce their negative
environmental effects and to follow and support agro-ecological land use zoning.               The maintenance
program was targeted at roads reconstructed or improved under the project.

Component 4: Institutional Development (US$5.1 million total cost): The objective of this component
was to decentralize management by encouraging local and more democratic participation. The component
was designed to provide inputs necessary to bridge the identified capacity gaps and includes: (i) government
decisions that are reflected in project conditionality; (ii) specialist assistance to bridge those capacity gaps
that require the introduction of "management and administrative technology" into entities where the gaps
have been identified or for newly-created entities such as the Project Technical and Administrative
Coordination Unit (UCTAP); (iii) training activities to bridge identified skill gaps; and (iv) financing for
incremental recurrent costs, in particular for the functioning of UCTAP.

Component 5: Pilot Agricultural Credit (US$8.8 million total cost): This component was designed to
finance 70 percent of individual sub-projects, up to a limit of US$5.0 million, in a pilot credit program. In
order to receive credit, farmers would have a farm development plan with conservation/resource
management actions agreed with UCTAP and the Smallholder Credit Agency (CAH). Farmers receiving
credit would be expected to comply with the restrictions imposed by existing and any future laws affecting
land use, as well as with the stipulations of the farm development plan and the microcatchment area
development plan.

The design for project implementation was ambitious insofar as it promoted the decentralization of
authority and coordination among a large number of institutions in order to foster inclusive and
environmentally-sustainable rural development. Overall project implementation responsibility was under



                                                      - 3 -

the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) with the participation of the Indigenous Peoples Institute
(INDI), the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), the Ministry of Health and Welfare (MSPBS), the
Ministry of Public Works (MOPC) and CAH. It was intended that MAG would rely on the National
Directorate for Coordination and Project Administration (DINCAP-MAG) for overall project coordination
and management. Three new units were to be created by MAG for project implementation: the (UCTAP),
the Rural Research and Training Centre (CICAR) and the Regional Environmental Center (CRAE) as the
first of several other new units to be created through another operation supported by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB).

3.4 Revised Components:
In 1996, shortly after Loan effectiveness, a new (sixth) component, designed as a stand-alone social fund,
was added to test a different support mechanism for rural communities. This component, Rural Community
Investments (IRC), with an estimated cost of US$5 million reallocated from elsewhere in the project,
initially supported pilot community productive activities to help alleviate poverty in three Departments
outside the original project target area; this was later expanded to a total of ten Departments. It was
comprised of two sub-components, one providing support for sub-projects and a second supporting a small
implementation and technical assistance unit. This new component was clearly consistent with the project's
original objectives.   Nevertheless, its addition at the beginning of implementation posed a serious
management, coordination and supervision challenge since its activities were conducted separately from
those under the original project until the project's restructuring in 2000.

Based on the findings of the MTR carried out in 1998-1999, the project was restructured in 2000. The
MTR concluded that, despite the institutional strengthening activities that had been carried out, the
project's implementation was slow and significantly delayed largely due to weak institutional
implementation arrangements (and an overly optimistic plan for addressing institutional weaknesses), the
lack of experience with decentralization and the challenges of multi-institutional coordination. Such
challenges were further exacerbated by Paraguay's overarching financial and political instability.

The project restructuring focused primarily on streamlining the institutional set-up to encourage speedier,
more effective and transparent operations. For example, considerable efficiency was gained when it was
agreed that key administrative and contracting functions would be carried out by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) instead of the National Directorate for Project Coordination and
Administration (DINCAP). In addition, a centralized Project Executive Directorate (DEP), more
independent from the MAG structure but directly linked to the Minister, was created in Asunción to replace
the Project Technical and Administrative Coordination Unit (UCTAP) and to concentrate on project
management. On the operational side, the restructuring focused on adjusting targets, reducing some
activities, lowering counterpart contributions and reallocating disbursement categories. Targets and
activities were more realistically dimensioned in line with institutional capacities and the time available
until the Loan's Closing Date. For details, including cost adjustments, see Annex 1.

The following changes were made to restructure the project in 2000.

·        Component 1 (Agricultural Development). Agricultural research activities under Component 1
were re-directed to generate practical technological approaches that could be more quickly validated and
disseminated via applied field research and demonstration by extension agents before the close of the
project. In addition, the activities in Sub-component 1.2 (Forestry and Environmental Conservation) were
re-focused towards supporting the development of the San Rafael National Park to avoid the overloading of
pertinent collaborating agencies.




                                                      - 4 -

·        Component 2 (Indigenous Communities). The health and education sub-components were scaled
back because of slow implementation by collaborating ministries, and it was recommended that the project
consider providing support to existing NGO health and education initiatives. In addition, a modest
institutional strengthening sub-component was added to address some of the key weaknesses of INDI and
focused, in particular, on the need for a national indigenous land data-base.

·        Component 3 (Infrastructural Development: Rural Roads). Component 3 remained unchanged.

·        Component 4 (Institutional Development). Component 4 was slightly expanded and more focused
on institutional strengthening at the local level, including the creation of municipal Secretariats for
Development and the Environment.

·        Component 5 (Pilot Agricultural Credit).        This component was evaluated as not sufficiently
effective nor well linked to other project activities, and its activities were discontinued.

·        Component 6 (Community Rural Investments). The eligibility criteria for Component 6 were
enhanced to target more effectively the poorest populations and under-represented groups ­ women and
indigenous populations ­ as well as to increase the participation of local organizations in the selection
process.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no assessment by the Quality Assurance Group (since the project predates the Bank's QER
process). The project's quality at entry is considered unsatisfactory given that the original project design
was too complex and unrealistic with respect to policy and institutional reform and the decentralization
agenda was partially outside of the project's control. The project followed an integrated rural development
(IRD) approach that today seems overly complex. Given the limited operational options at the time in
Paraguay, this project tried to address too wide a range of issues. In hindsight, the design seems
overburdened, although this was later simplified and more focused following the restructuring. In addition,
there was no economic analysis carried out nor baseline data collected, and very few performance impact
indicators were defined, which seriously handicapped later project monitoring and evaluation.

While the project design was very cognizant of institutional weakness as a major risk faced by all projects
in Paraguay and took a series of steps to address these issues, the evaluation of the MTR concluded that the
initial project institutional implementation arrangements did not perform as expected due to the attempt to
simultaneously strengthen weak institutions, decentralize and coordinate many institutions and agencies. In
addition, institutional reforms expected to be accomplished under a related IDB program showed
disappointing results.

More positively, the project's objectives responded to urgent natural resource management and poverty
issues in rural Paraguay. The project correctly focused on an extremely dynamic sub-region of Eastern
Paraguay where the country's richest agricultural soils are found and where agricultural growth and
colonization were contributing to increasing deforestation and serious agro-environmental problems.

The project's initial strategy to limit activities to two Departments was consistent with a plan to pilot and
subsequently scale-up activities. It was based on the premise that the project would assist Paraguay to
further develop knowledge and experience with sustainable agriculture, strengthen the institutional
framework and acquire sectoral experience in implementing externally-funded projects before further


                                                       - 5 -

expanding the undertaking. Bank involvement proved catalytic in the definition of a new approach to the
use of natural resources in Paraguay which is forming the basis of a scaled-up follow-up operation, a loan
that will shortly be negotiated.

The project design took into account many relevant lessons, and project components were linked to the
project's objectives. Four main lessons from the Bank's previous involvement in the agricultural sector in
Paraguay were reflected in the project design and include the need to better seek ways to address: (i) the
recurring institutional weaknesses; (ii) weak research and extension; (iii) the lack of farmer organizations;
and (iv) the scant attention paid to natural resource conservation. International lessons were also considered
with special focus on the microcatchment approach developed under the Bank operation - The Natural
Resource Management Project - in the State of Paraná in Brazil.

The project was consistent with previous Bank work elsewhere in the region and in Paraguay to support the
country's shift from an extensive model of agricultural expansion to growth through intensification with
emphasis placed on sustainable agriculture within a framework of natural resource management and
environmental protection. The project directly addressed the Bank strategic priorities that included: (i)
improving the government's knowledge base; (ii) promoting the rational management of natural resources;
(iii) improving the institutional capacity of the sector; and (iv) improving the productivity and well-being of
smallholders.

The project was a pioneer in addressing safeguard issues, particularly with regards to indigenous people
and general stakeholder participation. The project's Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) was
built on lessons learned at the time. In retrospect, the IPDP was overly broad and dependent on a very weak
agency, INDI, and operating agreements with ministries that lacked commitment to the project.
Nonetheless, the land regularization and support for productive activities sub-components were well
designed and have provided positive benefits as well as lessons for follow-up operations.

In summary, institutional problems coupled with counterpart financing difficulties and numerous changes
in government appointments - for example, there were 13 different Ministers of Agriculture during the
project - significantly delayed the early period of project implementation. Although the restructured project
gained momentum, the project needed almost twelve rather than eight years to be satisfactorily completed.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the numerous problems confronted during implementation provide
valuable experience and knowledge that will prove useful for improved policy making as well as for future
rural development initiatives.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The project's objectives have largely been achieved. As a result of the project, improved natural resource
management and more sustainable approaches to agriculture are now an accepted paradigm in Paraguay
while participatory methodologies for decision-making and working with small farmers and indigenous
people are more commonplace. These achievements are remarkable considering that Paraguay was at an
early stage with regards to environmental matters in general (and sustainable agriculture and protected
areas in particular), and that institutional capacity-building at the local level was needed when the project
was begun. In terms of documentation, the ICR draws on project monitoring and evaluation in addition to



                                                       - 6 -

the studies conducted during 2004 and 2005. Most data and many important observations were also derived
from the Government's final evaluation report. Project outputs are described in Section 4.2, and
performance indicators are listed in Annex 1.

Objective A - To establish the institutional framework necessary to deal with the major agricultural and
natural resource problems of the project area.

The project partially achieved this ambitious objective. Today, more sustainable approaches to agriculture
and natural resource protection are better mainstreamed through (a) increased coordination of
environmentally-sound agricultural practices within MAG and among different projects, and (b) by the
establishment of the national environmental agency - the Secretariat for Environment (SEAM) - and related
agencies at the municipal level. In early project implementation, the design sought to strengthen the
institutional framework within MAG at the national level, and then to decentralize natural resource
management by establishing new regional organizations such as the CICAR and the CRAE. It is worth
noting that this decentralized design was also linked to the IDB PROMODAF program that was supporting
the restructuring of MAG at the time (and which included the creation of the CICAR and the CRAE as well
as similar agencies throughout the country). However, the new set-up was an overly abrupt departure from
the traditional centralized decision-making system. It remained vertically run rather than decentralized and
was not consolidated in MAG due to continued institutional instability and frequent ministry changes.

After the MTR, the project more successfully broadened the institutional framework by focusing
institutional support and capacity building at the local level. Specifically, this provided more support to
activities being carried out by local and municipal entities and decreased the role of national ministries per
se (e.g., no longer focusing on capacity building for the unsuccessful regional entities, CICAR and
CRAE). Local governments, as required by the project, established development and environmental
secretariats that became important instruments for promoting conservation and appropriate natural
resource management. Such gains are likely to be sustainable in the future.

In terms of the implementation arrangements, greater agility was also gained when the project
implementation arrangements were further streamlined within the MAG. In addition, following the MTR,
targeted technical assistance was provided in support of the weaker institutions linked the project, such as
INDI.

In summary, the project introduced an unprecedented level of decentralization in the agricultural sector in
Paraguay and helped to establish the local-level institutional framework necessary to address major
agricultural and natural resource issues in the project area. When combined with the higher profile roles for
communities and municipalities, as well as project-generated committees and associations, these activities
also greatly contributed to fulfilling Objective D (see below) of increasing the direct participation of local
populations. As predicted by the SAR, addressing institutional weaknesses was the main challenge of the
project. Despite problems, it is clear that a great deal was accomplished.

Objective B - To generate information through research and implement an area-wide system of natural
resource protection.

The project achieved this objective, particularly when it was restructured and more precisely focused after
the MTR. In terms of research, the relatively successful project strategy was to adapt and disseminate
existing technologies as part of elaborating and implementing microcatchment and farm management plans.
With regards to protected areas, the project successfully carried out a series of activities to establish and
consolidate the San Rafael Park within the limitations set by the undefined legal status of the area. Most


                                                      - 7 -

importantly, experiences generated from this project are providing an important foundation and lessons
learned for the current preparation of a Global Environmental Facility (GEF) operation for protected area
biodiversity conservation.

Objective C - To assist small farmers in the establishment of sustainable, diversified agricultural
production systems and conservation.

This objective was achieved. After the MTR, remarkable progress was made in terms of formulating and
implementing microcatchment and farm management plans as well as IRC sub-projects that focused on
income generation by means of sustainable production. There was considerable adoption of conservationist
agricultural practices, such as green fertilizer, contour lines, soil de-compaction and reforestation. A
longitudinal beneficiary survey that was carried out in a sample of seven targeted microcatchments over the
2000-2005 period clearly demonstrates the widespread adoption of these conservation practices and
significant improvements in productivity. For example, average yields of major crops increased in most
microcatchments by more than 20 percent on average, including improvements in soybean yields by 20
percent, cotton by 11 percent, wheat by 7 percent, maize by 15 percent, cassava by 25 percent and rice by
44 percent. The best results were found in the microcatchments areas (Feliciano and Ponderosa) where a
pilot activity, funded from a PHRD grant, preceded (in 1992) the implementation of the project itself.
There was also an increase in the cultivated area, which together with yield increases, caused overall output
to increase. As a result, all farmers increased their sales (minus one microcatchment) by an average of 26
percent while their capital also augmented; these further indicate a trend towards market-oriented
agriculture. In addition, under the project, MAG, for the first time, provided culturally-appropriate
agricultural and conservation extension to indigenous communities facing acute difficulties due to relative
inexperience with sedentary agriculture and severe land and natural resource limitations on traditional
adaptations; these experiences are also providing valuable lessons learned for the design of the follow-on
operation.

However, less progress was made in terms of diversification. Very favorable prices for traditional
commercial commodities, especially soybeans, during the period of project implementation provided
incentives to expand these crops and disincentives to experiment with alternatives. For example, between
2000 and 2005, the average amount of farmland planted with traditional commercial crops - including
wheat, soybeans, sunflowers and canola - increased by 120 percent, whereas the amount planted with 23
other crops decreased by 31 percent. This situation reflects producers' rational decision-making, and a need
for further applied research on the commercial potential of alternative crops.

Objective D - To encourage the direct participation of the local population in project implementation.

This objective was achieved. The participatory methodology adopted by the project was pioneering in the
Paraguayan context and presented major challenges to both technical staff and communities at the
beginning of the project since they were not accustomed to working this way.

Overall, the social capital created by the project was one of its most outstanding and positive aspects. For
example, the competencies achieved by the self-governing and participatory neighborhood organizations
formed under the project, such as the Local Natural Resource Management Groups (JVCRN, Juntas
Vecinales para la Conservacion de Recursos Naturales), enabled them to communicate and interact more
effectively with municipal and departmental governmental entities. They actually administered and
managed the funds destined for the microcatchment areas, a first for Paraguay. Interviews conducted
repeatedly emphasized that communities perceived that this project allowed neighborhood organizations to
successfully discuss, negotiate and find solutions to their problems with government in an unprecedented


                                                     - 8 -

way. The project also stimulated the establishment of municipal environmental secretariats which, in turn,
helped place environmental issues as central and important for communities, municipalities and the
departments.

Moreover, the project established a Regional Operational Committee (COR) under component 1 that was
another vibrant mechanism for participation and empowerment; the COR not only discussed problems and
solutions with respect to microcatchment areas but also prioritized investment needs and had an important
role in the screening and selection of sub-projects. In addition, after the project's restructuring,
Development Committees (CODES) were established under Component 6, which fostered large beneficiary
participation and transparency of investment decision-making process.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Agricultural Development (US$20.8 million, 35.0 percent of total project cost)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was considered key for the achievement of the project's objectives since it directly
promoted the sustainable increase of farmer production and income. The component reached over 13,000
farm families (as against a target of 7,900) in an area that was 75 percent larger than the original project
area. The component had four sub-components.

4.2.1 Agricultural production and natural resources management subcomponent:

The sub-component was designed to address the key obstacles to appropriate natural resource management
that included: increasing emphasis on mono-cropping; the deterioration of natural resources as a
consequence of deforestation and inappropriate agricultural practices; the rapid decline in productivity
related to the deterioration of soils; and the poor coverage of agricultural support services. The
sub-component aimed to assist small farmers in restructuring the productive process towards sustainable,
conservation-oriented agriculture. Fifty critical microcatchment areas (microcuencas) were targeted for
improving natural resource management activities with the goal of designing detailed management plans for
each one (to be prepared in a participatory manner and implemented with the support of the Local Natural
Resource Management Groups - JVCRNs). Also included was technical assistance, extension and research
services at microcatchment area levels for preparing and implementing the natural resources management
plans in addition to financial resources (through the Natural Resources Conservation Fund - FOCORN) to
implement the plans.

With assistance from the project's extension agents, farmers organized themselves under the participatory
schemes foreseen in the project - JVCRNs - and prepared microcatchment areas and individual farm
management plans; the implementation was financed by the FOCORN. As shown in the table below, the
component exceeded its original targets by developing and implementing 51 Microcatchment Management
Plans and 13,077 Individual Farm Management and Investment Plans that covered an area of 264,567
hectares.


                         Activity                       Unit         Target                Target         Actual
                                                                Original Target        Revised Target
Microcatchment Area Management Plans(*)                  #               50                    30               51
Individual Farm Management and Investments Plans(*)      #            7,900                 3,600           13,077



                                                    - 9 -

Area covered (ha)                                          ha        150,000                  200,600         264,567
Community Investments Plans(*)                              #           ns                      90               505
Municipal Investment Plans(*)                               #           ns                      54                41
Agro-forestry Systems(*)                                    #           ns                      60               860
Demonstration Farms(*)                                      #           ns                      150              408
       (*) developed and implemented
         ns : not specified

The table shows that, as a result of mid-term project restructuring, the target number of plans to be
implemented and farmers to be assisted during the remaining two years of scheduled implementation period
at the time was reduced. However, the consolidation of the operational strategy and a longer-than-planned
implementation period after the restructuring allowed the project to exceed the sub-component's main
original targets. In addition, the sub-component exceeded the targets specified for the first time in the MTR
in the redesign for the preparation of Community Investment Plans (505 prepared and implemented as
against a target of 90) and nearly met the target for Municipal Investment Plans (41 prepared and
implemented as against a target of 54). Under this sub-component, agro-forestry systems were also
implemented in 860 farms along with the establishment of 408 demonstration farms. These outputs were
particularly critical for disseminating the project strategy.

Implementation of the sub-component, which represented 31 percent of total project expenditures
and provided assistance to over 13,000 small farmers, is rated Highly Satisfactory. All targets, except
for the Municipal Investment Plans, were exceeded abundantly and laid the ground work for the sustainable
management of natural resources in the area.

Just as important, the sub-component also supported the first experience with successful transfer of
resources directly to beneficiaries. The adequate training and control for the effective and transparent
participatory administration of funds at the local level, implemented by the project, guaranteed the
successful transfer of US$10.5 million - 17.1 percent of total project costs - to beneficiaries and
municipalities.

In addition, as part of the expansion of the target area authorized by the Bank in 2003, the sub-component
successfully tested the implementation of the technical strategy on five more microcatchment areas located
in two new Departments (Concepción and San Pedro) demonstrating a maturation of the operational
capacity of the project to quickly scale-up its activities. Altogether, achievement of these targets took
approximately two-and-a-half additional years of effective implementation - 10.5 years instead of the eight
years foreseen at appraisal. Only the implementation of the municipal plans, directed mostly to the
improvement of rural roads, faced difficulties. This was due to (i) an initial limited interest on the part of
beneficiary farmers who regarded this type of investment as having little direct benefit and, later, (ii) to
poor motivation on the part of some local authorities to adhere to procurement guidelines once the plans
were developed which led to a 24 percent shortfall of the actual target.

4.2.2 Forestry and environmental conservation sub-component:

As originally designed, this sub-component would achieve its objectives via three programs of action:
Forestry Research; Environmental Control (environmental legislation enforcement); and Support for
Protected Areas.

Implementation of this sub-component is rated Moderately Satisfactory given the achievement of the
reduced goals set at the MTR. Initial progress was slow, and by the time of the MTR it was clear that the



                                                      - 10 -

time and administrative steps required to fully establish the San Rafael Park as a protected area - the main
activity planned under the Protected Areas program - had been underestimated. Given the modest progress
shown and the short time remaining, the government and the Bank agreed to discontinue the programs as
originally designed and to focus the sub-component activities to support the development of the San Rafael
National Park that had already been created through the law of Protected Natural Areas (Áreas Silvestres
Protegidas) in 1992, since it was classified as a major priority for environmental protection in the Alto
Paraná eco-region.

The sub-component contributed significantly to the Park's development. Such examples include:
completing the cadastre of private landholdings (catastro parcelario) within the Park; formulating an
Environmental Education and Training Plan; establishing a Management Committee and a Park Volunteers
Body; and carrying out a Biological and Forestry Inventory and a Participatory Rural Diagnostic. Further
activities within the Park area were not planned because it could not be classified as a National Reserve by
the Secretariat of Environment (SEAM). This resulted from (a) the refusal of private owners within the
Park boundaries to accept the restrictions imposed on land use and the compensatory measures offered, and
(b) the absence of regulations needed to implement the Protected Natural Areas law. However, after the
status of the Park was changed to that of Reserve Area of Restricted Use (Área de Reserva de Uso
Restringido) in 1992, the project continued to contribute to the preservation of the area through the
implementation of four microcatchment area management plans within the buffer zone. These plans helped
reduce illegal incursions into the proposed protected area by neighboring smallholders.

4.2.3 Training, social organization and technical assistance subcomponent:

The Training and Social Organization programs supported the development of local organizations,
particularly those of agricultural producers, which provided the backbone to the decentralization effort at
the local level. The Technical Assistance program concentrated on agro-industry, credit and marketing
activities.

Implementation of this sub-component is rated Satisfactory. Under this sub-component, the project
created and assisted 411 producers' committees and provided ample training to beneficiaries (including
women's groups) on production techniques and post-production processing and marketing activities.
Revised targets set for producer-related activities were exceeded. All activities supported under this
sub-component were considered crucial to ensuring the adoption of the promoted technologies.

                              Activity                            Original Target      Revised Target       Actual
Producers committees (*)                                      #         350                   250            411
District Commissions (*)                                      #         ns                    279            279
Municipal Secretariats for Development and Environment (*)    #         ns                    31             31
Women's Groups assisted (*)                                   #         ns                    64             150
Cooperatives assisted                                         #         27                    12              8
Training courses for Farmers -field training                  #         ns                    456           1,363
Training courses for Extension Agents                         #         ns                    50             35
Producers Groups trained in post-production activities:       #         ns                    480            741
 - food processing                                            #         ns                    60             73
- marketing techniques                                        #         ns                    120            173
- trading in local markets                                    #         ns                    300            595

Organized and established (*)
         ns : not specified



                                                       - 11 -

Three of the outcomes were lower than expected mainly because of an over-estimation of the goals. In the
case of the training of extension agents, only 35 training events were required to cover the needs of all of
the extension offices and staff in the project area. Meanwhile, only eight cooperatives met the requirements
to qualify for assistance, which mandated that a substantial number of their members live in the targeted
microcatchment areas. Finally, the target set for the organization and establishment of District
Commissions also proved overly optimistic; their creation faced political problems that led to a strategy
change after the restructuring which focused, instead, on the creation of Development and Environment
Secretariats at the municipal level as a better way to support sustainable local development.

In summary, outputs from this sub-component were substantial and helped develop institutional
capacity at the local level that laid the basis for further decentralization of decision-making and
implementation processes for resources management and development. It must be pointed out that
numerous administrative changes occurred at MAG during project implementation which impeded the
maintenance of a consistently high level of commitment and ownership of the project as well as the
development of a medium-to-long term perspective on the goals. The maturing of the institutional capacity
at the local level during the second half of the implementation period played a fundamental role in
safeguarding the institutional memory of project goals and therefore ensured its continuity during difficult
times.

4.2.4 The Natural Resources Conservation Fund Subcomponent (FOCORN):

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The FOCORN sub-component was designed as a pilot program to make available grant resources to
producers to encourage them to undertake on-farm, and in some cases inter-farm, investments to correct
damage caused by the indiscriminate incorporation of land into agricultural production. FOCORN was
originally designed to finance: (i) Farm Investment Plans that involved the promotion of technology to
conserve natural resources and sustain agricultural production; and (ii) Community Investment Plans to
address community problems such as water supply and water source protection, toxic material disposal,
machinery acquisition, etc. The restructuring of the project introduced a broader menu of conservationist
practices (including contour lines, soil de-compaction, liming, green fertilizing, no-till cropping, integrated
pest management, post-harvest management, and improved domestic/family livestock production, among
others) and a new category of investment projects involving municipal investments such as road
rehabilitation and nurseries. In addition, the participation of communities in the identification of problems
and the preparation of individual farm and community interventions was emphasized. All of these
modifications were detailed in an Operation Manual that provided the necessary guidance for managing the
Fund and technical assistance activities.

As was noted in subcomponent 1.1, FOCORN financed the implementation of 13,077 Individual Farm, 505
Community and 41 Municipal Investment Plans. Although no targets were specified at appraisal, since the
level of activities would be determined by the demand from the Plans, outputs are considered to have been
substantial. The main activities financed included contour lines (2,608 km), terraces (6,258 km), soil
de-compaction (10,832 ha), liming (4,312 ha), no-till land preparation (4,084 ha), green fertilizing (8,453
ha), agro forestry ( 2,585 ha), reforestation (2,219 ha), metallic silos (6,270 units), latrines (6,861 units),
community shops (127) and the design (251 km) and construction (56 km) of conservationist roads.

The implementation of this sub-component is rated Satisfactory, as its outputs clearly show that
FOCORN was an efficient tool for the financing of natural resources management in the context of


                                                     - 12 -

community needs. Despite the many achievements of this sub-component in relation to the sustainable
management of natural resources and the adoption of new practices at the microcatchment area level, there
were several problems that were not duly adverted because of the lack of a more adequate monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system; while the SAR assigned this task to the Planning Directorate (DGP) of MAG,
the DGP failed to assume this responsibility. Other problems identified for this subcomponent included:
political influences in the selection of some microcatchment areas; limited availability of resources for
providing technical assistance at the farm level because of the need to speed up after the project redesign in
2000; and lack of financial analysis in deciding among technologies, all of which raised concerns about the
opportunity to benefit farmers. More positively, a relatively independent implementation unit, DEP, was
established within MAG in 2000 to replace the original implementation structure that involved the
unsuccessful use of MAG's extension structure. DEP successfully hired consultants and provisioned
technical assistance, and financial support finally achieved the desired service levels. The larger efficiency
of this approach, as well as the maturation of operational capacity of the project, were demonstrated by its
increased output within the original area after 2000 and by the successful testing of the operational and
technical strategy within the expanded area (Departments of Concepción, San Pedro, Caaguazú and North
of Itapúa) starting in 2003. The efficiency of this approach was twofold: (i) in the delivery of high quality,
stable, technical assistance support and (ii) financially - at less than US$90.0 per beneficiary family per
year, the cost of delivery was about 60 percent lower than that provided by other MAG-supported private
technical assistance through other programs.

Component 2: Indigenous Communities (US$2.9 million, 4.8 percent of total project cost)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was originally designed to provide assistance to the remaining indigenous population of the
project area, an estimated 1,285 families in 27 Mbya Guaraní, Ava Guaraní or Chiripa, and Ache
communities (all of the Tupí Guaraní language family). It included sub-components for Land Security,
Agricultural Production, Health and Education. After the MTR, this component was somewhat revised to
ensure legal technical assistance for land issues, to broaden the outreach of agricultural technical assistance
and to add some institution strengthening activities for INDI.

The project's work with indigenous communities, despite some drawbacks, is considered successful
and was an important first for Paraguay especially in terms of the participatory approaches used and
MAG's commitment to indigenous people as a beneficiary group. The project correctly focused on two
crucial elements, land tenure and agricultural production. Indigenous people in Eastern Paraguay can no
longer practice their traditional adaptations as a result of severe land and natural resource limitations and
must therefore develop new approaches to subsistence activities and carry out income-generating activities
to meet increasing cash needs. Health and education goals were less successfully addressed; these may have
been more effectively implemented in another operation had it been available. Lessons learned from this
component have already been incorporated into the follow-up operation.

One of the main lessons is that technical assistance providers who work with indigenous people must
respect the processes of indigenous development. To achieve this, the project must adapt to the needs and
demands that arise from communities themselves without imposing pre-established packages, timing or
modalities of work that are foreign to the communities. Productive activities developed under the
Component followed these principles and were generally more successful than IRC sub-projects that were
more top-down.




                                                     - 13 -

Land Security Sub-component. This sub-component is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The original
targets for this sub-component were for INDI, with the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR), to support the
regularization of indigenous lands in Eastern Paraguay through the acquisition of 6,515 ha and the titling of
another 6,343 ha of indigenous lands. Under the project, 7,656 ha were acquired (18 percent more than the
original target) for 17 communities (discounting the 3,546 ha under dispute and with unclear titles in
Formoso/Sto. Tomas and Arroyo Claro) and 7,047 ha were titled for 15 communities (11 percent more
than the original target). It is commendable that the outcome exceeded the project targets. Challenges
included the institutional debilities of INDI and, in particular, its weak land regularization capacity. For
example, land purchasing had to be executed with counterpart funds allocated by Congress while sufficient
attention was not paid to resolving conflict situations until project restructuring. Nonetheless, the lessons
learned have proved valuable for the subsequent land regularization pilot being funded under a Japanese
Social Development Fund (JSDF) grant and for the proposed follow-up operation.

Agricultural Production Sub-component. This sub-component is rated as Satisfactory. It aimed to
increase and diversify agricultural production in order to improve nutrition, increase incomes and reduce
the dependency of indigenous people on paid work. Targets were again surpassed. Fifty-eight indigenous
communities (cf. the target of 50 communities) and 1,600 families (cf. the target of 1,285) benefited from
agricultural technical assistance and input distributions whereby the average cultivated area per family
increased from 0.25 ha. to 1.50 ha and crops were diversified; some communities were even beginning to
produce organic crops for sale. This sub-component was a special challenge since it was the first time that
governmental extension agents had worked with indigenous populations. Data indicates that the experiences
were positive as a result of high agent motivation and dedication, their involvement in the daily life of the
communities and their ability to adjust assistance according to the distinct socio-cultural realities of the
three ethnicities.

Health Sub-component. This sub-component is rated as Unsatisfactory. The aim was to improve the
health of indigenous people in mother-child care, the prevention and control of highly prevalent diseases,
basic sanitation, health education and the training of local health workers. Under the project, 35 local health
workers were trained, some basic infrastructure was provided to health posts and some training and
primary care was provided in 50 communities. Nonetheless, this ambitious sub-component fell short of its
aims largely because of the lack of clear institutional responsibility that was split among MAG, INDI and
the Ministry of Health. A more effective strategy might have been to contract NGOs or other local entities
already delivering services, or to ensure indigenous health services within the context of a health operation
as is currently underway in Paraguay.

Education Sub-component. This sub-component is rated as Unsatisfactory. The aim was to promote
both primary and adult education to be implemented by the Ministry of Education (MEC) in conjunction
with INDI. Under the project, some primary education initiatives were undertaken in 26 communities with
an estimated 100 students benefited and eight teachers trained. A training center was also built. As was the
case with the Health subcomponent, this ambitious sub-component fell short of its aims and lacked a lead
institution. A more effective strategy might have been to work with NGOs and other organizations that
were already carrying out educational activities with indigenous people using linguistically-appropriate
approaches.

Institutional Strengthening of INDI Sub-component.         This sub-component is rated as Satisfactory.
Given INDI's institutional weakness, a modest institutional strengthening sub-component was introduced
after the MTR. It focused primarily on the provision of computer equipment and the development of a land
tenure database at INDI. The land tenure database was partly developed, and follow-up work on it is being
carried out through the JSDF pilot.


                                                    - 14 -

Component 3: Infrastructural Development Component (US$17.7 million, 29.5 percent of total
project cost)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The objective of the component was to realign, rebuild, improve and maintain existing roads to reduce their
negative environmental effects and to support agro-ecological land-use zoning. A total of 445 km was to be
rebuilt and maintained during the project. The component was to be implemented by the Ministry of Public
Works (MOPC). The maintenance program was to be applied to roads reconstructed or improved under the
project and would be the joint responsibility of the MOPC and the MOPC-supported Local Roads
Committees (Juntas Viales Locales - JVLs) formed in the selected areas by Municipalities and community
representatives.

A total of 396 km were rehabilitated, including some paved with stones - empedrado - (for lower
maintenance cost), and 366 km received maintenance. The average cost per km was US$40,000, which is
consistent with the unit cost for similar road construction projects in the region. However, the component
costs were higher than originally planned because MOPC: (i) included roads that were of higher technical
standards than those foreseen in the original design and located outside the microcatchments' management
concentration area; and (ii) introduced technical changes during implementation without previous
consultation with MAG and the Bank. After discussions with the Bank, the modifications introduced to the
original contracts were approved, but the government had to assume the additional cost. With respect to
road maintenance, rehabilitation was delayed and the machinery for maintenance purchased by the project
became available before reconstruction work started; MOPC re-focused maintenance away from the roads
to be reconstructed by the project and utilized the machinery to carry out maintenance of roads which fed
into the road segments which were to be rehabilitated. This resulted in lower-than anticipated maintenance
of some sections of the project roads once they were rehabilitated in addition to their faster deterioration
and reduced impact.

Overall, implementation of the component is considered Satisfactory. Because of delays, the road
component was implemented independently of Component 1, which was contrary to the planned strategy to
reduce environmental impacts. Nevertheless, it made a significant contribution to improving transportation
within the project area.

Component 4: Institutional Development (US$4.7 million, 7.8 percent of total project cost)

IRC Rating: Unsatisfactory

Since institutional weakness was acknowledged as a risk in the SAR, this component was designed to
provide inputs necessary to bridge the identified capacity gaps and simultaneously contribute to the
decentralization of MAG. This component also supported the project implementation arrangements that
within MAG included: DINCAP, for overall project coordination and management; UCTAP, to operate at
the level of the project area; CICAR, to channel research and extension services to be delivered under the
project; and CRAE, to ensure coordination of all environmental protection-related project activities. A
Regional Operational Committee (COR) was established to encourage and promote inter-institutional
cooperation at the regional level.

At the MTR, given MAG's slow progress toward strengthening and decentralization, it was decided to shift
the institutional strengthening priority away from MAG and to the local and municipal organizations.


                                                   - 15 -

Subsequently, local institution strengthening activities were reasonably successful.           For example,
Secretariats for Development and the Environment were established in 31 municipalities while the COR
and the San Rafael Park Management Committee were reactivated. A renewed emphasis was placed on the
development of the JVCRNs and the producers' organizations that set the basis for a sustainable,
decentralized and participatory development model which was later adopted by the follow-up Sustainable
Rural Development Project under preparation.

In terms of implementation arrangements, UCTAP was replaced by a more streamlined directorate, the
DEP, initially under DINCAP and later (2002) working directly with the Ministry. CICAR and CRAE
were folded into the DEP, which became the project management unit as well as directly responsible for
Components 1, 2, and 6. These new arrangements improved horizontal coordination and provided a great
impetus to the project, although some difficulties continued such as a lack of a sectoral/decentralization
policy, high turnover of personnel, and frequent changes of ministers and of project directors.

The component's performance after the redesign is considered Moderately Satisfactory. During the first
years of implementation, this newly-created institutional structure was simultaneously used for the
Ministry's regular programs as opposed to the project's priorities. After the restructuring, the activities
focused more at the local level with less attention to MAG; this provided the necessary local and central
institutional context for improved implementation of the project's natural resources management activities
and the achievement of its economic improvement goals. However, the original MAG capacity-building
objective was not met, most likely due to the lack of political commitment to undertake major changes
within public sector institutions to improve transparency, accountability and efficiency. It merits repeating
that there were 13 Minister changes at MAG during project implementation. Such a high turnover rate
made it difficult to maintain a high level of project commitment and ownership, and further impeded the
development of a medium to long-term perspective on the goals to be achieved; project continuity during
the second half of implementation was ensured largely due to strengthened institutional capacity at the local
level.

Component 5: Pilot Agricultural Credit (US$2.7 million, 4.5 percent of total project cost)

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory

The aim of this component was to provide credit to 5,500 small farmers unlikely to qualify for other loans
to implement the sustainable production systems promoted by the project. The Smallholder Credit Agency (
Crédito Agrícola de Habilitación, CAH) was designated to implement the component.

While approximately half of the original amount of funds destined for this activity was used for small loans
to support investments in productive activities by some 3,500 small farmers - 63 percent of the target -
implementation did not proceed as planned and the objective of this activity was not met. Implementation
demonstrated a lack of coordination between the provision of credit and the preparation of farm investment
proposals under Component 1, which proceeded on different tracks without fully overlapping as intended.
The Bank repeatedly attempted to correct this situation without success, and US$2.4 million was disbursed
in sub-loans before the Bank canceled the component at the MTR.

Component 6: Rural Community Investments (IRC) (US$11.3 million, 18.8 percent of total project
cost)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory




                                                   - 16 -

This component, which was added to the project at the end of 1996, aimed to support productive
investments at the community level in Departments with a high incidence of rural poverty to increase farm
and non-farm family income for a segment of the rural population highly exposed to social and economic
hardship. It was financed by reallocating existing resources. A Technical Support Unit (UAT) to coordinate
the activities was established initially under the DINCAP and later under the DEP. The geographical
coverage of the activities was initially limited to three Departments (Cordillera, Caaguazú and Caazapá)
and then expanded to nine during the first phase of implementation (1997-2000). After project restructuring
in 2000, the second phase covered ten Departments (2001-2006). After evaluating the first phase, it was
decided to better focus the eligibility criteria to more effectively target the poorest populations in the IRC
project area as well as to increase the participation of local organizations in the selection process. To this
end, the Work Plan for the second phase of the IRC targeted rural areas with the lowest poverty ranking; at
least 20 percent of the IRC funding was earmarked for microprojects in indigenous areas with another 20
percent for microprojects to benefit female-headed households. To this end, the UAT was strengthened and
its personnel trained. In addition, committees at the departmental level (CODEs), with ample civil society
participation, were created to ensure a participatory and transparent selection of beneficiaries and
investment proposals.

The component made a significant and tangible contribution to the decentralization process as well as
to building and improving the capacity of target groups. The lessons learned from the implementation
of the first phase were incorporated in the restructuring and implemented during the second phase. These
were carried out through the creation of CODEs - the ear-marking of resources for under-represented
groups - and an improved mechanism of design and operation of sub-projects that allowed simultaneous
group and individual-level investments while maintaining the spirit of community work. In addition, this
component supported the transfer of resources directly to beneficiaries. The successful transfer of US$10.6
million - 17.2 percent of total project costs - to beneficiaries, with only minor problems of insufficient
documentation for fund use, helped demonstrate that the transparent and participatory administration of
funds at the local level is an important capacity building tool.

Altogether, the component financed 664 microprojects. US$3.25 million were spent during the first
phase on 266 microprojects that benefited 5,300 families. During the second phase, 398 microprojects were
implemented; the number of families benefited increased to 6,200, and the overall project cost increased to
US$3.9 million. The microprojects financed small irrigation infrastructure, non-tillage seeding equipment,
storage facilities and small processing plants, among others. Technical assistance was provided by
independent extension agents.

Despite this and the aforementioned impressive numbers, the implementation of the component was
characterized by delays, a lack of continuity and the "bunching" of investments towards the end of each
phase. These led to lower-than-expected overall results in spite of the good output level and the many
performance-enhancing operational changes that were introduced throughout implementation.

Several implementation problems contributed to this outcome: (i) the flow of funds was slow, mainly
because beneficiary groups experienced difficulties in completing the required group certification
documentation - there were also problems in adequately documenting their expenditures from the first
tranche of disbursed funds; (ii) insufficient technical assistance; (iii) excessive bureaucracy leading to
delayed availability of the funds to meet commitments made with the CODEs and the extension agency
(DEAg); and (iv) the methodology was not adequately tailored to work most effectively with culturally
differentiated target groups (e.g., indigenous peoples).

Actions taken to overcome problems during the second phase included the addition of extension agents from


                                                     - 17 -

DEAg, specialized in organizing producers and in specific production items, to complement the private
technical assistance provided through the microprojects. The UAT was strengthened and the professionals
involved at the different levels (UAT, CODEs, private technical assistance agents) were trained in order to
improve the microproject design, implementation and monitoring. Inter-institutional coordination was
strengthened to promote larger participation of relevant agencies, MAG directorates and local authorities,
which enhanced and facilitated implementation.

Despite these actions, implementation during the second phase continued to be slow. Initially, this resulted
from the need to update the Operational Manual to guide implementation and to properly document
expenses made during the first phase while, later, because of continued difficulties of beneficiary groups in
completing the group documentation required by law. Ultimately, slow implementation progress led to the
cancellation of US$3.0 million in loan funds destined to the 2003 component. Additional problems
included: (i) insufficient follow-up of the activities of the first phase during the second phase; (ii) the delay
of effective implementation of the second phase; and (iii) the concentration of most investments during the
last year of implementation which led to uncertainty about investment impact. According to a rapid and
small sample (5 percent) survey on the performance of Component 6 carried out in July 2006, 74 percent of
microprojects still had their equipment and machinery in proper operating condition. The same survey
noted a degree of skepticism on the part of recipients with respect to income and employment generation
from microprojects. Moreover, 38 percent of those interviewed felt that they were provided with a
pre-existing "menu" of sub-project ideas when they would have preferred it to be more demand-driven. All
of this shows that the despite actions taken to increase DEAg's involvement, the extension approach
utilized by the component was not efficient and lacked the focus on capacity building and long-term
involvement that was used by component 1. Lessons learned from the ICR are being carefully evaluated to
ensure a better design in the follow-up operation; continued support will be provided to the communities to
enhance long term sustainability of the investments already made.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

During project appraisal, an economic analysis was not carried out for the project.                However, a
post-project estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR) was carried out based on limited baseline data
available in the SAR, records of project outcomes, and data collected through interviews and from
technicians. The analysis for the whole project was based on total investment costs and the results achieved
by Components 1, 3 and 6. For components 1 and 6 the evaluation considered benefits through aggregate
farm and community microproject investments. These benefits included increased production and lower
farm costs that resulted from decreased soil erosion and soil fertility loss. The cost stream for the economic
analysis of these components is based on three elements: (i) on-farm and off-farm investment and recurrent
costs (all); (ii) extension to farmers; and (iii) community development costs and training. Given the policy
reforms and the opening of the economy, the Guaraní rate of exchange used is the market rate, and
domestic prices are considered to be generally in line with border economic values. For Component 3, the
evaluation considered benefits from lower road maintenance costs and vehicle operation costs from
investments made in the rehabilitation of 396 km of roads.

Under these conservative assumptions, project investments generated a net present value (NPV) of US$
11.2 million with an overall ERR of 19.2 percentage.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial analysis was carried out for the project or its components in the SAR. However, available data



                                                      - 18 -

for the microcatchments ­Component 1­ with a longer intervention period show that yields grew notably
­26.4 percent on average­ for soybeans and other major crops, while expenditures in fertilizers and other
inputs fell by 35 percent or approximately US$65.0 per hectare/year. Other relevant information on overall
improvement in crop yields for all microcatchments can be found in Annex 1. From this data a financial
rate of return for a representative aggregate model portraying the average farm production system at the
end of the project was estimated as follows.

         Component 1           Financial Rate      Net Present        Incremental
                                 of Return        Value (NPV)         Income per
                                   (FRR)               (US$)        Beneficiary/Year
                                     (%)                                 (US$)
 Aggregate Model (1 family)         100.3              1,301             321


The above estimate does not take into account benefits derived from group investments by beneficiaries
under Component 1, such as grain storage and feed milling facilities, etc.

Likewise, the financial rate of return was estimated for a sample of different type of community
microprojects based on available financial flows data from the MTR and from the microprojects
implemented earlier during the second phase of Component 6, as shown in the following table:

         Component 6           Financial Rate      Net Present        Incremental
      Microproject type          of Return        Value (NPV)         Income per
                                   (FRR)               (US$)        Beneficiary/Year
                                     (%)                                 (US$)
 Poultry (10 families)               34.1              39,561            285
 Dairy (15 families)                 23.4              29,315            122
 Honey (10 families)                 22.9              26,013            137
 Irrigation (6 families)             67.1              77,096           1,073
 Grain Storage (6 families)          26.8              38,622            428


A detailed account of the economic and financial analysis is presented in Annex 3.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated as Modest due to a disappointing performance during the
project's early phase even factoring in a better-than-average outcome after the project was restructured. As
previously explained, the ambitious decentralized and multi-institutional arrangements originally envisioned
for the project were too abrupt a departure from the traditional centralized and vertical structures.
However, significant gains were made after the restructuring partially due to efforts expended on local-level
institutional capacity building and greater agility of implementation arrangements when these were further
streamlined within the MAG. Project restructuring redirected a major focus of institutional strengthening to
the local and municipal levels where it had a greater likelihood of success and longer-term sustainability.

MAG: The project had a positive impact on MAG, especially after 2000. In particular, this was evinced in
terms of what was learned about effective project implementation and, more broadly, MAG's expanding
experience and mainstreaming of participatory approaches to natural resource management. The UCTAP
and regional units (CICAR and CRAE) were replaced by a more streamlined and effective Project
Executive Directorate (DEP) which worked directly with the Ministry after 2002. DEP has functioned well.



                                                     - 19 -

Most importantly, MAG has progressively adopted and further mainstreamed more participatory and
sustainable approaches. While MAG still requires further institutional strengthening that will be addressed
in the follow-up operation, progress noted under this project includes increased awareness and acceptance
of the need to embrace and mainstream a paradigm for natural resource management, participatory
approaches to project design and implementation, and greater ownership of projects undertaken with
external financial support.

INDI: The project had a satisfactory impact on INDI. Given the scope of the activities undertaken, modest
institutional development impact on INDI contributed to the modernization of its indigenous recognition
and land regularization capacities in addition to its formation of a national indigenous land database. The
project also collaborated with the IDB institutional evaluation of INDI and its subsequent proposals for
reform. Although some progress was made, INDI remains a weak institution. The lessons learned have
been applied to the follow-up JSDF project for indigenous land regularization that will coordinate its
activities with the PARN follow-up operation.

Local and Municipal Levels: The project had a significant impact on the development of local community
and municipal institutional structures for sustainable local development. Under the project, large numbers
of self-governing and participatory neighborhood organizations were formed (JVCRN) that successfully
administered and managed funds and activities in microcatchment areas. The project also supported local
governments to establish environment and development secretariats in 31 municipalities. After the MTR,
the Regional Operating Committee (COR) and the San Rafael Management Committee were reactivated.
Many achievements during the second phase of the project are attributable to this strengthening of the local
and municipal sustainable development institutions.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Project implementation and outcomes are noteworthy given that this ambitiously designed project began
during a very early stage in Paraguay for environmental issues and sustainable agriculture. Weak
institutional capacity and little previous experience with participatory methodologies were among some of
its immaturities. Approved in early 1994, Loan Effectiveness was only achieved in July 1995. By 1998,
project implementation was significantly delayed. During the early period, the project suffered from an
overly-bureaucratic decision-making process while there was no focal point of implementation
responsibility. However, after the MTR, the GOP and the Bank agreed to undertake a series of significant
structural changes and project simplifications to speed up implementation. Subsequently, the pace of
implementation sped up, beneficiaries and local governments participated more actively in project
implementation and the institutional set-up was more efficient. This latter change effectively
counterbalanced the adverse effects of continued institutional instability within MAG. This was primarily
achieved by: (i) removing the highly complex "decentralized" - or more accurately "de-concentrated" -
institutional implementation arrangements which no longer had the necessary political support to be
operational; and (ii) by making the project more focused on the effective on-the-ground achievement of its
Development Objectives through its community work in microcatchments and IRC beneficiary groups.

Project financial and implementation performance was affected during the 1999­2003 period because
public finances in Paraguay were adversely affected by the financial crises in neighboring Brazil (1999)
and Argentina (2001) as well as by its own fiscal crisis in 2002. These factors along with unfavorable
weather and related poor harvests provoked a steep decline in government revenues from the agricultural



                                                     - 20 -

sector. The fiscal crisis resulted in the suspension of debt payments (both internal and external). Project
disbursements of counterpart funds were stopped temporarily in 2001 followed by the suspension of
disbursements by the Bank after the GOP defaulted on its payments.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Positive factors within the government control included MAG's realism and commitment to see the project
implemented despite the institutional instability. This was demonstrated by the agreement reached during
the MTR and subsequent restructuring and also through refocusing implementation towards on-the-ground
results and away from more complex goals related to the development of an improved, long-term focused,
institutional framework.

Negative factors included the frequent political changes during the project period. This included four
presidents, 13 MAG ministers and eight different DINCAP directors. The recurrent changes often resulted
in sectoral priority alterations in addition to other discontinuities that affected and delayed project
implementation.

The delay of more than 16 months between Board Approval and Loan Effectiveness reflected this
instability but was also caused by time required to establish new agencies called for in the project design
and the time required to sign the subsidiary agreements with partner institutions. In addition, there was
resistance on the part of some administrative MAG units to the innovative institutional framework and
project implementation strategy. Moreover, as various supervision missions observed, there was a lack of
coordination between MAG and the Ministry of Finance causing problems with financial flows and the
release of counterpart funds that caused implementation delays. Finally, despite formal operating
agreements, there was a lack of effective collaboration among the other institutions outside MAG sphere
that were participating in the project.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The original project implementation design tried to simultaneously carry out institutional strengthening,
create regional units, decentralize and coordinate many other institutions. The set-up was overly ambitious
from a technical point of view and unrealistic without having a firm and sustained commitment from MAG.
Given its own instability, MAG was unable to keep its commitment to the proposed changes. Following
project restructuring, the set-up was significantly simplified and the Project Executing Unit (DEP) was
established. The DEP demonstrated both satisfactory competence and reasonable diligence in managing the
different technical and fiduciary aspects of project implementation, particularly within the challenging
context described in 5.1 and 5.2 above. Their excellent management helped resolve many of the
aforementioned problems.

Although MAG has made progress with regard to mainstreaming the natural resources management and
extension approach promoted by the project, it still requires further strengthening of its Planning, Project
Coordination and Administration, and Administration Directorates. Enhanced strengthening will increase
MAG's effectiveness in the implementation and oversight of the different programs being carried out and
will further its contribution to the overarching policy framework for rural development. This will be
addressed by the proposed follow-up operation being prepared and will be coordinated with expected
institutional changes being proposed for review by Congress.




                                                    - 21 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project restructuring in 2000 resulted in a reduction in the total cost of the project from US$79.1
million to US$61.4 million and a reallocation among components (see Annex 2). Whereas the loan amount
was maintained at US$50.0 million, the national counterpart contribution was reduced. The projected and
actual costs and financing are shown in the following table while a detailed break down of costs by
component can be found in Annex 2:

      Stage          Total project       Loan         Government     Beneficiaries
                        Cost (*)          (*)               (*)            (*)

Appraisal                79.1            50.0             22.0            7.1
Restructuring            61.4            50.0              8.7            2.4
(2000)
Actual                   60.1            47.0            11.77           1.34



(*) US$ million


5.4.1 Financial Management:
Several FM supervision missions were carried out by the Regional FM team throughout the life of the
project. During a supervision mission conducted in 2001, a number of inappropriate FM practices,
including inadequate and delayed documentation, were identified and a number of allegations of misuse of
funds emerged (e.g., missing or inconsistent documentation, duplication of invoices, etc.). In particular, it
was found that resources had been granted to both the Fondo de Conservación de Recursos Naturales
(FOCORN) and to the Inversiones Rurales Comunitarias (IRC) component with no clear explanation as to
the reasons or the justifications for these transactions.

The Bank took immediate corrective actions by requesting the GOP to reconcile amounts in the Special
Account and to provide justification for past and outstanding expenditures. In addition, an action plan was
developed to mitigate the risks identified during the supervision mission, correct deficiencies and assure that
adequate financial management arrangements acceptable to the Bank be kept in place. Specifically, revised
funds flow arrangements, using UNDP as a financial agent, were adopted to continue to support project
implementation.

As a result of these actions, significant improvements were achieved in the financial management of the
project, which was then upgraded to satisfactory. By 2005, an adequate financial management system that
was capable of accurately recording and reporting project activities was in place. Flow of funds through the
UNDP system was effective and control over project expenditures improved.

5.4.2 Financial Audit:
Overall, the project's audit reports were generally submitted to the Bank at the agreed due date provided in
the Loan Agreement. In some instances the audited financial statements were received by the Bank after the
due date, but in all cases audit reports were considered acceptable to the Bank.

Unqualified opinions were given by the auditors on the Project Accounts, on the SOE Statements and on
the Special Account. Early during project implementation, the auditors' reports did, nonetheless, indicate
inadequate internal controls and accountability issues consistent with the Bank's findings. These problems
were solved with the addition of management audits and the transfer of management responsibilities to DEP
with the assistance of UNDP which carried out key administrative and contracting functions after project



                                                      - 22 -

restructuring.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of project benefits is considered Likely, particularly with respect to natural resources
management activities. The project successfully set in motion a process towards a longer-term goal. The
evaluation report commissioned by the government concludes that: (i) the project broadly increased the
comprehension of government and civil society about the interrelationship between conservation of the
environment and sustainable development; (ii) it successfully changed behaviors of communities,
municipalities, departments and the central government; and (iii) it contributed significantly to
strengthening local and municipal organizations dedicated to environment and development. By the end of
the project, the participative approach to microcatchment area-based sustainable rural development
followed by PARN was broadly adopted by communities and local governments; hence the prospects for
sustainability at the local and regional levels seem highly likely. At the national level, it is important to
remember that at the start of the project the concepts of sustainable agriculture and natural resource
management were relatively unknown in Paraguay. Sustainability at the national level seems likely since
today the PARN model for natural resources management and poverty alleviation has wide credibility in
Paraguay and is being used as the foundation for the follow-up Sustainable Development Project to be
financed by the Bank.

Technical:     The      project's     innovative    conservationist     technologies     resulted      in    more
environmentally-sustainable production systems, lower production costs, lower labor requirements, higher
productivity and, therefore, more economically and socially-sustainable systems. The sustainability of
these technologies seems likely.

Institutional: Delegation of responsibility and influence to local-level organizations and involving local
governments supported the decentralization of resources, decision-making and activities thus contributing
significantly to social capital formation under this project. Institutional sustainability is further bolstered by
the participatory governance features of the project, which also contributes to the accountability of local
governments. However, further support to local-level organizations is required to foster political will to
consolidate achievements made at the institutional level, mainly through the formation of the Departmental
Development Commissions which are established by law but have yet to be established in many
Departments. With regard to MAG, although the sustainability of the DEP and other reforms in MAG are
modest, the successes achieved as well as the track record over the past few years should contribute to the
sustainability of such institutional change at the central level.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The government of Paraguay is working closely with the Bank on a follow-up operation, the Sustainable
Rural Development Project, to consolidate the achievements of PARN and further scale them up across
much of Eastern Paraguay. The lessons learned in PARN will be applied to this new operation.

In spite of the important achievements of the project, there is still room for improvement and consolidation
which poses a great challenge to the MAG and the follow-up project. This will be especially true in the
poorest new project areas in the Departments of Concepción, San Pedro and Caaguazú where PARN
worked on a pilot basis and where the new project will continue. The future is particularly challenging in



                                                     - 23 -

view of the continued institutional weakness of the MAG, although a more fundamental reform of the
MAG's formal extension service, along lines guided by World Bank good practice, is in its early stages.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's lending performance is considered Unsatisfactory due to the overly complex and unrealistic
project design. Beyond the good quality of the project document and the technical preparation work done,
the Bank should have placed more realism in handling a project involving deep policy reform and
decentralization. The project took into account CAS priorities, defining the objectives and designing the key
project implementation approach. Yet the initial design of the institutional arrangements, project structure
and operational practices proved to be overambitious despite the legal agreements reached. Foremost, the
institutional weakness and the over-centralization risks were described in the SAR, but the proposed
mitigating institutional strengthening of MAG proved to be largely ineffective. In addition, the lack of
political will to undertake the government institutional changes required for the implementation of the
project and to improve efficiency in a context of transparency and accountability were not adequately
assessed in the SAR. Moreover, the ability of MAG to manage and coordinate the many components and
sub-components, activities and institutions was over-estimated. The lack of a strong M&E unit further
complicated project implementation and limited the ability of management to respond more rapidly to
emerging problems. These challenges resulted in under-performing components (Credit) or performing
moderately satisfactorily because of meeting goals not originally foreseen (Infrastructure) or performing
well only after the project was restructured (Agricultural Development, Indigenous Communities and
Institutional Development). In sum, the institutional arrangements for project implementation had to be
revised and simplified at the MTR but the project structure remained complex and ambitious over the entire
implementation period.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance is considered to have been Satisfactory. Specifically, the Bank
averaged a moderately unsatisfactory supervision performance in its initial years and satisfactory
supervision after the project restructuring. The time elapsed until the project was restructured was too long
(four years). In fact, the MTR defined a series of institutional and operational actions to improve the
implementation of the project from 2000 onwards, and two extensions of the Loan's Closing Date were
granted. An intensive supervision strategy was implemented during the second part of project
implementation. The Bank's approaches provided a combination of fiduciary monitoring and technical
assistance that resulted in the development of a stronger relationship with the MAG. The addition of several
specialists to the supervision team helped improve fiduciary and implementation performance of the
Indigenous Communities component. However, the strategy to grant multiple one-year extensions instead of
one longer extension (coupled with benchmarks) worked against many of the key elements of the new
operational strategy (decentralization, more participation and strong technical assistance). It also adversely
affected counterpart financial planning and budgeting.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated Satisfactory. Despite the original design complexities, they were
later addressed and corrected by the restructuring of the project.

Borrower



                                                    - 24 -

7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is considered Satisfactory. Preparation of this project was
quite challenging given the weak institutional context and lack of experience with sustainable natural
resource management and participatory approaches in Paraguay. Estimates about the commitment and
rapidity of institutional reform proved to be overly optimistic.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's implementation performance is rated Unsatisfactory. This reflects the government's
failure to fully and consistently facilitate project implementation, to provide an adequate policy framework
and to follow through with legal commitments. There were frequent changes of authorities and managers,
untimely counterpart contributions and poor inter-institutional coordination. Consequently, the performance
of the different components was dependent on the executing units' own professionalism, dedication and
project interpretation, and, as noted above, with the exception of the DEP, the results were not as positive
as might have been expected. A special mention should be made of the municipal and other local agencies
that participated in the project since they made major contributions to improved implementation
performance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The willingness of the MAG to improve implementation performance and its performance through DEP is
considered to have been Satisfactory after correcting the initial management arrangements through
UCTAP, which performed poorly and had to be changed.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The early unsatisfactory performance was
considerably improved after the project was restructured and the DEP was established to assume control of
most of the project activities. However, low commitment to legal agreements and continued institutional
instability continually hampered implementation performance; this was only counteracted by DEP's good
performance due to its relative independence.

8. Lessons Learned

The following are the main lessons learned with operational implications for future, similar projects:

·        Microcatchment area-based projects aimed at improving sustainable natural resources
management, rural poverty alleviation and income generation in poor communities should always: (i)
include an effective and transparent process of participatory and decentralized planning and
decision-making; (ii) be demand-oriented; and (iii) combine actions facing relevant issues (e.g., natural
resources, production and social needs) faced by poor communities in an integrated way.

·        It is vital for the above mentioned microcatchment area-based projects to create and/or strengthen
beneficiary organizations at the local and regional level and to involve local governments and organized
civil society to leverage commitment to and sustainability of the process and benefits. As beneficiary
organizations (both peasant and indigenous) are strengthened they develop "social capital" and become
more empowered to seek and interact with other governmental and non-governmental organizations for
issues not covered or inadequately covered under a project (e.g., health and educational services).

·        The highly participatory and more interdisciplinary microcatchment area-based approach (carried
out under Component 1) was more effective in building both social capital and community awareness and
involvement with the management of natural resources while the more limited menu CDD style approach
(carried out under the Rural Investment Fund, Component 6) remained more focused on collective


                                                      - 25 -

productive and small agro-processing endeavors than on natural resources management activities.

·       When working with indigenous groups, it is critical to work with and strengthen indigenous
organizations, respecting the culturally-defined decision-making mechanisms of each ethnic group. This
helps ensure active participation of organizations and communities in project implementation. When
working with indigenous people, project technicians need to respect the processes of indigenous
development and adapt the project to the needs and demands that arise from communities themselves
without imposing pre-established packages, timing or modalities of work that are foreign to the
communities

·       Projects greatly benefit when the policy framework guiding the process remains stable. This
includes leadership that is firm, committed and independent from political influence with clear rules of the
game. Realism is needed in handling projects involving policy reform and decentralization, and assent
should not be mistaken for government intention to actually carry out difficult reforms.

·       The simplest and most effective project implementation arrangements and institutional set-up,
consistent with the development objective and the actual institutional set-up, should be utilized for projects
that address complex problems via relatively weak institutions. Additionally, project goals and objectives
should be more targeted and limited in order to maximize their achievement.

·       It is very important to develop efficient and effective monitoring and results-based impact
indicators for multi-disciplinary projects such as the microcatchment area-based approach whose objectives
span many technical and institutional domains. Economic analysis should be carried out during preparation
in addition to the adequate collection of baseline data. Projects must have a comprehensive M&E system,
which includes social monitoring and performance indicators. Such M&E systems are a crucial
management tool to ensure focused actions and quality controls.

·       It is crucial to establish strict criteria for targeting beneficiaries and areas, as well as clear and
transparent eligibility criteria and decision-making processes, to allocate resources. Projects should always
have comprehensive and detailed Operational Manuals to reduce the risk of unwanted interferences in the
project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 26 -

(b) Cofinanciers:




                     - 27 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators


Indicator                                              Before the  Actual   Increase
                                                        project               (%)
Component A ­ Agricultural Development
Yield cotton (kg/ha)                                     1,465     1,628      11.1
Yield rice (kg/ha)                                       1,517     2,186      44.1
Yield maize (kg/ha)                                      2,825     3,256      15.3
Yield cassava (kg/ha)                                   17,429     21,865     25.5
Yield soy bean (kg/ha)                                   2,278     2,735      20.0
Yield wheat (kg/ha)                                      1,810     1,936      7.0


Output Indicators



Indicator                                Projected ­   Projected-  Actual  Actual/SAR Actual/
                                          SAR 1       Redesign 1              (%)     Redesign
                                                                                       (%)
Component A: Agricultural Development
Microcatchments that have Management         50           30         51       102       170
Plans prepared
Microcatchments that have Management         50           30         51       102       170
Plans implemented
Area under Microcatchment Management      150,000       200,602    264,567    176       131
Plans (ha)
Zonificación "Microcatchment Districts"      sp           30         30        na       100
On-farm Management and Investment Plans    7,900         3,600     13,545     171       376
(PIF) prepared
On-farm Management and Investment Plans    7,900         3,600     13,077     165       363
(PIF) implemented
Community Investment Plans (PIC)             -            90        530        na       588
prepared
Community Investment Plans (PIC)             sp           90        505        na       561
implemented
Municipal Investment Plans (PIM) prepared    -            54         41        na       75
Municipal Investment Plans (PIM)             -            54         41        na       75
implemented
Farms with agro-forestry systems             -            60        860        na      1433
Demonstrative farms                          -            150       408        na       272
Workshop on the San Rafael Park              -             2         1         na       50
Demarcation of San Rafael Park (has)                               72,490
Environmental education events               -             7         35        na       500
Producers committees established and        350           250       411       117       164
assisted
Women groups supported                       -            64        150        na       234
Cooperatives assisted                        27           12         8        29,6      66




                                                 - 29 -

District Commissions established and             27          27        9      33,3    33
assisted
Producers training events                         -         456      1,363    na      298
Training courses to extension agents              -          50       35      na      70
PARN assessment workshops                         -           2        1      na      500
Producers groups assisted on production           -          60       73      na      121
processing
Producers assisted on district trade events       -         150      283      na      188
Producers assisted on department trade            -         150      312      na      200
events
Producers groups assisted on produce              -         120      173      na      144
marketing
PlFs financed by FOCORN                         7,900       3,600   13,077    165     363
PlCs financed by FOCORN                           -          90      530      na      588
PlMs financed by FOCORN                           -          54       41      na      75
Curvas de nivel (km)                              -           -      2,608    na      na
Terraces (km)                                     -           -      6,258    na      na
Subsolado (ha)                                    -           -     10,832    na      na
Encalado (ha)                                     -           -      4,312    na      na
Soil conditioning for zero tilling agriculture    -           -      4,084    na      na
(ha)
Green fertilizing (ha)                            -           -      8,453    na      na
Reforestation (ha)                                -           -      2,219    na      na
Agro-forestry (ha)                                -           -      2,585    na      na
Cortinas rompeviento (ml)                         -           -     182,070   na      na
Natural regeneration of forests for water         -           -     281,368   na      na
protection
Enriquecimiento del bosque (ha)                   -           -      243      na      na
Barreras vivas (km)                               -           -      788      na      na
Silvopastura (ha)                                 -           -      368      na      na
Drinking water facilities for animals             -           -      824      na      na
Bee hives                                         -           -      418      na      na
Metallic silos                                    -           -      6,270    na      na
Biodiversidad (units)                             -           -      3,626    na      na
Sanitary Latrines                                 -           -      6,861    na      na
Cooking facilities (units)                        -           -      3,149    na      na
Brocal de pozo (units)                            -           -      4,383    na      na
Productive projects with women groups             -           -       35      na      na
Community water supply facilities (units)         -           -      127      na      na
Zero tilling kits                                 -           -      263      na      na
Conservationist roads (km)                        -           -       55      na      na
Component B: Indigenous Communities
Land acquired to settle indigenous              6,515       6,500   7,656     175     178
communities (ha)
Land titled to indigenous communities (ha)      6,346       6,640   7,047     89      85
Beneficiary indigenous communities for           27          27       17      63      63
land regularization
Beneficiary indigenous families                 1,285         -        -       -      -
Indigenous communities counting on               27          50       58      214     116



                                                     - 30 -

technical and financial assistance to
improve subsistence cropping agriculture
Indigenous families counting on technical    1,285       1,285   1,600   124    124
and financial assistance to improve
subsistence cropping agriculture
Indigenous communities receiving formal or     -           50     26      na    52
informal education
Indigenous communities receiving formal        -           50     50      na    100
or informal health assistance
Data base incorporated in the project's GIS    -           1       1      na    100
Component C: Infrastructure
Rural roads construction and                 455          445     396     87    89
re-construction (km)
Rural roads maintenance (km)                 455          445     366     80    82
Component D: Institutional Development
CICAR                                          1           0       1     100     0
CRAE                                           1           0       1     100     0
UCTAP                                          1           0       1     100     0
Project's Executive Directorate (DEP)          -           1       1      na    100
COR                                            1           0       1     100     0
Meetings of the Regional Operating             -           72     71      na    98
Committees (CORs)
Operating, technical and administrative        -           3       3      na    100
manuals
Operative GIS                                  -           1       1      na    100
Municipalities with Development and            -           31     31      na    100
Environment secretaries created and
equipped
"Juntas Vecinales para la Conservación de     50           30     51     102    170
los Recursos Naturales" created and
receiving assistance
Technical and management audits                -           5       8      na    160
Component E: Pilot Agricultural Credit
Number of Sub-loans                          5,500       5,500   3,487    63    63
Total disbursed (US$ M)                        5          2.4     2.4     48    100
Beneficiary families                         5,500       5,500   3,487    63    63
Regional agencies supported                    -           16     16      na    100
Component F: Community Rural
Investments (IRC)
Creation of Operating Committees at            -           8       9      na    112
department level (CODEs)
Applications submitted to CORs and             -          400    1,049    na    262
CODEs by the producers committees and
indigenous communities (1° y 2° phase)
Applications submitted and approved by         -          400     547     na    136
the Technical Support Unit (UAT)
Microprojects submitted to Gabinete            -          400     476     na    119
Técnico
Microprojects approved by Gabinete             -          400     401     na    100
Técnico



                                                  - 31 -

Microprojects financed during the 1° phase    200        200     268     134    134
Beneficiary families in the 1° phase           -          -      5,266    na     na
Financial resources in the 1° phase (US$ M)    -          5       3.3     na     65
Microprojects with first disbursement in the   -         400     396      na     99
2° phase
Microprojects with second disbursement in      -         400     346      na     86
2° phase
Beneficiary families in 2° phase               -        10,400   6,171    na     59
Financial resources in the 2° phase            -         5.5      3.9     na     69
Community microprojects - Producers            -        332      344      na    103
Committees (includes 1° phase)
Community microprojects - Producers            -         1,7      4,2     na    250
Committees (includes 1° phase) (US$ M)
Beneficiary producers                          -        4,160    6,316    na    151
Individual microprojects to Producers          -         132     164      na    124
Committees
Individual microprojects to Producers          -         1,7      1,4     na     85
Committees (US$ M)
Beneficiary producers                          -        4,160    2,187    na     52
Community microprojects to women groups        -          40      26      na     65
Community microprojects to Women               -         0,6      0,2     na     37
Groups (US$ M)
Beneficiary producers                          -        1,040    379      na     36
Individual microprojects to Women Groups       -          40      57      na    142
Individual microprojects to Women Groups       -         0,6      0,5     na     83
(US$ M)
Beneficiary producers                          -        1,040    908      na     87
Microprojects to Indigenous Communities        -          80      70      na     87
Microprojects to Indigenous Communities        -         1.1      0.8     na     71
(US$ M)
Beneficiary families                           -        2,080    1,660    na     79
Total number of microprojects financed by      -         600     664      na    110
IRC (1° y 2° phase)




                                                 - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million    US$ million
Agricultural Development                                     46.40            20.80           110.8
Indigenous Communities                                        3.40              2.90          134.9
Infrastructure                                               15.40            17.70           125.9
Institutional Development                                     5.10              4.70           47.4
Pilot Agricultural Credit                                     8.80              2.70           64.8
Community Rural Investments                                                   11.30

Total Baseline Cost                                          79.10            60.10
                         Total Project Costs                 79.10            60.10
                   Total Financing Required                  79.10            60.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            13.20             1.90          0.00           0.00        15.10
                                   (10.40)           (1.50)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (11.90)
2. Goods                            2.90              1.00          0.40           0.00         4.30
                                    (2.80)           (0.90)         (0.40)        (0.00)      (4.10)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00          13.10          0.00        13.10
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (12.50)        (0.00)      (12.50)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00              0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
4.1 Miscellaneous :                 0.00              0.00          20.70          0.00        20.70
Recurrent Costs                     (0.00)           (0.00)        (11.50)        (0.00)      (11.50)
4.2 Miscellaneous: Land             0.00              0.00          0.00           8.80         8.80
Purchasing                          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
4.3 Miscellaneous: Grants            0.00             0.00           5.00           0.00        5.00
FOCORN                              (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4.4 Miscellaneous: Sub-loan          0.00             0.00           5.00           0.00        5.00
Pilot Credit                        (0.00)           (0.00)         (5.00)        (0.00)       (5.00)
4.5 Miscellaneous:                   0.00             0.00           0.00           7.10        7.10
Beneficiaries - Farmers             (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4.6 Miscellaneous: Pilot             0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00        0.00
subconcesiounes                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4.7 Miscellaneous: Recurrent         0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00        0.00
Costs Component F                   (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            16.10             2.90          44.20          15.90       79.10
                                   (13.20)           (2.40)        (34.40)        (0.00)      (50.00)




                                                - 33 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                           1
                                                     Procurement Method
          Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB                  2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
   1. Works                            15.90             0.30           0.00           0.00           16.20
                                       (8.40)           (0.20)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (8.60)
   2. Goods                             1.90             0.50           0.40           0.00            2.80
                                       (1.80)           (0.50)         (0.40)          (0.00)        (2.60)
   3. Services                          0.00             0.30          11.30           0.00           11.60
                                       (0.00)           (0.30)         (11.30)         (0.00)        (11.3)
   4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
                                       (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
   4.1 Miscellaneous :                  0.00             0.00           4.60           0.00            5.20
   Recurrent Costs                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (3.50)          (0.00)        (3.50)
   4.2 Miscellaneous: Land              0.00             0.00           0.00            2.40           2.40
   Purchasing                          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   4.3 Miscellaneous: Grants            0.00             0.00           8.80            0.00           8.80
   FOCORN                              (0.00)           (0.00)         (8.80)          (0.00)         (8.80)
   4.4 Miscellaneous: Sub-loan          0.00             0.00           2.40            0.00           2.40
   Pilot Credit                        (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.40)          (0.00)         (2.40)
   4.5 Miscellaneous:                   0.00             0.00           0.00            1.90           1.90
   Beneficiaries - Farmers             (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   4.6 Miscellaneous: Pilot             0.00             0.00           8.70            0.00           8.70
   microprojects                       (0.00)           (0.00)         (8.70)          (0.00)         (8.70)
   4.7 Miscellaneous:                   0.00             0.00           0.70           0.00            0.70
   Recurrent Costs Component           (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.70)          (0.00)        (0.70)
   F
       Total                           17.80             1.10          36.90           4.30           60.10
                                       (10.20)          (1.00)         (35.80)         (0.00)        (47.00)

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
        Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                            Bank      Govt.       CoF.      Bank        Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.    CoF.
Agricultural Development    26.60     14.80       5.00      18.80       1.10       0.90    70.7    7.4     18.0
Indigenous Communities       1.20     2.20        0.00       0.40       2.50               33.3   113.6    0.0
Infrastructure              12.50     2.90        0.00      10.10       7.60               80.8   262.1    0.0
Institutional Development    3.50     1.60        0.00       4.20       0.50               120.0   31.3    0.0
Pilot Agricultural Credit    6.20     0.50        2.10       2.70       0.01               43.5    2.0     0.0
Community Rural              0.00     0.00        0.00      10.80       0.06       0.44     0.0    0.0     0.0
Investments
Total                       50.00     22.00       7.10      47.00      11.77       1.34    94.0    53.5    18.9




                                                   - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The completed project has successfully achieved its development objectives. The major accomplishments
are threefold: (i) improved natural resource management and more sustainable approaches to agriculture
are now an accepted paradigm in Paraguay; (ii) participatory methodologies for decision-making and
working with small farmers and indigenous people are more commonplace; and (iii) poverty was alleviated.
The former two achievements are particularly remarkable considering that Paraguay was at an early stage
with regards to environmental matters in general (and sustainable agriculture and protected areas in
particular), and that institutional capacity-building at the local level was needed when the project was
begun. With respect to poverty alleviation, small farmer assistance under the components of Agricultural
Development, Indigenous Communities and Rural Community Investment benefited an estimated 26,200
families.

During the project preparation, an economic and financial analysis was not carried out, and neither was
comprehensive baseline data collected. However, an economic analysis for this ICR was conducted based
on actual outcomes, partial baseline data from study cases developed under Component 1, and data
available in the SAR for component 3, and a sample of subprojects developed under Component 6.

Identifying Benefits

Component 1, Agricultural Development, promoted the sustainable increase of farmer production and
income. Roughly 13,100 farm families received assistance to develop and implement Individual Farm
Management and Investment Plans financed by FOCORN. The project assisted small farmers in
restructuring the productive process towards sustainable, conservation-oriented agriculture.         About
264,600 hectares were covered under this program.

Project activities led to an increase in crop yield and farmer income. Annex 1, above, displays the results:
cotton yields increased by 11%, rice by 44%, maize by 15%, cassava by 26%, soybean by 20%, and wheat
by 7%, while expenditures in fertilizers and other inputs fell by 35 percent or approximately US$65.0 per
hectare/year.

Component 3, Infrastructural Development, focused on the realignment, improvement and maintenance of
existing roads to improve transit conditions. The work also reduced the negative environmental effects of
the roads, and supported agro-ecological land-use zoning. A total of 396 km were rehabilitated, including
some paved with stones - empedrado - (to achieve lower maintenance cost), and 366 km received
maintenance. The average cost per km was US$40,000, which is consistent with the unit cost for similar
road construction projects in the region.

Following data from the SAR, MTR and from the PAD of the recent Paraguay-Road Maintenance Project,
it is considered that project activities led to a decrease in road maintenance costs on the order of
US$540/km/year, and lower vehicle operating costs of US$0.20/vehicle/km due to a 50 percent decrease in
road roughness. An average annual daily traffic of 800 vehicles was used.

Component 6, Rural Community Investments, financed 664 microprojects (for a total of US$3.9 million)
that benefited 11,500 farm families. Microproject financing included small irrigation infrastructure,
non-tillage seeding equipment, storage facilities and small processing plants, and improved and new
community production systems (e.g., poultry, dairy, swine, grains and other crops, among others). Data
from the MTR and from the microprojects implemented earlier during the second phase show positive



                                                     - 35 -

annual net financial flows ranging from US$707 to US$6,439.

Financial and Economic Analysis

Illustrative Farm and Community Rural Investments Models : To assess the financial and economic impact
of the project's strategy, a farm model representative of the average individual agricultural farming in the
project area was developed. It represents the actual most common beneficiary choices made in response to
the proposed project activities and incentives towards the adoption of agricultural practices and the
implementation of investments.

The individual small-scale farming model was constructed on the basis of the following criteria: prevailing
production patterns and crop yields before the project based on data from the pilot microcatchments
implemented during project preparation; average 10 ha farm size;          production patterns, productivity
increases ­as shown in Annex 1­ and production costs savings in line with those recorded for the
microcatchments with the longest project intervention and where consolidation of the project strategy has
been achieved and partial baseline data is available. The typical land use and production pattern after
project support includes: 5.50 ha of soybeans, 1.00 ha of corn and 0.75 ha cotton ­no till­; 0.75 ha of
cassava, 0.25 ha of beans, 0.75 ha of pasture and 1.00 ha of native wooded area, vegetable garden and
dwelling.

The main assumptions for the financial analysis were: (i) 100% of investment costs (excluding labor)
included in farm and community rural investments models were financed by the project's Natural
Resources Conservation Fund (FOCORN, Component 1) and Component 6; and (ii) a 20-year period of
analysis.    Incremental costs considered in the farm financial analysis include incremental on-farm
productive investment, recurrent expenditure for the adoption of sustainable agricultural production
practices and other expenditures related to post-harvest activities.

The financial rate of return was estimated for a sample of different type of community microprojects based
on available financial flows data from the MTR and from the microprojects implemented earlier during the
second phase of Component 6. The table below outlines the results for the farm and rural community
investments models.



          Component /           Financial Rate    Net Present      Incremental Income
             Model                of Return      Value (NPV)              per
                                   (FRR)             (US$)          Beneficiary/Year
                                     (%)                                 (US$)
 Component 1
 Aggregate Model (1 family)          100.3           1,301              321
 Component 6
 Poultry (10 families)               34.1            39,561             285
 Dairy (15 families)                 23.4            29,315             122
 Honey (10 families)                 22.9            26,013             137
 Irrigation (6 families)             67.1            77,096             1,073
 Grain Storage (6 families)          26.8            38,622             428


It is worth noting that the aggregate model under Component 1 does not capture beneficiary benefits from
group investments similar to some of those under Component 6 ­ e.g. grain storage and processing
facilities. As expected, results for investments under Component 6 that promote a more intensive use of


                                                   - 36 -

production and processing facilities, or with relatively low unit costs and higher returns, present larger
beneficiary benefits ­ e.g., irrigation and poultry.

Economic Analysis and Sensitivity

Using the abovementioned models for Components 1 and 6, plus a specific model for Component 3, the
overall internal economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was estimated to be 19.2%. This estimate is
conservative since it does not take into account some of the benefits accrued from the project that are
extremely difficult to quantify such as: (i) positive environmental externalities at the microcatchment and
community level, including improved water quality, and biodiversity conservation; (ii) long-term effects of
strengthened community organization and self management; (iii) positive impacts of Component 2 due to
better nutrition and health as a result of increased and diversified production; and (iv) positive impacts of
road maintenance activities of Component 3.

The cost stream for the overall economic analysis is based on all project costs. For the economic analysis
of Components 1 and 6, the cost stream is based on three elements: (i) on-farm investment and recurrent
costs (all); (ii) costs of extension and technical assistance services to farmers; and (iii) community
development costs and training. For Component 3, only roads rehabilitation costs and benefits were taken
into account.

Incremental net benefits were estimated on the basis of the models and prices adjusted to reflect the
economic opportunity cost; all transfers including taxes and subsidies were excluded from the analysis. It
should be noted that the latest estimation of shadow prices in Paraguay was done in the 1970s. The rate of
exchange is currently determined in the open market and, as there are no noticeable trade restrictions in
Paraguay, domestic prices tend to correspond to border prices. Shadow prices for unskilled labor were
therefore estimated at 0.70% of the market wage rate. All other inputs were adjusted by the standard
conversion factor (0.90) to account for taxes. The time horizon is 20 years.

Analyses were performed on the ERR to measure its sensitivity to the calculated benefits and costs, and the
stream of benefits. The analyses show stability of the results.

The summary of the analyses is as follows:

                                                         ERR                 NPV
                                                                          (US$`000)
Overall Project                                         19.2 %                   11,220.4
Benefits reduced by 15%                                 15.5 %                    5,193.7
Costs increased by 15%                                  16.0 %                    6,876.7
Combination of both changes (15%)                       12.5 %                       856.1
Component 1                                             36.9 %                   12,407.9
Benefits reduced by 15%                                 31.6 %                   9,288.8
Costs increased by 15%                                  32.3 %                   11,149.9
Combination of both changes (15%)                       27.3 %                    8,030.9
Component 3                                             26.6 %                    5,094.0
Benefits reduced by 15%                                 21.0 %                    3,159.6
Costs increased by 15%                                  21.7 %                    3,923.7
Combination of both changes (15%)                       16.9 %                    1,989.3



                                                    - 37 -

Component 6                                           18.5 %                     1,512.2
Benefits reduced by 15%                               14.4 %                       539.0
Costs increased by 15%                                15.0 %                       765.8
Combination of both changes (15%)                     11.2 %                      -207.4

Conclusion

The above results show that the proposed project is economically and financially viable, despite the
protracted project implementation period and the short period available for the consolidation and accrual of
project impacts.




                                                  - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              02/10/1992                     SR. AGRICULTURAL ECON.
                                             (1) SR. FORESTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1) COSULTANT
                                             (1) SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              05/27/1992                     SR. AGRICULTURAL ECON.
                                             (1) SR. FORESTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1) COSULTANT
                                             (1) SOCIOLOGIST (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/08/1992                     SR. AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECON. (1) SR. FORESTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                             COSULTANT (1)
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              04/13/1993                     SR. AGRICULTURAL ECON.
                                             (1) LAWYER (1) SR.
                                             FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1)
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1)

 Supervision

              08/30/1994                1    SR. AGRICULTURAL ECON.           S               S
                                             (1)
              05/25/1995                2    SR. AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);        U               S
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              08/05/1995                2    SR. AGRICULT. ECON. (1);         S               S
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              12/01/1995                1    SR. AGRICULTURAL ECON.           U               S
                                             (1)
              06/13/1996                2    SR. AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);        S               S
                                             LAWYER (1)
              09/17/1996                1    SR. AGRIC.ECONOMIST (1)          S               S
              02/15/1997                1    SR. ECONOMIST (1)                S               S
              04/03/1998                1    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              12/18/1998                1    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              01/18/1999                1    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              04/30/1999                1    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1)




                                              - 39 -

               01/31/2000              5   AGRICULTURAL                       U    S
                                           ECONOMIST (2);
                                           CONSULTANT, FAO/CP (1);
                                           ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               06/26/2000              2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               06/18/2001              1   TEAM LEADER (1)                    S    S
               11/30/2001              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                           WATERSHED MGMT. SPEC.
                                           (1)
               04/20/2002              1   TTL (1)                            U    S
               10/21/2002              4   SR. RURAL DEVELOP SPEC             S    S
                                           (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                           OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MGMT. SPEC (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               06/20/2003              6   TASK MANAGER (1); RURAL            S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (4)
               06/16/2003              2   RURAL SPECIALIST (1);              S    S
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               10/24/2003              2   RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);             S    S
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               02/04/2004              3   RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);             S    S
                                           RURAL DEV (CONSULTANT)
                                           (1); ECONOMIST (FAO) (1)
               04/26/2004              2   TTL (1) CONSULTANT                 S    S
               06/28/2004              6   TTL (1) AUTROPOLOGIST (1)          S    S
                                           SOCIOLOGIST (1) RURAL
                                           DEVE. SPECIALIST (1)
                                           COMMU. SPECIALIST (1)
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               02/14/2005              3   TTL (1) FM SPECIALIST (2)          S    S
               07/25/2005              3   TTL (1) SOCIAL SPECIALIST          S    S
                                           (1) NRM SPEICALIST (1)
               10/28/2005              1   TTL (1)                            S    S
               01/31/2006              1   TTL (1)                            S    S

 ICR
               06/01/2006                   TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            RURAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           260.7                         576.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 41.8                         107.4



                                            - 40 -

Supervision    261.8         1,340.7
ICR             7.7            44.8
Total           572          2,069.5




                   - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

PARN, Informe Final de Implementación, 2006

PARN, Evaluaciones de los componentes del PARN, 2005

PARN, Estudios de caso de impacto en microcuencas seleccionadas, 2005

PARN, Evaluación del impacto socio-económico y ambiental del proyecto sobre fincas productoras de
microcuencas y sus organizaciones, 2006

PARN, Informe de evaluación de impacto del componente F, 2006

Informes de ejecución financiera

Loan Amendments

Mid-Term Review reports and AM

SAR

Supervision reports

PARN PSRs




                                                   - 44 -

 Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

                                   INFORME EJECUTIVO DEL PARN


I-        Presentación: En este informe se puntualiza los resultados más importantes alcanzados con la
implementación del Proyecto Administración de Recursos Naturales, ejecutado por el Ministerio de
Agricultura y Ganadería, con la participación del Instituto Paraguayo del Indígena, Ministerio de Obras
Publicas y Comunicaciones, el Crédito Agrícola de Habilitación.

El Costo inicial fue de US$ 79,1 millones y su financiamiento está compuesto por; 22 millones de fondos del
gobierno, 7,1 millones de aporte de los productores y un préstamo de 50 millones concedidos por el BIRF
(Convenio BIRF 3708 ­PA) aprobado por Ley de la nación N° 540/95, el préstamo posteriormente fue
reducido a US$ 47 millones.

Comenzó su implementación efectiva a nivel de campo en junio de 1997, y después de un rediseño en el año
1999 y con tres ampliaciones en el plazo de ejecución, concluirá el 31 de diciembre de 2005.

II- Objetivos Principales: Asistir a los pequeños productores y comunidades elegibles que viven en el área
del Proyecto y en el Área Piloto, respectivamente, en la creación de sistemas de producción sustentables y
diversificados, a través de:

    (i) la adopción de medidas de conservación de los recursos naturales, mediante el apropiado
    planeamiento del uso de la tierra;
    (ii) el mejoramiento de la productividad;
    (iii)el procesamiento y comercialización de los productos agrícolas; y
    (iv)la animación a las comunidades rurales a participar en la administración de los recursos
    naturales.

III- Área de Acción: a)-El área original que comprende el Dpto. de Alto Paraná y el norte del Itapúa,
incluyendo el área de reserva natural manejado de San Rafael y su zona de amortiguamiento que ocupa una
pequeña parte del Dpto. de Caazapá; b)- La zona expandida que comprenden los Departamentos de
Concepción (Distritos de Belén y Horqueta), San Pedro (Distritos de Nva. Germania y Santa Rosa del
Aguaray) y el sur de Itapúa (Distritos de San Pedro del Paraná y Gral. Artigas) que se incluyeron a partir
del año 2003; c-.Los Dptos. de Concepción, San Pedro, Cordillera, Guairá, Caazapá, Caaguazú, Paraguarí,
Canindeyú , Alto Paraná e Itapúa, atendidos por el Componente F: Inversiones Rurales Comunitarias.

IV- Principales metas y logros:

1- Componente A: "Desarrollo Agrícola; El Componente debía seleccionar y planificar 30 unidades de
trabajo (microcuencas), dentro de las cuales brindaría asistencia técnica agroecológica        a unas 3.600
familias(después del rediseño), a través de i)- la planificación y manejo de las fincas, ii)- Capacitación
técnica y organizacional y iii) la transferencia de sistemas alternativos de producción (sustentable),y iv) el
financiamiento en forma de donación, de obras practicas y medidas de conservación de los recursos
naturales a nivel de comunidades y las fincas.
A la fecha se está trabajado en 51 microcuencas preparando Plan de Manejo (PMM) en cada una de ellas,
que consiste en un diagnostico y un ordenamiento de las acciones que son necesarias realizar en un periodo
de 5 años para desarrollar con la comunidad, atendiendo aspectos sociales, económicos, ambientales y
productivos. En conjunto totalizan una superficie de 264.577 ha.
Con la implementación de estos planes se está asistiendo a unas 13.077 familias asentadas en estas


                                                     - 45 -

microcuencas preparando e implementando planes de manejo de fincas, para replantear la misma hacia a
adopción de sistemas sustentables de producción.
Se conformaron organizaciones denominadas Juntas Vecinales para la Conservación de los Recursos
Naturales (JVCRN) en total 51, las cuales aglutinan a más de 460 organizaciones de base, entre comités de
productores, mujeres y jóvenes. Estas Juntas son las que permiten la participación de la comunidad en la
ejecución del Proyecto, realizan los procedimientos establecidos para operar el Proyecto, reciben y canalizan
los recursos para ejecución de los planes. Para viabilizar las obras, prácticas y medidas conservacionistas
previstas en el Proyecto transfirió fondos en carácter de donación a los beneficiarios, para financiar planes
de inversión en fincas, comunitarios y municipales, para la realización de curvas de nivel, corrección con cal
agrícola, implantación de abonos verdes (invierno y verano), reforestación, acondicionamiento de parcelas
agrícolas, subsolado, construcción de letrinas, protección de posos con brocal, inversiones en biodiversidad,
abastecedores comunitarios de agua, compra de equipos de siembra directa a tracción animal, viveros,
diseño y construcción de caminos con criterios conservacionistas. Corresponde resaltar que los encargados
de la ejecución de los trabajos y de la administración de los fondos son los propios productores a través de
sus organizaciones, lo cual es una experiencia exitosa e inédita en el país.
Para desarrollar las habilidades y aptitudes requeridas para los trabajos, se realizan continuamente eventos
de capacitación y de entrenamiento a los técnicos que los asisten, en cuestiones ambientales, sociales,
administrativas y en técnicas de producción.


2- Componente B "Comunidades indígenas"; (INDI) Componente brindaría asistencia técnica a la
población indígena del área del Proyecto incluyendo la regularización de la tenencia de la tierra y la
adquisición de 6.515 ha de tierras, así como a provisión de equipos, herramientas y asistencia técnica para
27 comunidades.

A través de INDI se gestionó y adquirió unas 11.203,1 has de tierra y se asistió al INDI                en la
regularización y transferencia a nombre de las Comunidades de 5.667 has.

A través de la DEP se asiste técnica y financieramente a 57 Comunidades Indígenas de las etnias Aché, Ava
Guarani, Mbyá, Guaraní incentivando la producción de rubros de subsistencia a través de la provisión
herramientas (azadas, machetes, palas, pulverizadores, etc.) semillas, insumos y asesoramiento técnico.

3- Componente C: "Infraestructura"; (MOPC) contempla el realinamiento y

reconstrucción de unos 445 Km. Caminos rurales del área y la adquisición de equipos de mantenimiento
vial.

Los tramos rehabilitados y realineados por el componente totalizan 396 Km se adquirieron y se entregaron
al MOPC los siguientes equipos y maquinarias; 6(seis) motoniveladoras y repuestos; 1(un) pala cargadora
y repuestos; 4(cuatro) camiones volquetes 4(cuatro) cajas volquete y un lote de repuestos; 1(un) tractor
oruga con hoja topadora angulable y desgarrador trasero y un lote de repuestos por un total de US$
1.111.954.

LA ejecución de este componente esta a cargo del Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones
(MOPC).

4-Componente D: Desarrollo Institucional; (MAG)Contempla el fortalecimiento de las instituciones
ejecutoras del Proyecto como la Dirección Ejecutiva del Proyecto, Comités Operativo Regional, Juntas
vecinales para la Conservación de los Recursos Naturales y Municipalidades, para mejorar la gestión del
desarrollo local con perspectivas de sostenibilidad.

Por decreto de la Presidencia se creó y se mantiene en funcionamiento un Comité Operativo Regional,



                                                    - 46 -

órgano de participación y control social, integrado por representantes de los beneficiarios con la función de
apoyar a la unidad de ejecución en la gestión del Proyecto, aprobando los Planes Operativos, los
presupuestos anuales, los Planes de inversión, entre otros.

En 31 Municipalidades están funcionando secretarias de desarrollo y medio ambiente a las que se equipó
con computadoras, fotocopiadoras, aparatos visuales y mobiliarios suficientes para montar una oficina y se
las asesora para mejorar la gestión de su territorio y la atención a la problemática ambiental y agropecuaria.

Para el fortalecimiento de las instituciones y organizaciones participantes se están implementando acciones
para transferir a estas todas la experiencia y la información generada, con el fin de dar continuidad a la
acción iniciada por el Proyecto.

La Institución responsable a de su implementación es el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería a través de la
Dirección Ejecutiva del Proyecto (DEP).

5- Componente E: Crédito Agrícola Piloto; (CAH) Comprende el financiamiento (crédito) de planes de
inversión conservacionistas y pequeñas agroindustrias a 3.487 productores por un valor de US$ 2,4
millones, como así también el fortalecimiento del CAH en al región del Proyecto. Este Componente ya se
ejecutó en su totalidad.

El responsable de la ejecución de este Componente es el Crédito Agrícola de Habilitación (CAH).

6- Componente F: Inversiones Rurales Comunitarias; (MAG)Comprende el financiamiento (donación de
macroproyectos de inversión productiva a grupos de productores, productoras y Comunidades Indígenas
pobres de áreas rurales, así como la asistencia técnica y capacitación con el objetivo de dar valor agregado a
la producción agropecuaria utilizando la mano de obra familiar, para mejorar su alimentación y sus
ingresos mediante la venta de sus productos elaborados o industrializados.

En la 1° Etapa se financió 268 Microproyectos por un valor de US$ 3,25millones beneficiando en forma
directa a 5.286 familias rurales principalmente de los Dptos. de Cordillera, Caaguazú y Caazapá.

En la 2° Etapa (posterior al rediseño ­ año 2000) ya se financio 397 Microproyectos, por un valor de US$
5,5 millones beneficiando en forma directa a 6.600 familias de 10 Dptos. de la Región Oriental.

Los grupos a se beneficiados son previamente evaluados y seleccionados de acuerdo a criterios
preestablecidos    relacionados a niveles de pobreza, con la participación de los representantes de las
instituciones locales y regionales y la sociedad civil organizada, del tal manera         a asegurar que los
destinatarios san realmente los que merecen recibir dichas ayudas.

El responsable de la ejecución de este Componente es el MAG a través de una Unidad de Coordinación
Ejecutiva.




                                                      - 47 -

- 48 -

