Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11606-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 31, 1994
Country Department IV
Agriculture and Rural Poverty Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT
Guarani (G.)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of January 21, 1994)
US$I = G. 1,850
G. I = US$0.0005
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A list of abbreviations and acronyms used in the report
is shown in Annex 13.



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........................   i
I.     AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BACKGROUND  .....................  1
Agriculture in the Economy  .................................  1
Major Public Institutions in the Sector ...........................  2
Natural Resource Use in Agriculture ............................  3
Previous Bank Lending  ....................................  4
Lessons from Previous Projects in Paraguay  .......................  5
Lessons from General Bank Experience  ..........................  5
Bank Lending Strategy for the Sector ............................  8
Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................  8
II.    THE PROJECT  .......................................  9
A. Origin and Concept  ....................................    9
B. Objectives . .................................... 10
C. Project Description ....................................    11
Introduction ..................................... 11
Project Components   ....................................  12
Agricultural Development Component ........             ................. 13
Indigenous Communities Component  ........              ................. 17
Infrastructural Development Component  .......            ................ 18
Institutional Development Component ........            ................. 19
Pilot Agricultural Credit Component ........          .................. 20
D. Costs and Financing  ....................................   22
Project Costs ..................................... 22
Financing ..................................... 22
Procurement ..................................... 22
Disbursements and the Special Account .......           ................. 25
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Paraguay in June 1992, comprising Messrs.
Steven Oliver (Task Manager), John McKenna, Philip Hazelton, Alain Tobelem, and Robert Kirmse, of the
Bank, and Ms. Isabel Valencia, Consultant. The peer reviewer for the project is Mr. Andres Abramovich. Mr.
Victor Valle assisted in the preparation of this report. The Department Director and Operations Division Chief
are Messrs. Ping-Cheung Loh and Mark Wilson, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
E. Organization and Implementation  .............................. 26
Project Management  ................................... 26
Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation ....... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 27
Accounts, Audit and Reporting  ............................. 28
F. Benefits and Risks  ....................................... 28
Benefits  ...................  ....  ....  ....  ....  ...  ....                          . 29
Risks and Uncertainty   ..........  ..  ..  ..  .          ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .    . 29
Environmental Impact ...........  .             ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..    . 30
ITI.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS. AND RECOMMENDATION  ..... . .  .   . 31
Recommendation  ...............  ...  ..  ...  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..                      . 34
ANNEXES:
1.   The Project Area: Location and Main Characteristics .35
2.  Forest Conservation and Agro-Forestry .39
3.  Pilot Agricultural Credit Component .49
4.   Institutional Capacity Analysis and Development .61
5.  Infrastructural Development: Rural Roads .69
6.   The Natural Resources Conservation Fund (FOCORN) .77
7.     Project Costs and Financing  ................................. 81
8.   Disbursement Schedule and Estimated Annual Payments .89
9.  Schedule of Monitorable Actions .91
10. Supervision Plan .93
11. Documents in the Project File .95
12. Environmental Assessment: Summary .97
13. Abbreviations and Acronyms .105
MAPS: IBRD Nos. 24200, 24201 and 24303



PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Paraguay
Executing Agencies:  The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
The Ministry of Public Works and Communications
The Paraguayan Institute for Indigenous People
The Smaliholder Credit Agency
The Ministry of Education
The Ministry of Health and Welfare
Loan Amount:         US$50.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in twenty years, including five years of grace, with
amortization on an annuity basis, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project Objectives:   The objectives of the project would be: (a) to establish the
institutional framework necessary to deal with the major agricultural
and natural resource problems of the project area; (b) to generate
information through research and implement an area-wide system of
natural resource protection; (c) to assist small farmers in the
establishment of sustainable, diversified agricultural production
systems and conservation measures; and (d) to encourage the direct
participation of the local population in project implementation.
Project Description:  The components of the project would be: (a) agricultural
development, which would include research, technical assistance to
producers and their organizations, and support for protected areas;
(b) support for indigenous communities, which would include land
acquisition and regularization of titles, and the provision of technical
assistance in agriculture, health and education; (c) infrastructural
development, which would improve and maintain part of the existing
feeder road network; (d) institutional development, including
technical assistance and training support for existing and newly-
created institutions; and (e) pilot agricultural credit, for on-farm
investment by small farmers to support production and resource
conservation initiatives.
Project Benefits:    The main project benefit would be the establishment of the
institutional framework capable of addressing the long-term problems
of agriculture and natural resource use in the project area. The



- 1i -
project would introduce a coherent strategy of watershed
management. It would introduce technology, technical assistance
and research output to small farmers in selected catchment areas to
enable sustainable, diversified agricultural production to be achieved
in harmony with natural resource management. Designated protected
areas would be expanded and support provided for their
maintenance. Remaining indigenous people would be supported, and
enabled to maintain their traditional way of life on increased land
areas and on protected forest areas. The provision of agricultural
credit to small farmers would be improved.
Poverty Reduction:   The project is classified as a Program of Targeted Intervention with
respect to Poverty Reduction. Environmental degradation in
Paraguay has worsened the level of exposure of the rural poor to the
risks of further impoverishment. Inadequate natural resource
management practices, particularly those resulting in severe soil
degradation, have tended to reduce farm income and increase its
variability. Under the project, the growth prospects of smallholders
and indigenous communities would be improved. Technical and
financial support for the adoption of environmentally sound
production technologies, rehabilitation and modernization of basic
rural infrastructure, and improved access to formal sources of credit
would enhance productivity and create an economically viable
alternative to the existing pattern of natural resource mining.
Project Risks:       Institutional weakness is a risk faced by all projects in Paraguay.
The project's institutional structure has been carefully designed, and
demands considerable adjustment to established patterns of behavior
in multiple institutions. The institutional structure would include a
program of institutional development, and monitorable indicators
would allow progress to be followed closely during supervision and
mid-term review. The extensive and careless use of natural
resources in agriculture has been the basis for development to date.
The project aims to provide the basis to slow down and ultimately to
reverse this depredatory approach to natural resource use. This will
depend on a consistent message from the government and the
provision of a framework of incentives and penalties. Short-term
political expediency may run counter to the requirements of the
necessary long-term strategic approach. The Agricultural Sector
Review in progress will provide detailed recommendations and will
form the basis for the necessary dialogue between the Bank and the
Government. Under a Japanese PHRD grant, executed by the Bank,
a natural resource inventory is being compiled; the finalized product
will be an agro-ecological zoning document and an accompanying
body of legal and policy instruments. This would be the subject of
review, on its completion, by the Bank and the Government, and
agreement would be reached on the appropriate mechanisms and
timetable for their implementation.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
Local           Forei'n            Total
--------------------- US$ million ---------------------
Agricultural Development             31.0              11.8             42.8
Indigenous Communities                2.8              0.4               3.2
Infrastructural Development           6.4              6.5              12.9
Institutional Development             3.9              0.6               4.5
Pilot Agricultural Credit             4.8              3.8               8.6
Total Baseline Costs                 48.9             23.1              72.0
Contingencies:
Physical                            1.1               1.2              2.3
Price                               3.4               1.4              4.8
Total Project Costs                  53.4              25.7             79.1
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                 29.0              21.0             50.0
Government                           20.8              1.2              22.0
Producers                             3.6              3.5               7.1
Total                                53.4              25.7             79.1
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD FY           1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
------------------------------------ uS$  million  -----------------------------
Annual             2.3      1.5     7.5     8.0    10.0    10.0    10.0      0.7
Cumulative         2.3      3.8    11.3    19.3    29.3    39.3    49.3    50.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
MMps: IBRD Nos. 24200, 24201 and 24303



I
Z
I



PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BACKGROUND
Agriculture in the Economy
1.1         The agricultural sector has played a key role in the impressive economic
performance achieved by Paraguay since 1970, and its resource base will allow it to continue
as a major source of export-driven growth. The sector, broadly defined to include crops,
livestock and forestry, generates 30% of GDP, employs 40% of the work force, and provides
90% of registered merchandise exports. Agricultural products are also important raw
materials for industry, and agro-industry contributes about 50% of total industrial value-
added.
1.2         Paraguay is divided into two major regions, in terms of its natural resources.
The Western Region (the Regi6n Occidental or Chaco), with 60% of the country's total area
of 40 million ha, contains only 2% of the population and is limited, for reasons of soil
quality, topography and climate, almost in its entirety to extensive cattle production. The
Eastern Region (the Regi6n Oriental), by contrast, has a large proportion of land suitable for
crop production, and has three main sub-regions. The Center-South, with 5 million ha, is
the area of oldest agricultural development; its high population, sub-economic small holdings
(minifundia) and low yields make it an area of population emigration. The East, with 5.8
million ha (including the proposed project area of Alto Parana and the north of Itapuia),
contains the best soils and has the highest agricultural potential of Paraguay. The natural
forest cover is being removed at an increasing rate by colonization and agricultural
development. The North, with 5 million ha and traditionally an area of livestock and
forestry, is an area of recent colonization, with soils of inferior quality to those of the East,
although with good agricultural potential under systems of careful management.
1.3         The development models emphasizing industrialization and urban growth
which characterized many Latin American countries after the Second World War were not
adopted in Paraguay, which has the region's lowest level of urbanization. Almost 60% of
the population of 4.4 million lives in the rural areas. Instead of a tendency towards rural-
urban migration, with the resultant increase in the number of marginalized poor experienced
by so many countries, Paraguay has achieved a deconcentration of its population through
settlement of previously-undeveloped parts of the country.
1.4         Paraguay's economic performance during the past two decades was one of
strong growth (1970-1981), followed by periods of stagnation (1982-1986) and slow recovery
(1987-1992). Between 1970-1981, GDP grew at an annual rate of 8.1% in real terms, equal
to 4.7% per capita; the main driving forces were a major and sustained increase in
agricultural production and exports and the construction of joint-venture hydro-electric
projects with neighboring countries at Itaipui and Yacyreta on the Parana river. A
combination of external and domestic factors caused the recession. Reduced capital flows



- 2 -
associated with the completion of the ItaipiI project coincided with falling world prices for
key agricultural commodities and adverse weather conditions (floods in 1982-1983 and
drought in 1985-1986). The resultant pressures on the balance of payments, the level of
economic activity, employment and tax revenues were met with a hesitant and inadequate
policy response. The multiple exchange rate policy, in particular, which started in the early
1980s, introduced severe distortions that were compounded by large fiscal deficits and
excessive monetary expansion. Since the change in government in early 1989, important
progress has been made in the removal of macroeconomic distortions.
1.5         The agricultural sector's performance since 1970 closely followed that of the
economy as a whole. Its annual growth rate between 1970-1981 was 6%, followed by
virtual stagnation between 1981-1986, renewed growth, of over 8% per year, between 1986-
1990, followed by further stagnation in 1991-1992. Absolute declines in sectoral GDP
occurred in 1983 (-2.4%), in 1986 (-6.1%) and again in 1992 as a result of poor weather
conditions. Renewed growth in the late 1980s occurred in spite of the poor macroeconomic
environment, which indicates that unregistered trade made simple the evasion of multiple
exchange rates and registered export prices (aforos); sectoral GDP grew by 5.2% between
1988-1989, but registered exports of primary commodities increased by more than 80% over
the same period, once the discriminatory measures had been removed. The system of
multiple exchange rates and arbitrarily-determined aforos presented the sector, and
particularly that part oriented towards exports, with an uncertain environment in which to
plan both production and investment. Major sectoral dislocations were avoided because of
the existence of irregular trade channels, which were more readily exploited for unprocessed
commodities (e.g., live cattle, soybeans and timber) than for processed goods (e.g., ginned
cotton), thereby introducing specific allocative distortions into the agricultural sector.
Major Public Institutions in the Sector
1.6         The institutional structure of the agricultural sector has undergone a number of
shifts since the change in government in early 1989. The rigid and centralized decision-
making approach has been modified, although a new equilibrium has not yet been reached.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agricultura v Ganaderia - MAG),
which has overall responsibility for the definition of strategy and policy in the sector, is
being reorganized and restructured; its new and much-debated Carta Organica was signed
into law at the end of 1992. The Rural Welfare Institute (Instituto de Bienestar Rural - IBR),
which is responsible for the colonization of new areas and settlement of small farmers, is
also in the process of being restructured; whilst it has achieved much of its mandate, and was
largely responsible for the opening-up of new areas and consequent increases in production
and exports particularly of cotton, it is widely recognized as having been inefficient and
corrupt, problems that its present management is working hard to correct. In order to
overcome problems of implementation in rural and regional development projects, the
National Office of Project Coordination and Administration (Oficina Nacional de
Administraci6n v Coordinaci6n de Provectos - ONCAP) was established in 1983 on an inter-
ministerial basis; with recent organizational changes, it has come fully under the control of
MAG as the National Directorate for Project Coordination and Administration (Direcci6n
Nacional de Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n de ProvecEos - DINCAP). Agricultural credit
has been provided (in part from Bank and Inter-American Development Bank resources) via
the Livestock Fund (Fondo Ganadero - FG) at the Central Bank (Banco Central del Paraguay



- 3 -
- BCP), the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Fomento - BNF) and the
Smallholder Credit Agency (Credito Agricola de Habilitaci6n -CAH), as well as via
rediscounts made available by the BCP through private sector agro-industrial and marketing
channels.
Natural Resource Use in Agriculture
1.7         The different stages of Paraguay's agricultural development have all been
extractive and/or exploitive of natural resources. With land as an abundant factor, the
natural renewal of fertility and the low level of intensity of land use allowed this to operate
as a sustainable form of production for a long period. Beginning in the early 1970s,
however, the agricultural sector and the economy as a whole underwent important structural
changes. The Government's major road-building programs quickly put huge, and hitherto
undeveloped, areas within economic access, and large tracts of state land (tierras fiscales)
were distributed to both large and small farmers. Large-scale internal migration of peasants
occurred, coupled with the arrival of significant numbers of farmers from neighboring
countries, mainly Brazil. Only in the past 30 years has a truly national agrarian economy
been created, and the different phases of evolution of the agricultural sector have left their
mark on the structures of land-holding and production. Indigenous hunter/gatherers,
extensive cattle ranchers, and minifundio/microfundio subsistence farmers are all present, in
addition to numerous forms of production based on small-, medium- and large-scale
commercial farms.
1.8          As recently as the early 1950s, the agricultural sector was slow growing, based
on the extraction of forest resources, extensive cattle raising and crop production, and mainly
oriented to domestic consumption with few export products. By the 1980s, the agricultural
sector had become one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy, driven by export
demand and based on the growth of production via an extension of the cultivated area. This
major sectoral growth resulted from the strategy adopted in the early 1960s to promote
agricultural and agro-industrial exports. Public sector expenditure in infrastructure (mainly
roads) and land settlement was combined with private sector investment encouraged by the
stable economic and political environment. Between 1960-1970, an estimated 400,000
people moved to the new lands of the east and north-east. The early emphasis on settling
peasants was partly replaced by the introduction of larger-scale operations, with significant
capital resources and a modern, higher technology approach to agriculture. The Eastern
Region received a major inflow of settlers from Brazil, where the agricultural frontiers of
Parana and Mato Grosso do Sul were rapidly being reached. As a result, colonization by
Paraguayans and Brazilians has rapidly transformed an area of natural forest into one of
major agricultural growth in a period of twenty years. The biggest changes have been
experienced in the Departments of Alto Parand and Itapua.
1.9          This social and economic development strategy has increased the absolute and
relative importance of the agricultural sector, but this has not had a balanced impact on the
rural population. In particular, deforestation has pushed the remaining indigenous
communities into ever-smaller areas, for the most part inadequate to support their traditional
way of life. The acceleration of agricultural growth at the expense of the natural forest has
meant that the frontier of agricultural production based on the extension of the cultivated area
will soon be reached. In general terms, forest clearing has been indiscriminate, with little



- 4 -
regard paid to slopes, soil types, land use category or natural water courses. The driving
forces have been the land distribution policies themselves, cheap credit, absence of taxation,
and the lack of enforcement of land-use restrictions embedded in the forestry law and in
frontier controls (e.g., on logwood exports). The rate of deforestation and incorporation of
land into productive use has, in fact, accelerated in the aftermath of the change in
government in 1989, as large land-owners have sought to avoid illegal occupation by the
land-less and/or expropriation by the State for settlement purposes. In addition, there is a
potentially serious problem of increasing degradation and erosion of soils in the areas already
taken into production; there is, in general, a wholly inadequate application of existing
knowledge and technology in the area of soil management. Much of the feeder road network
itself contributes to erosion, as a result of poor alignment and construction which do not
follow the conservation requirements dictated largely by the topography.
1.10         After more than two decades of dynamic agricultural growth, Paraguay is
rapidly approaching a crucial juncture in the development of its rural areas; the strategy to be
adopted must go beyond the confines of purely agricultural development, and must emphasize
increases in output and productivity in tandem with a heightened concern with the
environment and the preservation of natural resources. The development potential of the
agricultural sector (in terms of under-utilized resources, available technology and markets) is
more than sufficient to allow it to continue to play an important role in economic growth and
development. However, the "easy" phase of Paraguay's agricultural development is coming
to an end. A structural change is required from the present policy of continuous expansion
of the agricultural frontier to a strategy of intensification of resource use through sustainable
agricultural practices. Given the importance of the small farmer and the pioneering nature of
much of the agricultural development achieved to date, a change in priorities in public sector
expenditure, both capital and recurrent, will be required if rational and sustainable growth is
to be achieved in future.
1.11         The challenge now facing the government is that of orchestrating the change
from horizontal development (i.e., expansion of the productive area) to the vertical
development of agriculture by adopting measures to improve productivity: the strategy
adopted must take account of the major population growth being experienced. The key
issues in the agricultural sector are: (a) the use and protection of natural resources in
sustainable agricultural production systems; (b) the skewed distribution of land, and the land
tenure system; (c) the weakness and fragmentation of sector institutions; (d) the lack of
agricultural strategy and policy, and of information for their formulation; (e) the low level of
taxation of agriculture and the lack of efficient tax instruments; and (f) the growing pressure
on indigenous communities in the competition for natural resources.
Previous Bank Lending
1.12         Since 1975, the Bank has undertaken seven operations in the agricultural
sector; the two most recent were the Eje Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 2141-PA,
which closed at the end of 1991) and the Caazapa Area Development Project (Loan 2087-
PA, the Closing Date of which was extended to December 1993 in order to assist with
recovery from severe flooding). Although an agricultural development project for the
Departments of Alto Parana and Itapua was prepared (with Bank and FAO/CP assistance) in
the mid-1980s, it was not appraised by the Bank because of its major disagreements with the



Government's macroeconomic policies, mainly the multiple exchange rate policy then in
force. Following the re-opening of the dialogue between the Government of Paraguay (GOP)
and the Bank, in March 1992 the Board approved a loan to support the Land Use
Rationalization Project, designed to improve the Government's land information base via the
creation of a new rural cadastre and Geographic Information System. The most recent
Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 9147-PA) was issued in Grey Cover on
October 15, 1991.
Lessons from Previous Projects in Paraguay
1.13        Four main lessons have been learned from the Bank's involvement in the
agricultural sector in Paraguay. Institutional weakness has been a recurrent theme. The
MAG is currently being reorganized and restructured, and the former ONCAP now comes
clearly under the control of MAG as DINCAP (para. 1.6). There have been serious
problems of inter-ministerial coordination in the past in integrated rural and area development
projects, which ONCAP was only partially successful in resolving. Research and extension
have been weak, particularly where the public sector and small farmers are concerned.
There has been a marked reluctance on the part of the Government to be innovative, and
both research and extension have been consistently under-funded. What has been achieved
has mostly been done by the private sector, including cooperatives, which has mainly worked
with imported, adapted technology. The organization of farmers has been poorly developed,
mainly because of the previous government's lack of support for groupings of small farmers.
As a result, many of the services typically provided by such groupings (e.g., input supply,
savings mobilization, product processing and marketing) are only now becoming developed in
the areas dominated by small farmers. Little attention has been paid in the past to
conservation of natural resources. This is a consequence of the strategy of area expansion
that has underlain agricultural development, but it is also the result of the weaknesses
described above in research and extension, which have failed to appreciate the long-term
consequences of inappropriate farming methods and technology.
Lessons from General Bank Experience
1.14        The Bank's concern over the environmental implications of development has
increased steadily for more than two decades. An Operations Evaluation Study by the Bank
entitled "Renewable Resource Management in Agriculture" (December 1989) examined
experience with 335 completed projects from the period 1965-1986 to identify lessons for
future policy and project initiatives. The report concluded that, in general, the Bank's
economic and sector work (ESW) did not provide the strategic framework for defining the
main resource management issues in any given country and, therefore, could not define the
options for dealing with them. The report argued that the Bank should take a leading role in
clarifying issues, options and strategies that would ultimately lead to fundamental changes in
the way renewable resources are used.
1.15        The country case studies included in the report showed a wide divergence in
the nature and extent of resource management issues which affect economic development.
The report emphasized that, until the late 1960s, issues of sustainability and equity were not
raised in the discussion of the use of natural resources, the impression being that many, if
not most, countries had large, under-exploited resources, the rapid exploitation of which was



necessary in order to accelerate economic development. Paraguay would certainly have
fallen into this category. Commenting on the impact of ESW, the report defined four basic
weaknesses:
(a)   the policy recommendations that were made were unrealistic in practice;
(b)   there was no comprehensive overview of developments in any given country
which had an impact on the use of renewable resources;
(c)   the Bank, therefore, by design or by default, appeared to be largely unaware
of the major changes affecting resource management within that country; and
(d)   little had been done to assess how the actors, and the institutions governing
their interactions, had created the policies, bureaucracies and decisions that
had undermined sustainable development.
1.16         Twelve individual country studies were included in the report's analysis, and
above all serve to demonstrate the diverse nature of issues of natural resource management in
different countries. Excessive faith has frequently been placed in technical solutions, with
insufficient attention paid to the political realities which underlie policy formulation and
implementation where the opening-up of new land is concerned. Project experience has also
illustrated the importance of sectoral inter-relationships in resource management. In a
number of countries, the Bank has had little success in persuading government to accept the
priorities and policies identified or to implement the programs and projects necessary to
address the issues. The weakness of institutions and the inadequacy of the resource
inventories and data bases used for planning have been a frequent shortcoming, and are areas
in which the Bank has taken initiatives through projects. In only one case, Malaysia, was
resource management felt to have been sophisticated, aided by a sound technical civil
service, good resource information and effective implementing agencies. The pattern of
development was considered sustainable, but forest policy was felt to have erred, possibly on
the side of conservation, and other issues quickly swarmed up to fill the void (e.g., the trade-
off between equity and efficiency, large versus small size in agricultural operations, public
sector versus private enterprise).
1.17         The conclusion was that ESW had not provided either governments or the
Bank with a strategic, inter-sectoral framework for policy and action. As a result, project
lending had done little to promote sustainable development or the equitable distribution of
benefits. Since environmental issues vary widely between countries, a standardized approach
to analyzing issues would be inappropriate. The relevance of ESW should be increased for
countries where resource degradation is of critical importance. This should include, inter
alia, discussions of policy options and institutional constraints, and the strengthening of the
information base in order to improve policy for natural resource management.
1.18        A number of useful lessons can be learned from the Bank's experience in
financing projects under the Integrated Development Program for North-West Brazil
(Polonoroeste). In the construction of a major system of trunk and feeder roads, the
government's strategy was to constrain the development of the fragile areas and those
occupied by indigenous people and to promote non-exploitive and sustainable systems of



-7-
agricultural production and forest use in the appropriate areas. The program was perceived
as having only a marginal impact on reversing the destructive pattern of land occupation and
use which began in the 1970s. Mid-term review showed clearly that key planning parameters
could quickly become invalid, mainly outside the control of the implementing agencies. The
environment provided by policies, regulations and investment programs actually encouraged
the depletion of the natural resource base and engendered a major contrast between the
economic costs of the non-sustainable use of resources and the high financial gains to the
private beneficiaries of the policies.
1. 19       The main lessons learned from the program were:
(a)   public sector investments in frontier-area development should be based on a
sound knowledge of the sustainable development potential of the area. Agro-
ecological zoning to guide public investments should be an essential condition
for future projects in such areas, and the policy and regulation framework
should be made fully consistent with the technical aspects of zoning. [In the
proposed project, although the Alto Paran-Itapiia area is no longer a frontier
between unexploited forest and cultivation, the need for knowledge of the
sustainable development potential is crucial to the halting and eventual reversal
of degradation.];
(b)   the scope and context of project interventions should be sufficient, in number
and importance, to achieve the objectives of the project;
(c)   centralized decision-making (in this case, at the federal level) is detrimental to
the efficient implementation of project initiatives. Decentralization, including
control over budgetary resources, is essential, and an enhanced role for NGOs
in implementation improves accountability to the ultimate beneficiaries;
(d)   where development depends upon long-term financing, careful analysis should
be made of the availability of credit and the suitability of its terms. Where
credit is not available, and where the failure of the development strategy might
result in resource degradation, the Bank should make special provisions for
credit in the project or not support the project at all;
(e)   innovative projects need a system of monitoring and evaluation capable of
generating early warnings about problems of impact and implementation, and
the project design itself should be flexible enough to allow for the introduction
of timely corrective measures;
(f)    a longer start-up period and less-optimistic assumptions concerning the rate of
farm development should be used for projects in relatively unknown or
difficult environments; and
(g)   the physical demarcation of conservation units (e.g., forest reserves) or land
allocations to indigenous people is a necessary but not sufficient condition for
their protection. Strong disincentives and enforcement capacity are also
required to ensure the integrity of such protected areas.



1.20         In the design of the proposed project, therefore, close attention was paid to the
specific lessons learned from projects in Paraguay and to the more general lessons from
wider Bank lending. With respect to natural resources management and environmental
issues, the proposed project is the direct result of the dialogue between the Bank and the
Government. It emphasizes the need for a radically-altered strategy, aimed at the
development of sustainable agriculture, and represents an essential step in putting the strategy
into action.
Bank Lending Strategy for the Sector
1.21         The Bank's country assistance objectives and strategy have been defined
through intensive mission contacts since the change of government in early 1989. Bank
strategy is to support Paraguay's shift from an extensive model of agricultural expansion to
growth through intensification, with emphasis being placed on sustainable agriculture within
a framework of natural resource management and environmental protection. The
Government is beset by short- and medium-term problems in the rural areas concerning the
increasingly vocal and frequently militant landless peasants. Whilst the resolution of these
problems is important, the Bank's key role is to assist the Government to plan strategically
for the long term and to assist in the implementation of key projects to achieve the objectives
of the strategy. The Bank should, therefore, support those initiatives which: (a) improve the
Government's knowledge base and policy-making capacity; (b) promote the rational
management of natural resources; (c) improve the institutional capacity of the sector; and (d)
improve the productivity and well-being of smallholders.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.22         The agricultural sector of Paraguay faces a number of serious issues in its
future development. These issues cannot be resolved in a single project. The present
approach to natural resource use and agricultural development strategy must both undergo a
major transformation. The Bank's role is to assist the Government in the definition of the
issues and in the mobilization of the resources needed to deal with them. The transition from
an extensive agriculture, careless in its use of natural resources, to more intensive and
sustainable agriculture in a framework of appropriate natural resource management will
require: (a) an improved knowledge of land ownership, its capability and actual use; (b) an
enhanced role for the Government in the provision of basic services which will itself require
major institutional change; and (c) the preparation and introduction of the necessary
framework of incentives and restrictions concerning land use. The Bank, through its existing
activities and the proposed project, is closely involved with the Government in the process of
acquiring the basic knowledge necessary to satisfy these requirements.
1.23         The policy framework to which farmers have responded in the "extensive"
phase of Paraguay's agricultural development has begun to change and must change further.
There is little, if any, state-owned land remaining for distribution and land clearing is no
longer driven by subsidized credit. The Bank, through the Land Use Rationalization Project
and the implementation of Japanese PHRD grants, is playing a key role in the definition of
natural resource management issues and the available means to resolve them. The multi-
purpose cadastre will provide the Government with the necessary technical basis to tax
agriculture; in a planned future operation, the cadastre data base would be employed to



- 9 -
improve the system of land titling, which is essential for the realization of long-term on-farm
investment. The work being carried out under the first PHRD grant, executed by the Bank,
will provide detailed technical information on natural resources and on the policy and legal
framework controlling and influencing their use. The basic recommendations will be
implemented by the proposed project at the level of catchment area and individual farm
planning, in order to demonstrate their value on a pilot basis. The application of the agreed
recommendations at the level of the whole Eastern Region would be pursued under the
Natural Resources Management II Project, the preparation of which is to begin shortly under
a third Japanese PHRD Grant.
1.24        The proposed project would address many issues which are generic to
agriculture in the whole of the Eastern Region, and their successful resolution in the project
area would allow the replication of the project in other areas. Bank involvement in the
conception and preparation of this project has already been a catalyst in the definition of a
new approach to the use of natural resources in Paraguay. Though still at a very early stage,
this approach is the only realistic hope of sustaining the growth of output in the long term
and of mitigating the effects of the migration of landless and impoverished people into the
urban sector.
II. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN AND CONCEPT
2.1         The initial project identification mission took place in November 1989,
following discussions with the Government in which it emphasized to the Bank the
importance of agriculture and agro-industry to the achievement of its long-term economic
development goals. The project concept was centered on the regional agricultural
development of the Departments of Alto Parana and the north of Itapuia. With Bank
involvement, a project had earlier been prepared for this area but had not been processed
because of disagreement between the Government and the Bank concerning the major
macroeconomic policy distortions then in effect (para. 1.12). On re-examining the project in
late-1989, it became apparent that agricultural activity in the 1980s in the project area had
developed in such a way that the emphasis must now be placed on promoting rational and
sustainable land use and agricultural systems in the framework of natural resource
management. It also became clear that major changes are required in the country's overall
agricultural development strategy, and that the Bank's support should be designed to assist in
its definition and implementation. A key requirement for this is the provision of land
information, and "national level" components were proposed including a new rural cadastre
and a Geographic Information System.
2.2         At the GOP's request, technical assistance was provided by the Bank in late
1990 for the preparation of these national level components, which were separated in early
1991 to form the Land Use Rationalization Project. A loan to support this project (Loan
3445-PA) was approved by the Bank's Board in March, 1992, and signed in April, 1992.



- 10 -
2.3          A lack of definition concerning institutional roles and responsibilities in
Paraguay, in particular the creation and ultimate demise of the National Rural Development
Coordination Council (CONCODER), delayed the start of project preparation. Preparation
missions commenced in early 1990, including joint missions between the Bank and the
FAO/CP, which provided support to the Technical Department (GT) of MAG and to
ONCAP. In mid-1991, preparation work commenced in full and the preparation report was
sent to the Bank by the GOP in December, 1991.
2.4          The Eastern Region of Paraguay covers 160,000 km2 and contains 98% of the
country's population. The high proportion of cultivable soils and adequate, well-distributed
rainfall have been the basis of a major expansion in export-oriented crop production since the
1960s. The increase in the cultivated area at the expense of the natural forest has caused
deforestation at the rate of over 100,000 ha per year for the past two decades, and this has
accelerated markedly since 1989; soil degradation and erosion are increasingly serious
problems. Nowhere is this problem clearer than in the project area of Alto Parana and
Itapua. Clearly, this process is incompatible with the long-term sustainable development of
agriculture and a new approach to the sector is urgently needed. This approach requires a
major investment in the technical and institutional capacity to monitor and control land
exploitation, combined with an increase in services aimed at intensifying production and
conserving soils on land that has already been brought into production.
2.5          The proposed project has modest objectives compared to the problems which
face the area. It is not designed to halt deforestation. It should be recognized that there is
little dialogue between the GOP and the medium- and large-scale farmers in the project area
who are responsible for most of the environmental damage. The project would provide the
ground-work for the implementation of incentives and controls concerning land use, but the
lack of suitable long-term credit would be a significant impediment to changing farming and
land-use practices.
B. OBJECTIVES
2.6          The objectives of the project would be: (a) to establish the institutional
framework necessary to deal with the major agricultural and natural resource problems of the
project area; (b) to generate information through research and implement an area-wide
system of natural resource protection; (c) assist small farmers in the establishment of
sustainable, diversified agricultural production systems and conservation measures; and (d) to
encourage the direct participation of the local population in project implementation. The
project would increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers, to enable them to
accumulate capital and put the development process on a self-sustaining basis. It would seek
to alter the attitudes of the rural community toward natural resource management and to
develop a consensus on its importance and value. The project would seek the participation of
the population in the project through the stimulation of cooperatives, local government and
other institutions.
2.7          The project would promote: (a) agricultural production systems to increase
output and income via improved productivity; (b) the management of natural resources via
appropriate land use planning; and (c) an increase in value-added, through processing and
improved marketing. The project would represent a first phase of a continuing initiative to



- 11 -
alter radically the way in which natural resources are used in agriculture. As such, it would
strengthen institutions, undertake pilot programs (e.g., in watershed management and small-
farmer credit supply) and develop a strong information base in conjunction with the
Geographic Information System and resource inventory to be implemented under the Land
Use Rationalization Project (Ln. 3445-PA). This phase would allow the design and
implementation of one or more project initiatives, which could overlap in time with the
proposed project, which would involve the larger-scale producers that occupy a large part of
the area.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Introduction
2.8          Four main lines of strategic action are proposed to achieve the project
objectives, to encourage self-sustained and efficient development whilst conserving the
natural resource base:
(a)   a systems approach would be adopted to integrate the demands of agricultural
production with the need to conserve and protect natural resources. The basic
planning unit for the formulation of plans would be the rainfall catchment area
(micro-cuenca);
(b)   changes would be made in the way in which the public sector institutions of
the agricultural sector function in the project area; this will involve
decentralization, regional responsibility for natural resource management, and
the creation of a Regional Project Execution Unit with spending authority;
(c)   intensive training of producers and their families concerning organization,
resource use, and marketing; and
(d)   rehabilitation and realignment of existing roads to mitigate negative
environmental impacts.
2.9          The project area occupies the Department of Alto Paranr and that part of the
Department of Itapuia lying to the north of the Rio Pirap6 plus the District of Bella Vista to
its south (see Map No. 24201). The area covers a significant portion of that part of the
Parana watershed lying in Paraguayan territory and up-stream of the Itaipui and Yacyreta
hydro-electric dams. The climate is humid sub-tropical, with well-distributed average annual
rainfall of 1,700 mm and an average minimum temperature of 17°c. The natural vegetation
is composed of semi-moist Atlantic forest, open grassland, low-lying (i.e., floodable) areas
and scrub-land. The forest has suffered the greatest deterioration and the remaining natural
forest, for the most part, can only be considered as residual. The soils of the area are
mainly lateritic, with good natural fertility but fragile in their structure and susceptible to
erosion. Some 70% of the soils are of Classes II and III, which allows agricultural use with
few (but important) limitations; inappropriate use rapidly acidifies these soils, reduces their
fertility and causes erosion, which is particularly marked on those areas of pronounced slopes
and those without vegetation cover during periods of heavy rains. Agriculture is dominated
by soya/wheat production on large farms and subsistence crops plus cotton as a cash-crop on



- 12 -
small-holdings. The area has experienced a major increase in population in recent decades;
between 1972-1982, it grew by 62%, compared to 28% at the national level, and between
1982-1992 it grew by 69%, compared to 36% at the national level. The population of the
project area is estimated at 500,000, of which 57% lives in rural areas.
Project Components
2.10         The project would be implemented over eight years, and would have five
components as described in Table 1:
Table 1. Project Components
Responsible
Component/Sub-component      Institutions                 Objectives
Agzricultural Development:
Agricultural Production and      MAG        Increase agricultural output within sustainable,
Natural Resources Management                diversified systems.
Forestry and Environmental       MAG        Increase protected areas and forestry research.
Conservation
Training, Social Organization    MAG        Develop agro-industry and marketing through
and Technical Assistance                    producers' organizations.
Natural Resources                MAG        Encourage conservation-oriented investment at
Conservation Fund (FOCORN)                  the farm level.
Indigenous Communities:       INDI/MECI   Improvement of security and well-being.
MSPBS                                                 l
Infrastructural Development:    MOPC        Mitigate the negative environmnental impact of
Rural Roads                                 existing roads.
Institutional Development:       MAG        Decentralize management by encouraging local
and more democratic participation.
Pilot Agricultural Credit:       CAH        Increase production by smallest farmers using
sound environmental practices.
2.11         The design of the project's implementation structure involves a decentralization
of authority and recognizes the need to coordinate a large number of institutions. Three new
units, to be created by MAG, would be responsible for project implementation. These would
be:
(a)   the Project Technical and Administrative Coordination Unit (Unidad de
Coordinaci6n Tecnica y Administraci6n del Provecto - UCTAP) which would
be responsible for overall project management and coordination;



- 13 -
(b)   the Rural Research and Training Center (Centro de Investigaci6n y
Capacitaci6n Rural - CICAR) which would be responsible for research and for
channelling extension services under the project; and
(c)   the Regional Environmental Center (Centro Regional Ambiental del Este -
CRAE) which would be responsible for all environmental protection activities.
Agricultural Development Component
2.12        The key characteristics of the project area which have heavily influenced the
design of this component include the increasing emphasis on mono-cropping, the
deterioration of natural resources as a consequence of deforestation and inappropriate
agricultural practices, the rapid decline in productivity related to the deterioration of soils,
and the poor coverage of agricultural support services. The component would assist in
restructuring the productive process towards sustainable, conservation-oriented agriculture.
The component would be based on: (a) a reorientation of the institutional apparatus
concerned with promoting organization and technology; (b) a reorientation of the traditional
productive focus; (c) the involvement of the population and its organizations; (d) an emphasis
on sustainability and resource conservation in the development of operational plans; and (e)
an emphasis on diversification. The component would directly reach about 7,900 farm
families, which represent about 22% of farmers in the target group of under 200 ha, and
would affect about 12% of the area covered by the project.
2.13        The component would cost US$46.4 million, including contingencies, (which
represents 58.6% of total costs) of which US$32.0 million would represent investment costs
including structures, purchase of vehicles and equipment, land acquisition, on-farm
investments in resource protection, training and technical assistance. The component would
have four sub-components.
2.14        The Agricultural Production and Natural Resources Management sub-
component would achieve its objectives via three programs of action: (a) Natural Resource
Zoning and Agro-ecological Extension; (b) Agricultural Research; and (c) Agro-forestry
Research.
2.15        The Natural Resource Zoning and Agro-ecological Extension program would
plan and implement actions designed to slow down and ultirnately to reverse the degradation
of soils and other natural resources. Several activities are already in progress in pursuit of
this objective. The first PHRD grant, executed by the Bank, is being used within the
framework of the Land Use Rationalization Project (Ln. 3445-PA) to provide the technical
basis for agro-ecological zoning and an analysis of the existing legal and policy instruments,
with detailed recommendation for change, where necessary. This work is being carried out
in close cooperation with the SSRNMA, which will ultimately be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the Geographic Information System, and is expected to be
completed by early 1994. It was agreed at negotiations that, once the work is completed,
and no later than June 30, 1994, the results would be formally reviewed jointly by the Bank
and the Government. At that stage, agreement would be sought on the appropriate
mechanisms and timetable for the implementation of agreed measures, which in turn would
be included in an action plan to be furnished to the Bank no later than December 31, 1994



- 14 -
(para. 3.1 (a)). The technical basis for land-use zoning would be adopted in the project area
in the design of catchment area plans and individual farm plans, in order to test
recommendations on a pilot basis. The second PHRD grant is being employed in the
preparation of a detailed watershed analysis and protection master plan for the proposed
project area. A more complete application of land-use zoning applied to the whole of the
Eastern Region would be supported under the proposed Natural Resources Management II
Project, on which preparation will shortly begin under the third PHRD grant.
2.16        A total of 7,900 farms would be targeted under the sub-component, of which
5,700 would be assisted through agro-ecological extension and 2,200 through technical
assistance in soil conservation and mechanization. Natural resource management would
focus on the selection of 50 critical catchment areas (micro-cuencas) of approximately 3,000
ha each within the watersheds of the Acaray, Monday and Tembey rivers; for each of these
catchment areas, the project would design detailed management plans. These would be
prepared in consultation and implemented with the support of the Local Natural Resource
Management Groups (Junta Vecinal para la Conservaci6n de Recursos Naturales - JVCRN).
2.17        The Agricultural Research program would address the basic weakness of
research in the project area, which has failed to support agricultural production either
through the generation or adaptation of technology. The program would provide specific
alternatives for production which are agronomically suitable for the area, for which there is
market demand, and which fit in with sustainable production systems and natural resource
management. Other research priorities would include appropriate mechanized cultivation
methods and innovative production technology. A total of 76 research projects is proposed,
14 of which would include the strengthening of activities already in progress, and would be
divided almost equally between diversification and technological change.
2.18        The program of Agro-forestry Research would develop and test promising
agro-forestry systems. Research would be conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of
specialists, combining on-farm and on-station research in order to allow control while
incorporating the practical lessons at the farm level. In the 50 selected catchment areas, a
total of 800 ha of agro-forestry research plots would be established and monitored at five
MAG centers and on farmers' land where the entire farm would be included in the agro-
forestry system. The research design for each plot would accommodate: (a) inter-planting
of annual and perennial plants on contour lines; (b) enrichment planting of degraded forests;
(c) silvo-pastoral management; and (d) reforestation on deforested and degraded sites.
2.19        The Forestry and Environmental Conservation sub-component would
achieve its objectives via three programs of action: (a) Forestry Research; (b) Environmental
Control (enforcement); and (c) Support for the Protected Areas.
2.20        The Forestry Research program would ameliorate one of the most serious
consequences of the rapid deforestation experienced in the project area, the extinction of
commercially-valuable species. It would protect, conserve and recuperate the genetic
diversity of the area, and develop activities of research, reforestation and technology
generation. Genetic material would be classified, stored and multiplied via a germplasm
bank, and an arboretum would be established. The long-term research into the silvicultural
characteristics, growth rates and uses of native tree species would be initiated, so that



- 15 -
information would be available where needed for large-scale reforestation. The project
would also develop sustainable forest management systems and appropriate small-scale wood
utilization technologies that would help to give value to the remnants of forests on farmers'
holdings. This would include an assessment of secondary (i.e., non-wood) forest products.
2.21        The Environmental Control program would begin to implement the
environmental legislation which already exists, taking steps to strengthen it and the
institutions involved. Three new control posts would be established in the area, and the five
existing control posts would be strengthened. A manual of regulations and procedures would
be prepared, which would also serve as the basis for the issuing of Municipal By-laws
concerning natural resource use. The program would also develop and implement a mass
media education program.
2.22        The Protected Areas program would strengthen the institutional presence in
existing forestry reserves and national parks, and would take steps to increase the overall size
of the protected area. At present, there are only 31,300 ha of protected areas, of which
29,200 ha is under the control of Itaipu Binacional (the binational entity responsible for
operation of the Itaipu hydro-electric project). The program would: (a) strengthen the
institutional presence in the existing protected areas; (b) create a new national park in the
Cordillera de San Rafael, defined as the major priority for environmental protection in the
Alto Parana "eco-region"; (c) undertake the preparatory studies for the creation of new
national parks in the watersheds of the Monday and Tembey rivers; and (d) develop
management plans for the Kyri'y reserve and the protection area of the Nacunday river.
2.23        The boundaries of the proposed San Rafael National Park have been defined,
and the park has been created by Decree. The existing ownership of the land is being
defined from available cadastral data. Most of the owners of the land within the boundaries
of the park do not live on their land, and it is anticipated that the number of people who
could eventually be affected by the need to resettle is substantially less than 200. It would be
a condition of disbursement of the program that if the Government were to undertake a
resettlement action affecting the population living within the boundaries of the Park, it would
present to the Bank a resettlement plan, including a compensation plan, satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.3 (a)). In addition, it was agreed that the Government would carry out such a
resettlement plan in accordance with its terms. The draft Terms of Reference for the
preparatory studies for new national parks (para. 3.1 (c)), and the draft management plans
for the Kyri'y reserve and the Nacunday protection area (para. 3.1 (d)) were agreed at
negotiations.
2.24        Training, Social Organization and Technical Assistance. The Training and
Social Organization programs would support the development of organizations, particularly
those of agricultural producers. Three basic forms of organization have been identified for
support: (a) cooperatives, which in spite of their maturity in the project area need
strengthening in terms of their structures and operations; (b) committees and pre-cooperatives
promoted by public sector bodies and Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs); and (c)
municipalities. The programs would develop the organizational and management capabilities
of producers and would strengthen organizations in their role of catalyst of community
development. A total of 19 existing and 8 new cooperatives, 27 municipalities, and 350 non-
formal farmers' groups would be assisted.



- 16 -
2.25        The Technical Assistance program would concentrate on three activities. In
Agro-industry, it would promote an increase in activity to diversify, increase and add value
to marketable output. It would provide support to cooperatives, local firms and other
organizations. For Credit, it would provide support in two areas: (a) training in management
for obtaining access to credit; and (b) studies designed to allow the development of
cooperatives into financial entities. For Marketing, it would provide basic market research
information and improve marketing capabilities. If justified, a second-tier marketing
cooperative could be created. The marketing information data base would be developed and
marketing activities undertaken.
2.26        The Natural Resources Conservation Fund (FOCORN) sub-component has
been designed as a pilot program to make available grant resources to producers to encourage
them to undertake on-farm, and in some cases inter-farm, investments designed to correct
damage caused, via erosion and soil degradation, by the indiscriminate incorporation of land
into agricultural production. The FOCORN would follow a strategy involving the
organization of producers in the catchment areas most at risk and the promotion of
technology designed to conserve resources and sustain agricultural production. Due to the
limited resources of FOCORN (US$5.0 million), on-farm investments would be selected to
emphasize innovation and their demonstration effect.
2.27        The FOCORN would be managed by the UCTAP and would be applied in 50
catchment areas in the watersheds of the Monday, Tembey and Acaray rivers, representing
approximately 3,000 producers on 150,000 ha. The individual catchment area would be the
basic planning unit; in the project area, the catchment area is typically of 2-3,000 ha and
contains an average of 60 production units.
2.28        The UCTAP will be responsible for the preparation of the development plans
to be followed in the individual catchment areas, and would authorize and control the
disbursement of FOCORN resources at the farm and community level. The preparation of
plans may be carried out by consultants under the control of UCTAP. The provision of
resources from the FOCORN would follow a three-phase process:
(a)   In the first phase, the physical characteristics of the catchment area would be
analyzed and a resource management plan prepared, including a statement of
priorities and goals and a chronogram of activities. Technical assistance
would be provided to organized groups of producers to carry out activities of
common interest. Planning of the individual farn or holding would be carried
out by technicians directly with the farmer, and technical assistance would be
provided directly to the producer in the implementation of the farm-level plan.
(b)   In the second phase, the plan would be approved by the local office of CICAR
and by the Operations Committee of the UCTAP.
(c)   In the third phase, financial resources would be made available up to 50% of
the total investment defined under the plan. These payments would range
between US$500 and US$1,100 for the small and medium-sized farmers. A
small number of farmers (less than 200) with holdings of between 200-300 ha.
occupying strategic locations within the catchment areas would receive up to



- 17 -
US$2,500. Staged payments to farmers would be contingent upon certificates
of completed work.
2.29        The financial resources of the FOCORN would also be managed by the
UCTAP. The operation of the FOCORN would be governed by a set of Regulations, a draft
of which was agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (e)). The approval of the Regulations
would be a condition of disbursement of the sub-component (para. 3.3 (b)). The
establishment of the FOCORN and the opening of a bank account in the BNF would also be
a condition of disbursement of the sub-component (para. 3.3 (b)). Drafts of the Operating
Manual of the FOCORN and of the Model Contract to be entered into with the producers
were agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (e)). The financial resources of the FOCORN
would be made available to individuals and to groups of producers.
Indigenous Communities Component
2.30        The component would cost US$3.4 million, including contingencies (4.3% of
total costs) of which US$2.4 million would represent investment costs including the
acquisition of land, purchase of vehicles and equipment, and technical assistance. The
component would have four sub-components. The entry into effect of the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement (SGA) under which loan funds would be transferred, on a grant basis, to INDI
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.2 (a)).
2.31        The component would provide assistance to the remaining indigenous
population of the project area, a total of 1,285 families in 27 communities of the Tupi
Guarani group. The profound changes wrought on the traditional way of life of the
indigenous population by the rapid growth of agriculture at the expense of the natural forest
have reached a critical stage. The survival of these groups over the long term depends on
the implementation of an integrated program of support for health, education, land tenure and
agricultural production. The component would support these groups, and would improve
their security and well-being.
2.32        In the Land Security sub-component, the project would regularize land tenancy
and expand the areas dedicated to indigenous people. An additional 6,515 ha would be
acquired to be added to the 6,343 ha already occupied (but in need of regularization). The
Paraguayan Institute for Indigenous People (Instituto Paraguayo del Indigena - INDI) with
IBR would process the legal status of communities as well as the purchase of land to be
financed from Government's contribution to the project. The entry into effect of the
contractual arrangement between INDI and IBR would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (para. 3.2 (b)). Law 43/89 would be the principal instrument to regularize
land tenure. Drafts of the required legal instruments were agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1
(f)), and a dated covenant has been included in the loan agreement for the completion of the
land regularization activities. It was agreed during negotiations that if the Government were
to undertake any resettlement action affecting population living within the area to be
expanded for the benefit of indigenous people, it would provide the Bank, prior to taking any
action, with a resettlement plan (including a compensation plan) satisfactory to the Bank and
implement the plan. As a condition of disbursement, INDI would provide evidence that it
had adopted an accounting system to keep project accounts and prepare SOEs (para. 3.3 (c)).



- 18 -
2.33        The Agricultural Production Support sub-component would support the
diversification and increase of output, in order to improve nutrition and increase incomes to
reduce the dependency of indigenous people on paid work. Livestock production would be
encouraged, and a pilot introduction of dairy cattle would be made into specific communities.
Improved subsistence cropping of up to 3 ha per family, associated with poultry and pig
keeping, would be promoted. The recuperation of degenerated natural forest would be
promoted via agro-forestry technology, the establishment of associated perennial crops (such
as yerba mate and citrus) and sustainable use of the forest.
2.34        The Health sub-component would seek to improve the health of indigenous
people in mother-child care, prevention and control of highly-prevalent diseases, basic
sanitation, health education, and the training and supervision of Health Workers. The sub-
component would be implemented by the Ministry of Health and Welfare (Ministerio de
Salud Publica v Bienestar Social - MSPBS) in conjunction with the UCTAP.
2.35        The Education sub-component would be implemented to consolidate the
indigenous communities. Both primary education and informal (adult) education would be
promoted. The program would be implemented by the Ministry of Education (Ministerio de
Educaci6n y Culto - MEC) in conjunction with the UCTAP.
Infrastructural Development Component
2.36        The cost of the component would be US$15.4 million including contingencies
(19.5% of total costs), of which US$15.1 million would represent investment costs, including
the construction of roads and the acquisition of road maintenance equipment.
2.37        In the project area, several earlier Bank-funded development projects contained
rural road construction, including Eje Este (Ln. 509 and Ln. 1674), Itapua Rural
Development (Ln. 1418), and Route VI Feeder Roads (Ln. 1736). In addition, design work
was done for rural roads in the area in the preparation of the Alto Parana Sur-Itapua Project
(see para 1. 12), some of which have been incorporated into the National Rural Roads
Program (Programa Nacional de Caminos Rurales - PNCR). The existing network of roads
shows wide variation in the quality of surface and construction, and the roads have not
always been well located, either in terms of their connections to the major road network or
the physical terrain. The objective of the component is to realign, rebuild, improve and
maintain existing roads to reduce their negative environmental effects and to follow and
support agro-ecological land use zoning.
2.38        A total of 1,014 km of rural roads has been identified for reconstruction and
improvement, of which 455 km will be implemented during the project. The maintenance
program would be applied to roads reconstructed or improved under the project. The sub-
component would be implemented by the Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras
Publicas y Comunicaciones - MOPC) via its Directorate of Rural Roads (Direcci6n de
Caminos Vecinales - DCV), which is responsible for the PNCR. The Rural Roads Unit
(Unidad de Caminos Rurales - UCR) of the DCV would be responsible for planning,
budgeting, coordinating and monitoring the work. The roads segments selected (see Annex
5, Table 3) do not duplicate any of the road improvements planned to be carried out in the
Eighth Highway Project (Ln. 3685-PA). The maintenance program would be the joint



- 19 -
responsibility of the DCV and the Local Roads Committees (Juntas de Viales Locales -
JVLs) formed in the selected areas by the Municipalities and representatives of the
community.
2.39        The engineering designs would be made in the first year of the project,
undertaken by consultants selected via competitive bidding following a process of pre-
qualification. Construction would be the subject of international competitive bidding (ICB)
following a process of pre-qualification. A draft of the request for pre-qualification and the
terms of reference for road design were agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (g)). A
Schedule of Monitorable Actions associated with road design was also agreed at negotiations
(para. 3.1 (g)). DINCAP would procure the road maintenance equipment following ICB.
Road maintenance and the works of minor improvement would be undertaken by the JVLs,
to which the MOPC/DCV would make available the machinery and equipment provided by
the project. The DCV would define the modus operandi by which the JVLs would obtain
and administer their resources.
Institutional Development Component
2.40        The cost of the component would be US$5.1 million, including contingencies
(6.5% of total costs), of which US$1.3 million would be for investment including the
acquisition of vehicles and equipment, training and technical assistance.
2.41        The responsibility for project management would lie with MAG, which would
rely on DINCAP for overall project coordination including inter-ministerial relations, project
accounting, management of the Special Account, preparation of SOEs and major
procurement. UCTAP would operate at the level of the project area, and MAG would create
by Decree new local regional administrative units necessary for project implementation.
These would include: (a) the UCTAP; (b) the CICAR, to channel research and extension
services to be delivered under the project; and (c) the CRAE, to ensure coordination of all
environmental protection-related project activities. A Regional Operational Committee
(COR) would be established to encourage and promote inter-institutional cooperation at the
regional level.
2.42        The new units will need to coordinate a large number of institutional actors.
Since institutional weakness is an acknowledged risk, a systematic institutional capacity
analysis (ICA) of the intended implementing entities was carried out during project
preparation and loan processing. The ICA led to the identification of institutional capacity
gaps (ICGs) which have been the basis for the design of institutional development inputs.
These inputs have been included either in the respective project components or in the
Institutional Development Component (IDC). The institutions and their capacity gaps are
described in Annex 4.
2.43        The component has been designed to provide inputs necessary to bridge the
identified capacity gaps, and includes: (a) government decisions that are reflected in project
conditionality; (b) specialist assistance to bridge those capacity gaps that require the
introduction of "management and administrative technology" into entities where the gaps
have been identified, or for newly-created entities such as UCTAP; (c) training activities to
bridge identified skill gaps; and (d) financing for incremental recurrent costs, in particular



- 20 -
for the functioning of UCTAP. The component would also include the two special
assessment studies designed to capitalize on the experience gained in the implementation of
pilot activities (i.e., catchment area management plans/FOCORN, and pilot agricultural
credit).
2.44         The component includes 306 man-months of specialist assistance, of which 261
man-months (208 of local consultants and 53 of international) are assigned to the different
components. The remaining 45 man-months (20 local and 25 international) are assigned to
the UCTAP for the strengthening of the coordination and overall management functions.
Three consultants would begin the implementation of the component. An organization
specialist would be hired as soon as possible for a period of 18 months. He would assist
with the establishment of the inter-institutional network agreed for project implementation,
assisted by: (a) a specialist in financial administration/accountant; and (b) a monitoring and
evaluation specialist.
Pilot Agricultural Credit Component
2.45         Larger farmers in the project area have reasonably good access to formal
sources of credit. The BNF and private banks normally require loan collateral of land or
real estate secured with a mortgage. This discourages smaller loans, as the fixed cost for the
borrower of providing this collateral is substantial. Illustrative farm models show that most
small farmers with holdings of less than 20 ha are unlikely to qualify for loans of more than
US$2,000 equivalent. It thus seems certain that farmers in this category will not gain access
to BNF or private banks for their credit needs. For this reason, the project would finance a
special intervention to provide credit to these farmers. Some 5,500 small farmers make up
this target group, and they represent about 60% of the farmers to be directly reached by the
project. At present, only the Smallholder Credit Agency (Credito Agricola de Habilitaci6n -
CAH) operates successfully with farmers of this size.
2.46         A description of CAH's structure and operations is included in Annex 3. Its
primary role is to provide supervised credit and technical assistance (TA) to the smallest
farmers who cannot gain access to more formal sources of financing. In its early years,
CAH gained a reputation for inefficiency and political patronage, but since 1989 the
Government has given CAH new management and budget resources to expand its programs.
To operate more efficiently, CAH is beginning to lend to cooperatives and to individuals
grouped in the pre-cooperative form of an Agricultural Credit Users' Association (Asociaci6n
de Usuarios de Credito Agricola - AUCA).
2.47         The component would cost US$8.8 million, including contingencies (11.1% of
total project costs). Support to CAH would include US$0.6 million of investment which
would finance the acquisition of equipment, training and technical assistance, and US$1.0
million of operating costs.
2.48         The project would include investments by small farmers in productive
activities. The Bank would finance 70% of individual sub-projects, up to a limit of US$5.0
million, in a pilot credit program. In order to receive credit, farmers would have a farm
development plan with conservation/resource management actions agreed with UCTAP and
CAH. Farmers receiving credit would be expected to comply with the restrictions imposed



- 21 -
by the existing and any future laws affecting land use, as well as with the stipulations of the
farm development plan and the catchment area development plan. As a condition of
disbursement for the credit component, CAH would provide evidence that: (a) its staff
assigned to the Project had received adequate training to carry out this part of the project,
including environmental assessment and that its operational procedures are appropriate to
carry out this environmental requirement (para. 3.3 (d) (i)); and (b) it had adopted an
accounting system adequate to keep project accounts, prepare SOEs, and control the arrears
in the project sub-loan portfolio (para. 3.3 (d) (ii)). The project would also finance US$0.5
million of equipment, vehicles and TA to strengthen CAH's operational capability in the
project area, to improve its central administration, and define the existing legal and
operational constraints and disincentives to formal lending to small farmers. CAH would
need training to adopt environmental assessment practices in its review of all farm plans it
finances in the project area. Draft terms of reference for those studies and technical
assistance to be completed in the first two years of the project were agreed during
negotiations (para. 3.1 (h)).
2.49         Lending Terms. The MH, as the representative of the Borrower, would pass
the credit funds to CAH under the terms specified in a Subsidiary Grant Agreement (SGA).
The draft SGA and the matters to be included in the Credit Regulations were agreed upon
during negotiations (para. 3.1 (i)). The entry into effect of the SGA would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.2 (c)). In order to improve transparency, the
funds to be provided through the SGA would be included in the Government's annual budget
allocation for CAH. During negotiations it was also agreed that CAH would take all such
actions as necessary to limit the position of its outstanding loans affected by arrears of more
than 90 days to 10% of its total loan portfolio as of September 30 of each year (para. 3.1
(j)). The Government would take the foreign exchange risk and repay the Bank's loan. As a
condition of disbursement, CAH would provide evidence that its operational procedures and
the Credit Regulations had been modified to incorporate the necessary environmental
safeguards and provisions into its lending practices, including the need for a farmer to
provide a farm development plan consistent with these practices prior to the review of the
sub-loan application (para. 3.3 (d) (iii)).
2.50         On average, CAH finances about 55% of the investments and inputs made by
its farm clients in the project area. CAH financing of farm and non-farm clients would be
limited to 70% of their sub-project costs. The Bank would reimburse CAH for 100% of
qualifying sub-loans under the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) procedure. Sub-loans to
individuals are expected to average US$1,000 each and would be limited to a maximum of
US$1,700. Sub-loans to AUCAs and cooperatives would be limited to US$27,000 and
US$82,000, respectively.
2.51         Lending Rates. Although CAH is legally free to set market-based lending
rates, in practice it follows the guidance of the Government. The latter maintains the lending
rate for official banks positive in real terms, but substantially below the rates (an average of
31% in 1992) charged by private banks, which are still subject to the high reserve
requirements of the BCP. At present, CAH uses a uniform lending rate of 23%, compared
to an average current commercial bank deposit rate of 21% and an inflation rate of 15% over
the last 12 months (as measured by the Consumer Prices Index). An analysis of CAH's
operating cost structure and its plans to expand its loan portfolio show that CAH could



- 22 -
probably eliminate its operating deficit if it charged lending rates similar to commercial
banks. While the project should pursue this long-term objective of charging market rates,
this may not be consistent with the Government's current policy of transition. During
negotiations it was agreed that CAH would on-lend Bank funds under the project at interest
rates which would always exceed the higher of the average commercial bank deposit rate or
the previous twelve months' domestic inflation rate, as measured by the Consumer Prices
Index (CPI) (para. 3.1 (k)).
D. COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
2.52        The total baseline project costs have been estimated at US$72.0 million.
Physical contingencies, at 3.2% of total baseline costs, and price contingencies, at 6.7% of
total baseline costs, increase the total estimated project costs to US$79. 1 million, including
taxes and duties which are estimated at US$4.6 million. Project costs are described in detail
in Annex 7.
Financing
2.53        A Bank loan of US$50.0 million equivalent would finance 67% of total project
costs, net of taxes and duties. Bank financing would cover 82% of foreign exchange
expenditures and 54% of local costs. Project beneficiaries under the pilot credit component
and FOCORN sub-component would finance about US$2.1 million and US$5.0 million,
respectively, of on-farm investments. Table 2 shows the project financing plan by project
component. Eligible expenditures for the early phases of project implementation from
December 31, 1993, to the date of loan signing would be considered for retroactive
financing, up to a maximum of US$1.0 million.
Table 2. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Components             IBRD      Government   Producers        Total
Agricultural Development         26.6         14.8          5.0         46.4
Indigenous Communities            1.2          2.2          -            3.4
Infrastructural Development      12.5         2.9                       15.4
Institutional Development         3.5          1.6          -            5. 1
Pilot Credit                      6.2          0.5          2.1          8.8
Total                50.0        22.0           7.1         79.1
Procurement
2.54        During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that the
procurement of goods and services financed under the project would be undertaken in
accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 3.1 (1)). International Competitive Bidding (ICB)



- 23 -
would be carried out using the Bank's standard bidding documents. The procurement
policies and procedures of the Government were the subject of a procurement review carried
out by the Bank in January, 1992. Comments on this procurement review have been
communicated to the Government and would be closely monitored during project supervision.
The review also found that procurement procedures are cumbersome, and recommended that
procurement service support be provided to the project to reduce delays.
2.55        The review and approval of bid documents and procedures, including bid
evaluations and contract award proposals, is the responsibility of the Comptroller-General
(Contraloria-General de la Naci6n - CGN). Formerly a branch of the Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda - MH), the CGN is now an independent agency that reports directly
to the Senate, and the Comptroller-General has Ministerial rank. Paraguayan tendering
procedures are governed by law dating from 1909. This has frequently been modified but
not codified. The law as it now stands contains a number of provisions for public sector
procurement which are incompatible with Bank guidelines and procedures, particularly where
ICB is concerned. As agreed during negotiations, for Bank procedures to prevail, specific
reference to the differences between the Bank's requirements and Paraguayan bidding
procedures has been made in the Loan Agreement (para. 3.1 (1)). The signed loan agreement
will require Congressional approval which, once received, gives it legal status in Paraguay
and the Bank's guidelines would prevail. A legal opinion confirming this would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (para. 3.2 (d)).
2.56        The following provisions have been included in the loan agreement to ensure
full compliance with the Bank's procurement policies:
(a)   foreign firms would not be obliged to enter into joint ventures with local firms
for carrying out civil works, supply and erection of electro-mechanical
equipment, or consulting services;
(b)   the application of Bank criteria of "lowest evaluated bidder" would be made
for bid evaluation;
(c)   foreign bidders would be allowed to participate in Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) for goods and works;
(d)   no prior registration of bidders would be required;
(e)   price adjustments for equipment would be allowed not only when these
changes exceed 15%;
(f)   the selection of consultants would be in accordance with Bank guidelines, and
would not be treated in the same manner as when contracting civil works
contractors;
(g)   a minimum of three bids would not be required;
(h)   bidders would not be required to legalize bid documents with consulates,
except when awarded the contract; and
(i)   the use of local personnel would not be imposed on foreign contractors, except
for unskilled labor.



- 24 -
2.57        The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3. The
procurement of works includes the construction/rehabilitation of rural roads and small
buildings. Feeder road construction totalling about US$13.2 million (about 17% of project
cost) would be procured in lots estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more through ICB,
including the prequalification of contractors. Other contracts for works, consisting mainly of
small office buildings, stores, etc., estimated to cost US$1.9 million in aggregate, would be
small in value; the largest contract would likely not exceed US$500,000. These works
would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.58        Goods. Road maintenance equipment and vehicles estimated to cost US$2.9
million would be procured in packages valued at not less than US$200,000 through ICB.
Contracts for other equipment (e.g., office and laboratory equipment, computers, agricultural
equipment) estimated to cost US$25,000 but less than US$200,000 and not exceeding US$1.0
million in aggregate would be awarded through LCB. Contracts for miscellaneous items of
equipment and supplies, etc., valued at less than US$25,000 each and not exceeding US$0.4
million in aggregate would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three eligible suppliers. Ex-ante review of contracts for goods and
works would cover 83% of Bank-financed contracts.
2.59        Services. The procurement of services would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. Training, which would cost about
US$3.7 million, would include overseas scholarships as well as the provision of local short
courses and seminars. Studies and research activities, which would cost about US$3.4
million, would include agricultural and forestry research and experiment programs, land
surveying and land-use planning. Technical assistance, which would cost about US$5.8
million, would include the provision of extension and technical assistance to producers and
the use of short- and medium-term specialists.
2.60        Grants under the FOCORN and sub-loans from CAH under the pilot credit
component totalling US$10 million would be used by producers to supplement their own
resources in making on-farm investments in resource conservation and productive activities.
Producers would procure the necessary goods and services, including agricultural inputs,
contractors' services and small-scale works, in accordance with normal commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank, requiring awards to be made on the basis of the solicitation of price
quotations from at least two eligible suppliers/contractors. The individual amounts would be
small, limited to a maximum of US$1,700 for sub-loans and US$2,500 for grants.
2.61        All procedures, documents, pre-qualifications, bid evaluations and contract
awards for ICB procurement of goods and works, and for procurement of consulting services
costing US$30,000 equivalent or more, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For
consulting services of less than US$30,000 (and not exceeding US$1.0 million in aggregate)
contracts would be signed based on a model contract and terms of reference previously
agreed with the Bank. The audit terms of reference would ask the auditors: (a) to certify
that procurement had been carried out using the bidding documents agreed with the Bank and
that the procurement documents presented to the Bank for prior review were representative;
and (b) to carry out a physical audit of actions taken under the project. The Bank would
review LCB and local shopping procurement procedures on an ex-post basis by sampling,
which would aim for a minimum coverage of 1:20. The above-mentioned review procedures



- 25 -
would provide a prior review coverage of about 90% of all Bank-financed contracts for
goods, works and consulting services.
Table 3. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million including taxes and duties)"'
Procurement Method
Project Element                     ICB             LCB             Other             NBFZ'           Total
1.    Works
1.1   Construction and                                 1.9    (1.5)                                       1.9   (1.5)
rehabilitation of
offices and other
buildings
1.2   Road rehabilitation           13.2   (10.4)                                                        13.2  (10.4)
2.    Goods
2.1   VehicLes                        1.7    (1.6)                                                        1.7   (1.6)
2.2   Road maintenance                1.2    (1.2)                                                        1.2   (1.2)
equipment
2.3   MisceLLaneous equipment                          1.0    (0.9)    0.4    (0.4)                       1.4   (1.3)
and materials
3.    Services
3.1   Training                                                          3.7    (3.6)                      3.7   (3.6)
3.2   Studies/research                                                  3.6    (3.4)                      3.6   (3.4)
3.3   Technical assistance                                              5.8    (5.5)                      5.8   (5.5)
4.    Other expenditures
4.1   Operating expenditures                                           20.7   (11.5)                     20.7  (11.5)
4.2   Land acquisition                                                                   8.8      ()      8.8     ()
4.3   FOCORN grants                                                     5.0    (5.0)                      5.0      (-)
4.4   Pilot credit sub-loans                                            5.0    (5.0)                      5.0   (5.0)
4.5   Producers                                                                          7.1      ()      7.1      (-)
TOTAL                         16.1   (13.2)    2.9    (1.5)   44.2   (35.3)   15.9         (-)    79.1  (50.0)
1/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
2/ NBF: non-Bank financed.
Disbursements and the Special Account
2.62               Loan proceeds would be disbursed over eight years, in line with the standard
disbursement profile for Bank-supported agricultural projects in Paraguay. The allocation of
the proposed loan and the disbursement percentages are summarized in Table 4. A Special
Account for Bank disbursements would be established in the BCP with an initial deposit of
US$2.25 million; this would be adequate to cover the average four-month flow of
disbursements expected during the project, not including payments to be made directly from
the loan account. It is anticipated that large payments for the contracts awarded under ICB



- 26 -
would be made directly by the Bank. Bank disbursements to replenish the Special Account
would be made on the basis of SOEs against contracts which would not require the Bank's
prior review. All other expenditures would be fully documented. The relevant
documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by UCTAP, and would be made
available to the appropriate auditors and Bank review missions. The estimated schedule of
Bank loan disbursements is shown in Annex 8.
Table 4. Allocation and Disbursement of the IBRD Loan
Percentage of
Amount of Loan Allocated    Expenditure
Category                  (US$ million equivalent)    to be Financed
1. Civil Works and Construction                  11.9                 79
2. Goods                                          4.1                 95
3. Services                                      12.5                 97
4. Other
Operating Costs, personnel                   11.5                 55
Advances under:
FOCORN                                     5.0                 100
CAH Credit                                 5.0                 100
Total                            50.0
I/ Average: expenditures will be financed on a declining basis.
E. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
2.63        Based on past Bank experience, the project would aim at decentralizing
decision-making and project administration to the regional level. Along those lines,
decentralized administration, supported by the systematic participation of the beneficiaries
themselves, would facilitate achievement of intended development objectives.
2.64        Project management responsibility would belong to the MAG, which, under
the overall coordination of DINCAP, would rely on three new administrative and technical
units - UCTAP, CICAR, and CRAE (para. 2. 11) - to implement the project at the regional
level. MAG would establish these units in the project area and give them local autonomy to
be more effective. DINCAP would be responsible for the overall inter-agency coordination
and administration of the project. Provisions have been made under the project to support
project start-up by strengthening DINCAP's implementation and monitoring capacity.
During project preparation, an institutional assessment and proposed Action Plan was
developed by independent consultants. As a condition of loan effectiveness, DINCAP would
carry out phase one of the referred Action Plan. Continuation of the implementation of
DINCAP's Action Plan would be supported by the project (para. 3.2 (e)).



- 27 -
2.65        The establishment of UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE would be made through a
Decree. A further Decree would describe new functions for existing administrative units of
MAG involved in project implementation, including the required corresponding staff. The
drafts of both Decrees were agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (m)). Their entry into effect
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.2 (f)). The appointment of qualified
professional staff to head UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE, and the adoption by UCTAP of an
accounting system adequate to control project costs and prepare SOEs, would be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.2 (g) and (h)).
2.66        To ensure close cooperation with other Government entities, inter-institutional
agreements (convenios) would be entered into between MAG - MSPBS - INDI; MAG - MEC
- INDI ; MAG - INDI; INDI - IBR; MAG - IBR; MAG - CAH; and MAG - Ministry of
Industry and Commerce (MIC). Drafts of these agreements were agreed at negotiations,
(para. 3.1 (n)) and their entry into effect would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (para. 3.2 (i)). Formal agreements would also be entered into between MAG
and the project area Municipalities during project implementation; a draft of the model
agreement was agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (n)). MAG has prepared a draft
Management Services Agreement with UNDP for project support services, particularly to
UCTAP. CICAR and CRAE in their administrative functions, including special emphasis on
procurement procedures. The format and content of the Agreement was agreed at
negotiations (para. 3.1 (o)), and its entry into effect would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (para. 3.2 (j)).
2.67        UCTAP would be strengthened institutionally by a Regional Operational
Committee (COR) to promote inter-institutional harmony at the regional level. Relationships
would be structured directly from UCTAP's area coordinators to MAG central or
decentralized entities, as day-to-day operations warrant. Evidence that the COR had been
duly established would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.2 (k)).
The administration and finance coordinator would ensure adequate management of
accounting, budgeting, personnel and legal aspects. Other entities would provide technical
support to UCTAP for special, ad hoc services.
Monitoring. Supervision and Evaluation
2.68        Chronograms of the main activities of the five components of the project were
agreed upon during negotiations (para. 3.1 (p)); these form the basis for the Schedule of
Monitorable Actions (Annex 9) and for the Supervision Plan (Annex 10), which includes a
mid-term review.
2.69        The responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be
undertaken by the Planning Directorate of the MAG (Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n -
DGP/MAG). The staffing and support requirements of the M&E unit was agreed upon at
negotiations (para. 3.1 (q)).
2.70        Reporting requirements have been designed to assist with the submission of
annual and semi-annual progress reports, the mid-term review, and the ex-post evaluation of
the project. Project performance indicators and measures of project impact (Annex 9) would
guide possible mid-course adjustments. In order to capitalize on the experience gained from



- 28 -
the implementation of the pilot activities (i.e., FOCORN, Pilot Agricultural Credit, and
catchment area management plans), special assessment studies would be carried out under the
overall coordination of UCTAP. TORs for the assessment studies would be agreed upon
during the mid-term review.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
2.71        DINCAP would have the overall responsibility for the coordination and
administration of the project. UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE would incur both operating and
investment costs with respect to their own establishment and operations. These and other
entities would submit their requests for reimbursement of project expenditures to UCTAP,
which would maintain separate project accounts and records for each project sub-component
and prepare SOEs. Supporting documents provided by the various entities would be
maintained by UCTAP and made available to visiting Bank missions and independent
auditors, who on their judgement would make field visits to these entities for the purpose of
the overall audit. A standard chart of accounts would be prepared for the project.
2.72        The financial administration of the FOCORN would be the responsibility of
the MAG through UCTAP.
2.73        Project accounts (including the Special Account) and SOEs would be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. The audit terms of reference
were agreed upon during negotiations (para. 3.1 (r)), and it was also agreed during
negotiations that the GOP would hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, to be
financed from the proceeds of the loan (para. 3.1 (s)). The independent auditors would give
an opinion on compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures. Certified
copies of these audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year.
2.74        It was agreed at negotiations that the UCTAP would present to the Bank, no
later than the end of June of each year, its draft Annual Operating Plan (POA) for the
following calendar year (para. 3.1 (t)). This draft would be subject to the Bank's review and
approval. It was also agreed at negotiations that, at the end of each year, the UCTAP would
produce a Progress Report, and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report, for
submission to the Bank; these would be provided to the Bank no later than January 31 and
July 31, respectively (para. 3.1 (u)). The Progress Reports would provide the basic
information and data for supervision missions and interim reviews. It was also agreed at
negotiations that annual reviews would be carried out jointly by the Bank and the
Gvoernment, before November of each year, and that an interim review would be carried out
in November 1997, the subject matter of which is defined in the Annexes to the
Implementation Letter (para. 3.1 (v)).



- 29 -
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
2.75         The project has been designed to initiate a process of change in the use of
natural resources in the project area. It is probable that deforestation will continue in areas
of cultivable soils. The project is not designed directly to slow the rate of deforestation or to
define limits on the eventual equilibrium level of cultivated land vs. natural forest. The
project "philosophy" is that an improvement in land use will ultimately come from a
combination of incentives and restrictions. The incentives must come mainly from an
increase in output, productivity and net farm income, and the public sector must play a
catalytic role in achieving this. As described above, in paras. 2.6 and 2.7, the project
represents the first phase of a major initiative to alter radically the use of natural resources in
agriculture. The restrictions would follow later from the imposition of land use and
conservation criteria, based on: (a) the agro-ecological zoning exercise for the whole of the
Eastern Region and associated legal and policy studies (currently in progress under the first
Japanese PHRD grant and the LURP); and (b) the Watershed Protection Master Plan and
associated studies (currently in progress under the second Japanese PHRD grant). This
would be the subject matter of later projects, and the dialogue would begin with the review
of the results of the work under the first grant, as described in para. 2.15.
2.76         The benefits of the project would result from:
(a)   short-, medium- and long-term financial benefits realized from the adoption of
on-farm investment plans;
(b)   medium- and long-term economic benefits accruing from the maintenance of
the productive resource base; and
(c)   improved management of protected areas, stabilization of indigenous people,
improved living conditions in the rural areas, and institutional development.
2.77         In order to examine the impact of the project proposals at the farm level and to
analyze the need for both credit resources and support from the FOCORN, seven farm
models were designed representing: (a) small (15 ha) and medium (35 ha) mixed crop/dairy
enterprises; (b) small crop-producing holdings of 10 ha (center-north) and 15 ha (south-east);
(c) medium-sized (35 ha) crop-producing farms, with and without their own agricultural
machinery; and (d) medium-sized crop-producing farms (155 ha) defined as being in a
transition stage towards large, commercial-scale operations. The models are described in the
Technical File.
Risks and Uncertaintv
2.78         Institutional weakness is an acknowledged risk of the project. The project's
institutional structure has been carefully designed, but in practice will demand considerable
adjustment to established patterns of behavior in multiple institutions where over-
centralization and control have been more important in the past than efficiency and results.
The institutional structure will include an active program of institutional development, and



- 30 -
monitorable indicators will allow progress to be closely followed during supervision and mid-
term review. The project aims to slow down and ultimately to provide the basis for the
reversal of a depredatory approach to natural resource use. This will depend on a consistent
message from the government and the provision of a framework of incentives and penalties.
In some cases, short-term political expediency may run counter to the requirements of the
necessary long-term strategic approach. The work described in para. 2.15 concerning
agro-ecological zoning and accompanying legal and policy instruments would be the subject
of review, on its completion, by the Bank and GOP, and agreement would be reached on the
appropriate mechanisms and timetable for its implementation.
Environmental Impact
2.79        The environmental problems being encountered in the project area as the result
of the rapid and uncontrolled expansion of agriculture at the expense of the natural forest
cover are described above in para. 1.7 - 1. 11. The existing model of land use is not
sustainable, and only by combining appropriate systems of agricultural production in
harmony with the management of natural resources can an equilibrium be achieved. In broad
terms, what is good for the environment is also good for a model of agricultural development
which is sustainable in the long term.
2.80        The project has an Environmental Assessment category A. The terms of
reference and work program for the Environmental Assessment (EA) were prepared during
the pre-appraisal by Bank staff in conjunction with staff of the SSRNMA and members of the
project preparation team. The EA was carried out by a team of consultants and was
presented to the Bank in June, 1992. The summary of the EA, which was distributed to the
Board on September 17, 1992, is presented in Annex 12. The full EA report is available in
the Technical File.
2.81        The EA followed methodology and guidelines appropriate to a regional
environmental assessment' which considered the project as a whole as presented in the
GOP's project preparation document. The EA explicitly recognizes that the project aims at
reversing the present abuse of natural resources by promoting diversified and sustainable
production systems. The EA made several recommendations concerning the design of the
project, which are summarized as follows:
(a)   activities of research in agriculture and forestry should be combined, and agro-
forestry and pasture-forestry activities should be included; this
recommendation was adopted;
(b)   the enforcement of environmental provisions as defined in law should be kept
separate from the functions of extension and promotion; this recommendation
was accepted;
1.   IBRD Environmental Assessment Workbook, Vol. 1, pp. 12-16.



- 31 -
(c)   the rural roads component originally contemplated the abandonment of some
stretches of road which presented the worst erosion hazard and their
replacement by new roads designed to follow the watershed. The EA team
considered that such an approach would not necessarily represent an
improvement, as many old roads would not in practice be abandoned and
might even become worse erosion problems: the recommendation was adopted
whereby each stretch of road would be re-examined and, wherever possible,
renovated using erosion control and water-check measures; only where
necessary would roads be abandoned, and in these cases they would be
reclaimed through proper closure and, where appropriate, reforestation;
(d)   the existing law provides for individual landowners to maintain at least 25% of
their land in forest; this figure has been exceeded in the aggregate on a
regional basis, and the EA recommended that all remaining forest in the
project area should be declared Protective Forest. This recommendation was
not adopted. There are no available means to enforce such a declaration, and
it would penalize those landowners who are following proper practices and
who have remaining forested land in the process of development; and
(e)   the program for indigenous land titling should precede delimitation of any
other land use in the project and should be initiated by mapping the entire
indigenous population in the project area by ethnic group, including all land
presently controlled or owned by indigenous people and the projected
expansions. Following this, a "no-innovation" measure for the expansion
areas should be solicited from the GOP, to protect indigenous people from
expulsion by landowners or invasion; this recommendation was adopted.
2.82        The actions proposed under the project are intended to address directly many
of the key issues facing agriculture in the area. The project area was at one time almost
wholly under forest, and agricultural development has by definition been at the expense of
the natural forest. This is a dynamic process, and much of the conversion of forested land to
agriculture has occurred in the last few years. The improvement of roads under the project,
by facilitating access, may have a marginal impact on the rate of conversion of forest land,
but in all cases the forested land in question is residual; road improvements will not have the
effect of providing access to hitherto inaccessible large tracts of forest. The pilot credit
component may similarly have a marginal impact on residual forest on individuals' holdings,
but the benefits of improved land management which would accrue from the project are
considered to outweigh by a wide margin the potential impact of removal of residual forest.
HI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS. AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1         The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   no later than June 30, 1994, a joint review would be carried out by the Bank
and the Government of the technical basis for agro-ecological zoning and the
accompanying body of legal and policy instruments; and agreement reached on



- 32 -
the appropriate mechanisms and timetable for the implementation of agreed
proposals to be included in an Action Plan to be furnished to the Bank no later
than December 31, 1994 (para. 2.15);
(b)   the Government would provide a resettlement plan, including a compensation
plan, in the event that it were to undertake a resettlement action affecting the
population living within the boundaries of the newly-defined San Rafael
National Park (para. 2.23) or the area to be expanded for the benefit of
indigenous people (para. 2.32);
(c)   the draft terms of reference for the preparatory studies for new national parks
(para. 2.23);
(d)   the draft management plans for the Kyri'y reserve and the Nacunday
protection area (para. 2.23);
(e)   the drafts of the Regulations, the Operating Manual and the Model Contract of
the FOCORN (para. 2.29);
(f)   the draft legal instruments for land acquisition and regularization of tenancy
for indigenous people (para. 2.32);
(g)   the request for pre-qualification by consultants and the terms of reference for
road design, and a Schedule of Monitorable Actions associated with road
design (para. 2.39);
(h)   the Terms of Reference for studies and technical assistance to be undertaken
by CAH in the first two years of the project (para. 2.48);
(i)   the SGA and the CAH Credit Regulations (para. 2.49);
(j)    CAH would take the actions necessary to limit the portion of its outstanding
loans affected by arrears of more than 90 days to 10% of its total loan
portfolio (para. 2.49);
(k)   CAH would on-lend Bank funds in the pilot credit program at rates of interest
exceeding the higher of the average commercial bank deposit rate or the
previous twelve months' domestic inflation rate as measured by the CPI (para.
2.51);
(1)   procurement under the project would be undertaken in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines and using the Bank's standard bidding documents (para.
2.54); and that specific reference would be made in the Loan Agreement to
differences between the Bank's procurement requirements and Paraguayan
procedures (para. 2.55);
(m)   the Decrees (i) establishing UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE; and (ii) describing
new functions for MAG administrative units (para. 2.65);



- 33 -
(n)   the agreements (convenios) between MAG and MOPC, MSPBS, MEC, INDI,
IBR, CAH and MIC; and the model agreement between MAG and the project
area Municipalities (para. 2.66);
(o)   the draft Management Services Agreement with UNDP (para. 2.66);
(p)   the chronograms of the main activities of the five proposed project components
(para. 2.68);
(q)   the staffing and support requirements of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
unit to be established in the DGP/MAG (para. 2.69);
(r)   the audit terms of reference (para. 2.73);
(s)   the GOP would hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.73);
(t)   the UCTAP would present its draft Annual Operating Plan to the Bank (para.
2.74);
(u)   the UCTAP would produce Annual and Interim Progress Reports to be
submitted to the Bank no later than January 31 and July 31 of each year (para.
2.74); and
(v)   the timing and scope of the annual reviews and the mid-term review.
3.2         The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a)   the entry into effect of the SGA governing the transfer of loan proceeds to
INDI (para. 2.30);
(b)   the entry into effect of the contractual arrangement between INDI and IBR
(para. 2.32);
(c)   the entry into effect of the SGA governing the transfer of funds from MH to
CAH (para. 2.49);
(d)   the legal opinion confirming the primacy of the signed loan agreement,
approved by Congress, over other legal dispositions concerning public sector
procurement (para. 2.55);
(e)   evidence that phase one of DINCAP's Action Plan had been carried out (para.
2.64);
(f)   the entry into effect of the Decrees: (i) establishing UCTAP, CICAR and
CRAE (para. 2.65); and (ii) describing new functions for existing MAG
administrative units, including required corresponding staff (para. 2.65);



- 34 -
(g)   the appointment of qualified professional staff to head UCTAP, CICAR and
CRAE (para. 2.65);
(h)   the adoption by the UCTAP of an adequate accounting system (para. 2.65);
(i)   the entry into effect of the convenios to be signed between MAG and the
project executing and cooperating agencies (para. 2.66);
(j)   the entry into effect of the Management Services Agreement with the UNDP
(para. 2.66); and
(k)   evidence of the establishment of the Regional Operations Committee (COR)
(para. 2.67).
3.3          The following would be conditions of disbursement;
(a)   of the protected areas program of the forestry and environmental conservation
sub-component, that the Government would provide to the Bank a resettlement
plan, including a compensation plan, if it were to undertake a resettlement
action affecting the population living within the boundaries of the San Rafael
National Park (para. 2.23);
(b)   of the FOCORN sub-component, that the fund and its account in the BNF had
been established, and that the FOCORN Operating Regulations had been
approved (para. 2.29);
(c)   of the indigenous communities component, that INDI had adopted an
appropriate accounting system to keep project accounts and prepare SOEs
(para. 2.32); and
(d)   of the pilot agricultural credit component: (i) that CAH had provided evidence
of the training of staff with respect to environmental review of sub-loan
applications (para. 2.48 (a)); (ii) that CAH had developed and implemented an
accounting system to keep project accounts, prepare SOEs and control arrears
in its project sub-loan portfolio (para. 2.48 (b)); and (iii) that the modification
to the Credit Regulations and operational procedures incorporating the
necessary environmental safeguards and provisions, satisfactory to the Bank,
had entered into effect (para. 2.49).
Recommendation
3.4         Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million equivalent, repayable in twenty years, including
five years of grace, with amortization on an annuity basis, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
January 31, 1994



- 35 -                               Annex 1
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Project Area: Location and Main Characteristics
1.    The project area covers the Department of Alto Parana and that part of the
Department of Itapuia lying north of the rio Pirap6, in Paraguay's Eastern Region. The
project area covers some 2.0 million ha, about 5% of the total area of the country. The
climate is humid sub-tropical and the project area has the highest rainfall in Paraguay, with
an annual average of between 1,600 - 1,800 mm; the rainfall is reasonably well distributed
throughout the year, with a drier period between June - September. Calculations of potential
evapo-transpiration and analyses of the water-retention capacity of the soils of the area
indicate that on average there is no soil moisture deficit in any month of the year in the
project area.
2.    The project area falls almost entirely within the watershed of the Parana river, into
which drain 49 of its total of 50 river systems. The natural vegetation of the area comprises
semi-moist Atlantic forest, open grassland (savannah), low-lying (i.e., floodable) areas, and
scrub land.
3.    Based on reconnaissance-level soil surveys and the USDA methodology-based
classification of soils according to their appropriate use, a high proportion of the area is
suitable for crop production. Soils in Classes I - IV are considered cultivable and capable of
sustainable agriculture with ecologically-adapted crops. Soils of Classes V - VII are
considered suitable for pasture, forestry and perennial crops or for certain specialized crops
(e.g., rice). The distribution of land according to capacity of use in the project area is as
follows:
Class               Area (ha)               % of total
II                1,243,280                    62.2
III                 205,460                    10.3
IV                   51,700                     2.6
V                  476,900                     23.8
VI                   12,380                     0.6
VII                  10,280                     0.5



- 36 -                                  Annex 1
4.    The interpretation of satellite imagery acquired for project preparation and other
estimates provide the following data on actual land use:
Area (ha)
Annual Crops:
Soybeans!'                                    618,000
Cotton                                        101,000
Maize                                         208,000
Cassava                                        42,000
Others                                         28,000
Sub-Total                                                              997,000
Perennial Crops:
Tung                                            13,000
Yerba Mate                                      6,000
Citrus                                          4,000
Pastures                                       180,000
Sub-total                                                             203,000
Natural forest                                                        500,000
Natural grassland                                                      150,000
Other use (urban, roads)                                               150,000
TOTAL                                                                2,000,000
I/    Winter crops (wheat, barley, and others) are generally cultivated in a rotation with soybeans.
5.    The major part of the annual crops and some perennial crops are on Class II soils,
distributed throughout the project area. The cropping pattern is dominated by soybeans on
medium- and large-scale mechanized farms. The Class II soils derived from basalt rock,
which occupy the center and east of the area in a band of 50 - 80 km in width parallel to the
Parana river, are those preferred for soybean, maize, wheat and cassava production, whilst
those derived from sandstone are preferred for cotton, maize and cultivated pastures.
6.    The remaining natural forest is distributed in relatively small parcels throughout the
project area. The only remaining large contiguous areas are in the Cordillera de San Rafael
and in the north-east of the project area covering the catchment areas immediately adjoining
the lake formed by the Itaipui dam. This latter area is mainly on Class II soil, which puts it
at risk of indiscriminate incorporation into agricultural use.



- 37 -                                  Annex 1
7.    Potential Use. The Class II and III soils of the area are considered the best soils in
Paraguay for their chemical and physical characteristics. Their structure allows rapid
absorption of rainfall, and this characteristic plus the high initial fertility after forest
clearance have allowed the rapid expansion of mechanized agriculture. The basalt-derived
Class II and III soils should be used in annual cropping with conservation practices. Long-
term pastures on these soils are not recommended because of the risk of degradation via
invasion of broad-leaved weeds resulting from soil compaction. The Class III and IV soils
should be dedicated to perennial crops and to reforestation with native and exotic species.
The sandstone-derived Class II and III soils are more appropriate for small farmer
exploitation in both annual and perennial crops, and those of Class III and IV are the most
appropriate for planted pastures. The Class V soils, occupying one-quarter of the total area,
are appropriate for cultivated pasture and, where the clay sub-soil permits, for rice.



- 38 -



- 39 -                               Annex 2
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Forest Conservation and Agro-Forestry
Introduction
1.    Forests and Deforestation. The natural forests of the project area are classified as
"Sub-tropical Humid Forests" and form the western-most part of the Atlantic Forest biome,
extending from southern Brazil to north-eastern Argentina. This ecosystem combines many
tropical and temperate plants and animals, and is the most biologically diverse ecosystem in
Paraguay. The forest is dominated by tall ( > 30 m) broad-leaved species, the more
prominent of which include cedro (Cedrela sp.), guatambu (Balfourodendron riedelianum),
incienso (Myrocarpus frondosus), kurupay (Piptadenia sp), petereby (Cordia trichotoma), and
ybyraro (Pterogyne nitens). In Brazil, this forest type now covers less than 1% of its
original range, and some observers (e.g., Fonseca, 1985) believe that this is the most
endangered ecosystem in South America.
2.    While relatively more of the Atlantic forest type can be found in Eastern Paraguay
than in its neighboring countries, rapid colonization and agricultural development over the
last twenty years have also depleted much of its range. In the project area itself, there were
an estimated 1.3m ha of forest remaining in 1975, but by 1990 this had been reduced to
about 150,000 ha. Since 1990, the already rapid rate of deforestation has accelerated. The
law describes forested land as "underutilized" and therefore subject to expropriation for
settlement purposes. Large landowners, who own most of the remaining forest land in the
Eastern Region, have deforested their land in order to avoid the increased threat of invasion
by landless people and/or expropriation which followed the end of the de facto government.
3.    Although most of the deforestation in Eastern Paraguay is the result of mechanized
land clearing on large private landholdings, there has also been substantial forest clearing by
peasant colonists. Generally, forest clearing has been indiscriminate, with little regard to
slope, soil type, land use category or natural water courses. This has resulted in serious on-
farm soil erosion (especially sheet, gully and stream bank types) and soil degradation, and
related declines in crop yields.  Under the current farming practices in which all woody
vegetation is cleared, farmers have also begun to experience wind damage to their crops and
houses, shortages of fuelwood (the primary domestic energy source on small farms), and the
loss of minor forest products which are important for the mixed farming system of the small
farmer. Off-farm environmental impacts are also increasing. Sedimentation of streams is
now considered a major and immediate threat to the region's hydro-electric projects, in
particular to Itaipu. The cleared areas must be stabilized and protected, and rational
judgments reached concerning the appropriate equilibrium between agriculture and
preservation of natural forest. In this respect, time is of the essence.



- 40 -                                 Annex 2
4.    Protected Areas. There has been little attempt by the government to protect forest
areas in the Eastern Region, where less than 0.5% of the land area is classified as being
either national park or forest reserve. Moreover, because there is no park legislation, all
parks are instituted by decree and exist in name only. In the project area, only 2,150 ha
have been declared protected forests (Yacuy, Nacunday, and Kyri'y). Typical of most
protected areas of Paraguay, these are "paper reserves" because the land is not state owned
and the Constitution guarantees the right to private property. As a result, there has been no
attempt by the government to manage these reserves. Because all of the remaining (and
rapidly disappearing) forest land in the project area is privately owned, one important
strategy will be to encourage private landowners to protect forest areas on their land. In
view of the lack of a legal precedent for government regulation of private lands, and in the
interests of ensuring good watershed and biodiversity protection, there is also need to bring
under government control and management a substantially large section of the remaining
forests in the Cordillera de San Rafael.
5.    Timber Exploitation and Reforestation. The forestry sector has traditionally made an
important contribution to the economy. In 1990, some 250,000 m3 of roundwood were
processed. Although the export of unprocessed logs is prohibited by law, it is estimated that
a further 600,000 m3 of logs are smuggled over the "frontera seca" with Brazil each year.
Because of the lack of inventory data on forest areas, the effective life of the forestry
industry can be only roughly estimated. Nevertheless, it is generally agreed that most of the
remaining accessible forest areas have already been logged over. The conversion of the
forest to agricultural use, however, has created a current over-supply of logs in the project
area.
6.    Two important factors militate against sustainable forest management by private
landowners. First, the forests of Eastern Paraguay are situated on the best agricultural soils
of the country and there continues to be an economic incentive for landowners to convert
forest land to agricultural use after logging. Second, there is little perceived economic return
to forest management because of the low value of standing timber, which is the result of the
current over-supply of logs. As an indication of the low value given to forest cover, forest
land currently sells for about half the price of cleared land.
7.    Reforestation efforts have suffered from the excess supply of logs resulting from
forest clearings. Private landowners have not seen any market signals that would suggest
that timber plantations would be profitable. Furthermore, a previous Government program to
encourage private plantation establishment through fiscal incentives failed because of
problems in its implementation and corruption. Meanwhile, the recently-introduced changes
in the country's tax code include provisions for fiscal incentives for reforestation. The
private sector, however, does not feel that this will be sufficient to attract interest. On the
other hand, once timber supplies from the natural forests run out, which is estimated to
happen in about 10-15 years, private sector interest in tree planting should improve.
8.    Forest Policy and Legislation. The main legal basis for forest exploitation and
management in Paraguay is Forest Law 422 (C6digo Forestal) of 1973 and two supplemental
decrees (Decreto 11,681/1975 and Decreto 18,831/1986). While this legislation theoretically
provides an enlightened framework for good management and conservation, it is not



- 41 -                                Annex 2
enforced. There are legal provisions for designating areas to be preserved, for requiring land
owners to maintain 25% of their land in natural forest, and for prohibiting the clearing of
natural vegetation from slopes greater than 15% or along waterways. However, since most
of the remaining forest land in Paraguay is privately owned, the Forest Law is in direct
conflict with the land-owner's constitutional rights, which provides for owner discretion on
land use. In addition, the Forestry Service does not have the resources or the necessary
guidelines to enforce the law. There is no current legal framework for national park
establishment or for wildlife protection. This is a stated government priority, however, and
draft legislation has been presented to Congress for approval. In brief, there is no clear
policy on the development of the forestry sector.
9.    In 1990, the German Government, through GTZ, offered to fund and lead the
implementation, with FAO, of a Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) exercise in Paraguay.
GTZ has since offered to implement the review, then called the "Plan Acci6n Nacional"
(PAN), independently of FAO. The Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the
Environment (SSRNMA) will be responsible for implementation and, with GTZ technical
assistance and funding, will establish a planning office for the two-year activity. GTZ has
insisted that NGOs should have an active role in the process and that the final product would
be a viable sector strategy, including agriculture and livestock, as well as forestry.
10.   Institutional Framework. In 1989, the Government made an important expression of
concern over environmental problems, such as deforestation, by establishing the SSRNMA in
the MAG. The SSRNMA has a broad range of environmental responsibilities, including the
protection of forests, wildlife, and national parks. The three directorates of the SSRNMA -
the National Forest Service, the Directorate of National Parks and Wildlife, and the
Directorate of the Environment - are to varying degrees understaffed, undertrained, and
inadequately funded. A six-fold increase in the Secretariat's budget in 1991, however, was
an encouraging sign that priority is now being directed towards natural resources.
11.   Nevertheless, little priority has been given to on-the-ground presence and there is
essentially no extension capacity within SSRNMA. In the project area, there are two district
offices. In Alta Parana, the staff comprises one Ing. Forestal, five technical foresters, and
three administrative staff. In the Itapua district office, the staff comprises one Ing. Forestal,
five technical level foresters and one administrative officer. The efficient functioning of this
already weak field capacity is further compromised by highly centralized decision-making
procedures. The MAG's extension service, SEAG, has some 45 extension agents in the
project area. Future agro-forestry extension activities should build upon that capacity.
12.   Training and Research. In the project area, there are two Forest Technical Schools,
each providing a 2-year technical training certificate. The Centro Forestal de Alto Parana
(CFAP), which has in the past received Bank assistance, trains about 10-12 students each
year. The Centro de Desarrollo Forestal (CEDEFO) in Itapua, which receives Japanese
assistance and focuses more on timber technology, trains about 15 technicians each year.
13.   A forestry engineering degree program was recently begun at the newly-founded
(1990) Forestry College at the National University of Asunci6n (UNA). Its output is about



- 42 -                                Annex 2
5-10 graduates each year. With only 8 professors, some part-time, there is little research
capacity, and current activities are limited to a small enrichment planting trial.
14.   Little research has been done on native tree species or on native forests. At CFAP,
which has 168 ha of land, some species selection and production trials of exotic and, to a
lesser extent, indigenous species have been initiated. At CEDEFO, which has about 400 ha
of land, there are also some silvicultural trials of various species of exotic pine and
eucalyptus. Except for the ad hoc work done by Peace Corps volunteers, no agro-*forestry
research has been conducted.
15.   International Assistance. There have been a number of projects in the past and
several continue in the areas of forestry conservation, social forestry and natural resource
management, supported by international, bilateral and non-governmental organizations, from
which lessons have been drawn in project design. The main donors include GTZ (Germany),
JICA (Japan), IDB, U.S. Peace Corps, Itaipu Binacional, and the Swiss Government. GTZ
and the Peace Corps have been the most active in generating and testing agro-forestry
technologies. The most successful agro-forestry program, which has provided useful data for
project design, is that of the Centro de Promoci6n Campesina de la Cordillera (CPCC)
located near Caacupe. So far, about 600 member farmers have integrated agro-forestry and
forest management systems into their mixed farming systems, with promising results.
16.   JICA has recently shifted its project emphasis from reforestation to forest management
and enrichment planting, mainly for environmental reasons. Under their original
reforestation program, native forests were being cleared to plant monoculture tree plantations
of pine and eucalyptus, which in most cases is environmentally undesirable.
17.   ItaipiI Binacional is currently planning its second ten-year watershed management and
environmental program for the area of influence of the Itaipui Dam. It will spend 2.5% of its
budget (i.e., about US$5 million per year) on environmental activities, which will include
forestry and other natural resource management activities. With some ten years of work on
native trees species and other biological studies in reserve areas, Itaip6 Binacional's
experiences will be useful in the early implementation of the proposed project.
18.   The Swiss aid agency is negotiating a five-year, US$2 million project to support the
renovation of Puerto Bertoni (which is in the project area) into a Centro Nacional de Manejo
de Recursos Naturales. The center would focus on research on sustainable agriculture
development, and would include a higher level professional training program in natural
resources.
19.   Local NGOs. Environmental NGOs are relatively new in Paraguay: about ten have
been formed over the last five years. The largest and best organized is the Fundaci6n
Moises Bertoni (FMB), established in 1988 with assistance from The Nature Conservancy of
the US. Its mission is to protect biological diversity through strengthening the Directorate of
National Parks, promoting private protected areas, and promoting environmental education.
Through its involvement with the protection of the Mbaracayu National Park, FMB has
begun to develop experience with buffer-zone management. The foundation has also begun
to develop incentives and methods for implementing forest reserves on private lands.



-43-                                   Annex 2
Project Description
20.   Origin and Concept. One of the original ideas for a forestry component involved
reforestation and forest management. Upon closer analysis of the problem, however, this
concept proved inappropriate. Under the current policy and pricing environment, there is
little incentive for landowners to participate. On the contrary, large landowners, who own
most of the remaining forest land, are driven to deforest their land by the threat of invasion
and expropriation. Clearly, proposals for large-scale reforestation activities would need to be
preceded by a thorough analysis of the policy and legal issues that constrain the proper
development of the forestry sector.
21.   A number of project activities could help to lay the technical foundation for a future
national forestry development project. The rationale is that, while there is little current
incentive for (or interest in) reforestation, rapid deforestation will, within the next 5-10
years: (a) transform Paraguay from a wood exporter to a wood importer; and (b) have
eliminated much of the seed source of the valuable native timber species of the country. A
second phase of the proposed project could include a large-scale reforestation component,
taking into account the probable future scarcity and higher prices of timber which would
provide the incentive necessary to attract private investment to reforestation.
22.   The need versus the practicality of setting up forest reserves in the few remaining
forested areas is a complicated issue. Because all the remaining forested land in the project
area is privately owned, one strategy would be to encourage private landowners to protect
areas of forest on their own land. It may be unrealistic to believe that large areas of public
lands, even if the country could afford to buy them, could be effectively protected from
encroachment. On the other hand, there is no legal precedent for government-imposed
management of forest reserves on private land, and experience in other areas of Latin
America (e.g., Costa Rica) indicates that the surest way to guarantee the protection of natural
areas is for the government to have full control over the land by owning it. In Paraguay, a
mixture of these two concepts will probably be required. The participation of the Bank will
be a key factor in helping the Government to redirect policy and legislation so that, rather
than being encouraged to clear forest land, landowners willing to place their land under
reserves would be provided with official protection from invasion and expropriation. At the
same time, mechanisms could be structured to purchase land for national parks.
23.   The immediate needs to stabilize farming and land-use practices will be addressed in
the project by a strengthened extension program. Agro-forestry systems could play an
important complementary role to ensure land-use systems compatible with farm sustainability
needs as well as off-farm environmental stability needs. However, due to the novelty of
agro-forestry systems in Paraguay, such an approach will require substantial research and
training efforts. To avoid past mistakes of improper land use and wasteful forest destruction,
improved environmental controls (fiscalizaci6n) will also be required as a necessary
complement to an overall effort to improve natural resource management. Because
environmental issues are not well understood by the population at large, there will also be a
need for a more general program of environmental education.  By improving environmental
awareness, this activity would set the stage for the field implementation of the entire project.



- 44 -                                Annex 2
24.   Objectives and General Description. The overall objective of the forestry and agro-
forestry activities of the proposed project is to protect natural vegetation and to improve the
use of natural resources, compatible with agricultural development and environmental
stability. The forestry activities would be closely integrated with the agricultural activities of
the project and, hence, would be included under the same sub-components. The main
forestry activities would include: Agro-ecological Extension and Training; Agro-ecological
Research; Forestry Research and Germplasm Conservation; Protected Area Management; and
Environmental Control.
25.   Agro-ecoloaical Extension and Training would aim to ensure environrnentally-
appropriate land use through careful farm- and community-level land capability planning.
Technical assistance would be provided to assist some 7900 farm families to draw up land-
use plans, and to monitor and control the implementation of the plans in accordance with
existing and proposed legislation. The soil maps, land-use map, forest cover map and
watershed protection master plan being prepared under the two Japanese PHRD grants will
provide the baseline information needed to implement this activity.
26.   Agro-forestry extension, as well as agricultural extension, would be an important
activity of the land-use plans. Because this is a new land-use concept for Paraguay,
emphasis would initially be given to the development and testing of workable models, the
training of extension officers and the transfer of the new technology to farmers. Project
research and extension staff would review suitable agro-forestry models. These would
include successful models used in other parts of Paraguay and promising models used in
neighboring countries. Examples would include windbreak planting, enrichment planting of
degraded forest areas, establishment of erosion control hedges (trees and/or grasses) on
cropland, conservation planting of trees along critical watershed areas, planting of live
fencing, planting of fodder banks with leguminous tree species, bee-keeping with timber and
citrus species, and planting of medicinal plants and yerba mate under the forest canopy.
Depending on the level of adaptation required for the project area, some of the systems may
be readily promoted based on experience while others will need further development and
testing.
27.   Extension would be carried out cooperatively by the existing, but strengthened, MAG
extension service (SEAG) and by local NGOs and community groups. Training in agro-
forestry methodologies would be needed for the extension agents and others responsible for
promoting these systems of land use with farmers. As a first step, professional staff would
be trained as trainers via a series of workshops, short courses (abroad and in-country) and
MSc level training. These professional trainers would then be responsible for organizing a
series of agro-forestry training sessions for two extension specialists in each of the 50
selected catchment areas (micro-cuencas). Specialists in agro-forestry systems would carry
out the training sessions of the extension specialists and fine tune the training program. The
training of the extension specialists would be conducted at existing research and training
centers in the project area. Once trained, the agro-forestry trainers would put on periodic
training courses for the extension agents in their respective catchment areas. During each
year of the project, each of 150 extension agents would receive 10 days of training. This
training would take place at the MAG agricultural and agro-forestry research centers in the
project area.



-45-                                 Annex 2
28.   A media campaign would be employed to increase environmental awareness of the
importance of forests and of natural resource management. This would provide a means to
inform farmers of the opportunities offered by the project and of improved land-use policies
and legislation. Such a campaign would help to change the current laissez faire attitude
towards the destruction of forest resources to a more conservation-minded attitude. Periodic
ecological conservation messages would be prepared for broadcast over local radio and
television stations and for publication in local newspapers. Film strips on conservation topics
would be prepared for presentation at schools and other institutions throughout the project
area.
29.   Afro-Ecological Research would involve the development and testing of promising
agro-forestry systems. Research would be coordinated by the MAG agricultural and agro-
forestry research stations, and conducted on the MAG research stations in the project area, at
the forestry centers (e.g., CRAE) and on-farm. Research would be conducted by a multi-
disciplinary team of specialists. This approach of combining on-farm and on-station research
with a multi-disciplinary research team is designed to take advantage of the controls possible
on a research station while incorporating the practical lessons that can be learned at the farm
level. The on-farm approach would help the researchers to understand better the holistic
functioning and needs of the mixed farming systems of the area, so that differences in
cultural identities may be included in research designs. By focusing on on-farm research, the
work of technology transfer would be facilitated because the researchers would be able to
take on an extension role. On-farm research would also help to reduce project costs as the
farmer could assume most of the maintenance activities.
30.   In the 50 selected catchment areas of the project area, a total of 800 ha of agro-
forestry research plots would be established and monitored. For budgetary purposes, this
would involve 5 plots (10 ha each) on each of the five MAG centers and 75 plots (10 ha
each) on farmers' land. In practice, this could involve a larger number of farmers and
smaller plot sizes. However, the entire farm would be included in the agro-forestry system
because all production and consumption functions of the farms are considered to be integral
parts of the system. Depending on the site and vegetation conditions of the land made
available for research, the research design for each plot would accommodate one or all of the
following treatments: (a) interplanting of annual and perennial plants on contour lines; (b)
enrichment planting of degraded forests; (c) silvo-pastoral management; and (d) reforestation
on deforested and degraded sites.
31.   The project would provide for seven incremental research staff (agro-forestry, forest
management, soil conservation, and watershed management specialists) and their support and
mobility, two research assistants, and a computer specialist and computer. Equipment and
supplies, as well as subsidies for farmers willing to implement research on their fields, would
be provided for establishing and maintaining the research plots.
32.   Silviculture Research and Germplasm Conservation would begin long-term research
into the silvicultural characteristics, growth rates and uses of native tree species, so that
information would be available when needed for large-scale reforestation. As a necessary
complement, seed orchards, covering 10 ha and including populations of about 50 native
species, would be established throughout the project area. This would help to ensure a future



- 46 -                               Annex 2
source of seed for these valuable timber species, many of which are threatened by
deforestation. Also with an aim to conserve germplasm for future generations, seed of
superior specimens of native species would be collected and placed into cold storage. For
educational purposes, a 5 ha arboretum would be established in the project area.
33.   The activity would also seek to develop sustainable forest management systems and
appropriate small-scale wood utilization technologies to give value to the remnants of forests
on farmers' holdings. The aim would be to provide sufficient economic incentives so that
farmers would maintain these forest areas as useful complements to their mixed farming
systems.
34.   Protected Areas Establishment and Management would focus on the establishment of a
national park covering 78,000 ha in the Cordillera de San Rafael where some of the largest
contiguous blocks of natural forests remaining in the project area are to be found. Protection
of this forest area is important for watershed management of the greater catchment area, as
well as for biodiversity conservation; however, the most important reason for its preservation
is that its soils and slopes are wholly unsuitable for long-termn agricultural production and
there are no rational arguments for allowing its deforestation. A cadastral and physical
survey of the area is in progress to initiate the process of park establishment. As a
consequence of that preparation work, in May 1992 the government officially proclaimed the
area a national park (Decree No. 13,680).
35.   Based on the recommendations of a proposed socio-economic study of the San Rafael
National Park, and with assistance from a conservation specialist, an Integrated Conservation
Development Program (ICDP) would be designed which would link the conservation of
biological diversity in the protected area with local social and economic development.
Although the ICDP approach is innovative and experimental, lessons from other projects
suggest that the project must address the following factors: (a) a supportive policies,
legislation and institutional framework; (b) clear and explicit linkages between the
conservation objectives and the development component; (c) effective local participation for
all aspects of project design, implementation and evaluation; (d) consistency between the
scope, scale, and time horizon for the project and local site conditions; (e) a strengthened
park protection function in coordination with other project components; and (f) strong local
management is essential.
36.   The project would provide for park infrastructure (tourist center, park office, staff
housing, guardposts), incremental staff, including a park administrator, park rangers, and
park technical assistants, and vehicles, equipment and supplies. Demarcation of park
boundaries - which would involve cutting a line of 3 m wide and placing permanent markers
each 0.5 km - would be required, and it has been estimated that the perimeter of the park is
about 450 km. A specialist in park management would be provided for a period of three
months to help design the ICDP. Research funding would not be included, as it is assumed
that the staff would mobilize grant funding for this activity and that the tourist center could
be used to accommodate the periodic needs of researchers.
37.   The project preparation team has initiated the establishment of a foundation of
concerned landowners and farmers in the area of influence of the protected area. The



- 47 -                                 Annex 2
Fundaci6n Cordillera de San Rafael would design and conduct studies, disseminate
information and implement participatory activities aimed at developing a conservation
consciousness among the people living in and near the park. The project would support the
activities of the foundation by itself being an active member and by providing financial
support. This would consist of office equipment, a vehicle, and training in park protection.
38.   Besides the proposed San Rafael National Park, five other smaller reserves would be
brought under protection and management. Three of these - Bosque Protegido Yacuy (1,000
ha), Bosque Protegido Nacunday (1,000 ha) and Bosque del Kyri'y (2000 ha) - have already
been declared protected areas '. However, these reserves have not been demarcated or
placed under effective protection. Another two areas - Saltos del Monday and Saltos del
Tembey - have been identified as important for protection under the project. Both of these
include waterfalls, the former being the largest (60 m high) waterfall of the country. Each of
these areas is threatened by invasion by small farmers, deforestation and illegal hunting.
Accordingly, the project would undertake studies and then design and implement
management plans aimed at the protection of these areas. Working with local environmental
NGOs, the project would develop incentives and other mechanisms for ensuring the
protection of these areas under the existing (private) land ownership and, where necessary,
seek funding for the purchase of critical areas where private reserve management is not
possible. For the establishment and management of these areas, the project would provide
for incremental professional staff (one park ranger and two park assistants per area) and their
mobility, equipment and supplies, the construction of ranger houses, demarcation of
boundaries, and 3 man-months of technical assistance (park management specialist).
39.   Environmental Control would consolidate responsibilities at a regional level, under a
unified MAG authority. Currently, the Forestry Service has the only environmental control
facilities in the project area, and these consist of four control posts (puestos de control) at
which only timber traffic is controlled through a systems of Guias de Traslado. No one is
responsible for regulatory controls of the other natural resources of the area, namely soil,
water, and wildlife. Existing and incremental staff would be given in-service training to
improve their capacity to prepare and implement environmental norms, consistent with the
law. The training program would include environmental control (fiscalizaci6n) subjects
covering technical, legal, social and economic aspects. The social training would be
designed to help the control agents to work with the local authorities in implementing
regulatory controls, for which the municipalities are also responsible. An environmental
control manual would also be prepared for use by the control staff as well as for the local
government agencies.
40.   Forestry control posts would also be constructed at key locations throughout the
project area. The project would provide for incremental staff needed to control the project
area. This would include a chief control officer (Ing. Forestal K05), two university level
environmental specialists (Ing. Forestal K04), 17 control officers (Tecnico Forestal, I02), and
17 technicians (1106). The project would also provide two 4-wheel drive vehicles and 27
motorcycles, their fuel and maintenance, and radios.
1.    Decree numbers 30,954/73; 30,953/73; and 30,956/73, respectively.



- 48 -                                Annex 2
41.   Organization and Implementation. The MAG would have overall responsibility for
the project, and project responsibilities would be decentralized. Field implementation would
be coordinated by a unified management unit based at the two centers (CICAR and CRAE)
being organized in the project area. The CICAR center would be responsible for agro-
forestry research and extension, and would depend administratively on the Subsecretariat of
Agriculture. The CRAE center would be responsible for the implementation of the more
purely agro-forestry research, the protected area management, and the environmiental control
functions, and would depend administratively on the SSRNMA.
42.   Research activities would be located on-farm as well as on-station in order to integrate
the researcher with the farmer. To ensure good integration between the agro-forestry
research activities and the national park protection activities, research sites would be located
in areas near the park boundaries. There would be close collaboration among all project
staff (researchers, extension agents and park guards) to ensure efficient technology transfer
and natural resource conservation. Local NGOs, farmers' associations and community
groups would play an important role in the extension and conservation activities of the
project.
43.   The main benefits of the forestry and agro-forestry activities of the project would be
the training of a core staff for conservation and agro-forestry extension, the conservation of
biodiversity, the protection of wildlife, the reduction of wasteful deforestation, and the
protection of the environment. The protection of biodiversity, associated with the
establishment of conservation areas, would help ensure future genetic resources for
agricultural, forestry, medical, industrial and domestic uses. Because much of the proposed
protected area is on steep terrain, these reserves would protect watersheds and reduce erosion
by moderating water flows.
44.   The results of doing nothing (i.e., the "without project" situation) also need to be
examined. In some cases, deforestation and excessive erosion can result in irreversible soil
degradation, while in others, hundreds of years may be required for a system to recover
unless active and very expensive rehabilitation measures are applied. Furthermore, the
preservation of some ecosystems and wildlife habitats, which is in the best interest of society
as a whole, may not be readily evaluated on the basis of economics alone. This is also true
for activities aimed at the global concern of climatic stability. Because forests are believed
to be an important carbon dioxide sink, their existence may help control the level of this
important greenhouse gas in the atmosphere.



-49-                                Annex 3
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pilot Agricultural Credit Component
Introduction
1.    Larger farmers and businesses in the project area have reasonably good access to
formal sources of credit. At present, the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de
Fomento - BNF) has five branches, a private development bank (BUSAIF) has two branches,
and five commercial banks have at least one branch each in the smaller towns in the area.
All major commercial banks are represented in Ciudad del Este, but they service primarily
urban clients.
2.    The BNF and private banks normally require loan collateral of land or real estate
secured with a mortgage. This discourages smaller loans as the fixed cost for the borrower
of providing this collateral is substantial; a recent estimate put it at about 15% of the value of
a US$3,000 loan. Illustrative farm models show that most small farmers with holdings of
less than 20 ha are unlikely to qualify for loans of more than US$2,000 equivalent. It thus
seems certain that farmers in this category will not gain access to BNF or private banks for
their credit needs.
3.    For this reason, the project would finance a special intervention to provide credit to
these farmers. Some 5,500 small farmers make up this target group, and they represent
about 60 % of the farmers to be directly reached by the project. At present, only the
Smallholder Credit Agency (Credito Agricola de Habilitaci6n - CAH) operates successfully
with this group.
4.    A description of CAH's structure and operations is included in Annex 3, Appendix 1.
Its primary role is to provide supervised credit and technical assistance (TA) to the smallest
farmers who cannot gain access to more formal sources of financing. In its early years,
CAH gained a reputation for inefficiency and political patronage, but since 1989 the
Government has given CAH new management and budget resources to expand its programs.
To operate more efficiently, CAH is beginning to lend to cooperatives or individuals grouped
in the pre-cooperative form of an Agricultural Credit Users' Association (Asociaci6n de
Usuarios de Credito Agricola - AUCA). Its average loan size to a cooperative was
US$41,000 in 1991, and US$600 to the average farmer client.
5.    At the end of 1991, CAH's loan portfolio totalled only US$12.0 million, but this is a
six-fold increase in real terms over 1989. Partly because of its small size and high fixed
costs, its total cost of operations (including provisions) as a proportion of its loan portfolio
was 28% in 1991. This ratio is expected to improve, with its portfolio projected to grow
faster than its operating costs. At present, CAH's lending interest rate of 23% does not
cover its operating costs, and it receives annual support from the Government's budget. In



- 50 -                              Annex 3
1991, the proportion of its loan portfolio affected by arrears was 9% and its provision for
bad debts was 3 %. Both of these ratios are considered acceptable for this type of operation
in the LAC Region.
Description of the Component
6.    The project would include US$7.1 million of investments and inputs by small
farmers, producers of handicrafts and small agro-industry. The Bank would finance 70%
(US$5.0 million) of this amount. In order to receive credit, farmers would have a farm
development plan with conservation/resource management actions agreed with UCTAP and
CAH. CAH would ensure that its staff assigned to the Project had received training and that
its operational procedures are sufficient to carry out this environmental requirement. CAH
would also develop the accounting system to keep project accounts, prepare SOEs, and
control the arrears in the project loan portfolio.
7.    The project would also finance US$0.5 million of equipment, vehicles and TA to
strengthen CAH's operational capability in the project area and to improve its central
administration. CAH would need training to adopt environmental assessment practices in its
review of all farm plans it finances in the project area. Terms of reference for those studies
and TA to be completed in the first two years of the project would be approved by the Bank.
8.    Lending Terms. The Borrower would pass the funds for this component to CAH
under the terms specified in a Subsidiary Grant Agreement (SGA). The SGA and the Credit
Regulations would both be acceptable to the Bank. CAH would on-lend Bank funds under
the project at interest rates which would always exceed the higher of the average commercial
bank deposit rate or the previous twelve months' domestic inflation rate, as measured by the
CPI. In order to improve fiscal transparency, CAH would pay the Government a floating
interest rate equal to its final rate to clients minus a spread of 10%. The adequacy of the
spread would be reviewed regularly by the Bank and the Borrower. The Government would
take the foreign exchange risk, and CAH would repay loan principal net of an agreed
maximum annual arrears. This arrangement would give CAH an incentive to keep its arrears
to a level lower than the maximum, as it would be the beneficiary of increased cash flow.
9.    On average, CAH finances about 55% of the investments and inputs made by its farm
clients in the project area. CAH financing of non-farm clients would be limited to 70% of
their sub-projects. The Bank would reimburse CAH for 100% of qualifying sub-loans under
the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) procedure. Sub-loans to individuals would be expected
to average US$1,000 each and would be limited to a maximum of US$1,700. Sub-loans to
AUCAs and cooperatives would be limited to US$27,000 and US$82,000, respectively. The
Bank would reimburse 100% of the costs of equipment, vehicles and technical assistance.
10.   Lending Rates. Although CAH is legally free to set market-based lending rates, in
practice it follows the political guidance of the Government. The latter maintains the lending
rate for official banks positive in real terms, but substantially below the rates (an average of
31 % in 1992) charged by private banks, which are still subject to the high reserve
requirements of the Central Bank of Paraguay (Banco Central del Paraguay - BCP). At
present, CAH uses a uniform lending rate of 23%, compared to an average current



- 51 -                                Annex 3
commercial bank deposit rate of 21% and an inflation rate of 15% (estimated, 1992), as
measured by the Consumer Prices Index.
11.   An analysis of CAH's operating cost structure and its plans to expand its loan
portfolio show that CAH could probably eliminate its operating deficit if it charged lending
rates similar to commercial banks. While the project should pursue this long-term objective
of charging market rates, this may not be consistent with the Government's current policy of
transition.



- 52 -



-53 -                           Annex 3
Appendix 1
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Component:
The Smallholder Credit Agencv (Credito Agricola de Habilitaci6n - CAH)
Legal Framework
1.    CAH is an autonomous entity reporting to the Minister of Agriculture (MAG). Since
it began operating in 1943, its legal framework has been modified many times although its
main objective of assisting small-scale farmers with access to credit otherwise unavailable to
them has not changed. The Congress is currently reviewing a proposal for changes to update
CAH's operations to current economic conditions (i.e., ceilings for credit, interest rates,
guarantees, authorized capital, and for public bidding). Other changes would allow it
independently to raise financial resources through banking, commercial and industrial
activities. Should the Congress approve the changes proposed by CAH's management,
additional modifications to CAH by-laws may not be necessary to accomplish project
objectives.
Organization and Management
2.    The organizational structure of CAH has changed over time in a passive way rather
than through active leadership to attract more clients. Its current structure relies heavily on a
horizontal delegation of responsibilities (see Annex 3, Figure 1). The Management Council
of CAH is appointed by the Executive Power of the GOP for a term of five years. This
Council has five members and is presided over by a President who is expected to have
agricultural experience and a good knowledge of agricultural credit. The other four members
are the representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance, of the BCP and of the
Rural Welfare Institute (Instituto de Bienestar Rural - IBR).
3.    The management of day-to-day operations is delegated to two managers: (a) the
Administrative and Finance Manager, who is assisted by five in-line departments; and (b) the
Operations Manager, who is assisted by two in-line departments. Both managers report
directly to the President of the Management Council.
4.    CAH operations are conducted at its Headquarters in Asunci6n, in thirty-six field
offices in the Eastern Region of the country and one field office in the Western Region (the
Chaco). Fourteen of these field offices are regional management centers. Operational
decisions are centralized at Headquarters, with most loan requests being sent there for
approval. A better distribution of responsibilities and decision-making between Headquarters
and field offices would improve efficiency and speed up credit processing. A study would be
conducted under the project to seek a better balance between Headquarters and field
operations, particularly in the project area.



-54-                              Annex 3
Appendix 1
5.    CAH currently has 285 employees, of whom 45% are stationed at its Headquarters.
The staff in the field offices are predominantly agricultural specialists in field work. The
total staff has increased by 79% since 1989, in order to accommodate its recent expansion in
operations.
Lending Policies and Procedures
6.    The current lending policies of CAH are stated in its by-laws (Law 551/75). These
policies allow CAH to assist farmers, including those associated under AUCAs, cooperatives
or any group scheme, with technical assistance and with short-, medium- and long-term
credit for crop development, marketing, and the development of rural handicrafts.
7.    Should proposed changes to CAH by-laws be approved, it will also be allowed: (a) to
finance small-scale rural industries; (b) to set interest rates independently; and (c) to include
in its loan collaterals the future production of the farm.
8.    The current lending procedures of CAH are stated in its Credit Regulations as issued
in April, 1992. These regulations emphasize two main objectives: (a) to increase the income
levels of farmers; and (b) to upgrade farmers' capabilities to have access to formal
institutional credit.
9.    The main features of CAH's credit regulations are: (a) the repayment of principal and
interest payments are made on an annual basis; (b) repayment terms are: one year for short-
term, up to three years for medium-term, and up to seven years for long-term credit; (c)
ceilings for credit and for collateral are set on the basis of multiples of the minimum wage
level (these ceilings would be, as of June 1992, equivalent to about US$700 for a signature
loan, US$1,700 for a loan under collateral and US$3,400 for a mortgage loan); and (d)
assistance is provided for grouping farmers into AUCAs (that is, pre-cooperative schemes)
until they can develop into formal cooperatives. These regulations are adequate to reach the
type of farmers targeted under the project.
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
10.   Accounting, and the preparation of financial statements and related reports, is
centralized at CAH Headquarters. The accounting system is fully computerized, but some
minor improvements have been recommended by CAH's independent auditors. Internal audit
is performed by a specialized unit reporting directly to the President of the Management
Council. External audit is conducted by private independent auditors. CAH's financial
activities are reported regularly to the Central Bank and to the Superintendency of Banks
through the normal reporting procedures of the financial system.
11.   The current accounting system is adequate to manage trust funds and lines of credit.
This capability was developed to carry out the management of trust funds and lines of credit
made available to CAH through bilateral and multi-lateral development agencies (e.g., the
IDB, the IBRD, and the governments of the USA and of Germany).



- 55 -                           Annex 3
Appendix 1
12.   The project would finance technical assistance and the acquisition of additional office
equipment: (a) to improve CAH's accounting and reporting capabilities at the level of field
offices in the project area; (b) to develop a chart of accounts for the credit component; and
(c) to develop the software to prepare Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and to monitor the
project-related loan portfolio, particularly the ageing of arrears.
Lending Operations
13.   Until 1988, the growth of CAH's operations was very slow, mainly due to limited
financial resources and lack of adequate government support. Starting in 1989, larger budget
allocations made possible a six-fold increase of its loan portfolio in real terms, and the
addition of field offices, vehicles and staff. It has also contributed to a larger coverage of
area developed, and to a considerable increase of credit beneficiaries (see Annex 3, Appendix
1, Table 1).
14.   The bulk of CAH's lending has been short-term, mainly for production loans for
annual cash crops. During the agricultural year July 1990/June 1991, the average size of a
loan was equivalent to about US$850. Even though the farmers have to be organized under
some form of farmers association (e.g., AUCAs, cooperatives, or committees) to have access
to credit from CAH, the loans are granted to each individual on the basis of the financing
gap of each farmer.
Financial Performance
15.   The nature of CAH's objectives has guided its financial performance towards a non-
profit oriented management of its operations. Its performance has never been close to a self-
sustained level of operations, and its continuous losses have been covered by Government
budgetary allocations. Prior government policies of maintaining fixed and even negative real
rates of interest have also contributed to poor financial performance. In addition, the cost of
assisting low-income farmers with technical assistance and with small loans was too high to
be covered with revenues from its very small loan portfolio. At the end of 1991, its net
losses equaled 12% of its average loan portfolio. A summary of CAH's financial
performance is included in Annex 3, Appendix 1, Table 2.
16.   During the past two years, CAH has shown a relatively good performance in
managing its loan portfolio. The proportion of the portfolio affected by arrears was
reasonably small (6% and 9% during 1990 and 1991, respectively) considering the risks
involved. It should be noted that arrears for 1992 are expected to increase substantially as a
result of the recent shocks to the agricultural sector, and particularly to small farmers, caused
by abnormally low cotton prices and by flooding. At the end of 1991, CAH's provisions for
uncollectible loans equaled 34% of that portion of its total portfolio affected by arrears. This
provision would be higher if CAH had provisioned against loans which went into arrears in
1989-91. These latter have not been provisioned yet, because CAH still believes they can be
recovered without recourse to the judicial process, as most are covered by good collateral.



- 56 -                             Annex 3
Appendix 1
17.   Despite the substantial increase of the loan portfolio during the past three years, it is
too small to generate enough revenues to cover operating costs. Operating costs in 1991
were equal to 28% of its average loan portfolio. It would take a large increase of either the
size of the loan portfolio or the level of interest rates to generate enough revenue to cover
both fixed costs and financial costs. The average return on its loan portfolio at the end of
1991 was 15 %. Therefore, it would require an increase of at least fifteen points on its
average return to cover its operating cost. When the government policy is changed to
applying market interest rates in all official lending operations, including those of CAH, such
action should have a positive impact on CAH finances.



PAaGUAY
WR.R REOICGS  Shknc  Prtuec
ftl1bold.r Credit ncr. oraatioml Chrt
[ CCIL OF bIRULC'!
AWXSCY ST&" PM-ncY                  l
..    -I
|AD  IPWI TUrr|                    ZV&IW      II  ThJ.SPla    I           RCcEOFDWRC
| D"S  0  I F azmnSlr I   I     I     I      I                                I ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~D""Aiff  orI    D"mnOwrr
I DIV18 ;2 I DXlE_ I LmTI EaYVQY II~DIVISIMt LJL  2IMsI                              OPIDPIl
2=4Pasell  3ES1           O
towcrsslal ~  ~        ~        ~.. 0
1~~~~~~~It 1   1                                                        =1  1  1X1 1
Cf D E 
3Et                                                      3                                                                                  >4 



- 58 -                               Annex 3
Appendix 1
Table 1
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Component
CAH Operations Summary
AGRICULTURAL YEAR '
1988-89      1989-90      1990-91      1991-92
RESOURCES
Network (No.)                                25           25           29            38
Staff (No.)                                 159          159          204           285
Cars (No.)                                   16           20           33            35
Motorcycles (No.)                            --            7           42            49
CREDIT BENEFICIARIES
AUCAs                                       246          275          295           460
Committees                                    2            1           12            37
Cooperatives                                  2            1           12             16
Farmers @'                                 3658        4,146        8,871        15,743
LENDING
Loans Granted (No.)                       3,658        4,146        8,871        15,743
Amount Lent (G.) 3'                         781        1,112        8,109        18,420
Amount Lent (G.) 4/                         781          862        4,843         8,898
Amount Lent ($US)                             7.5          9.1          6.4           13.3
Collection Ratio (%)                         91           89           87           N/A
Area Developed (Has.)                    14,272       18,254       36,679        89,306
I /    From July to June
2/     Members of credit units (AUCAs, Committees, and Cooperatives)
3/     Millions of current Guaranies
4/     Millions of constant Guaranies (December 31, 1988)
5/     US$ millions at exchange rates effective as of December 31
(1988 US$1 = G.1035; 1989 US$1 = G.1220; 1990 US$1 = G.1262; 1991 US$1 = G.1382)
N/A    Not available



- 59 -                                           Annex 3
Appendix 1
Table 2
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credito Agricola de Habilitacion
Summary of Financial Performance
(millions of Guaranies)
A  S  S  E  T  S                                 1989          1990        1991
Cash and banks                                                                668        6502        10603
Current assets                                                                122         118            68
Loans due within one year                                                     737        4407        12480
Loans due over one year                                                       240        1801         3203
Loans in arrears                                                              367         368          1479
Provisions for uncollectibte Loans                                             --       (222)        (497)
Accrued interest and commission                                               489         688          1423
Provisions for uncollectibte interest and comm.                             (468)       (240)        (421)
Inventory                                                                     143         134          221
Deferred assets                                                               125         132           115
Other assets                                                                   43         574           503
Fixed assets (net of depreciation)                                            383         583         1530
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                 2849       14845        30707
L  I  A  B  I  L  I  T  I  E  S
Current Liabilities                                                           264        1182          2665
Accrued interest payable                                                       20           11           14
Borrowings due within one year                                                 33          40            34
Borrowings due over one year                                                  683        2809          7140
Other LiabiLities                                                              42          41            51
Equity                                                                       1807       10762        20803
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                            2849       14845        30707
I  N  C O    M  E    A  N  D    E  X  P  E  N  S  E
Revenues from Loans                                                           222         382          1789
Cost of borrowings                                                             12          56            49
Gross revenues from lending operations                                        210         326         1740
Sale of inputs and food suppLies                                              286         803         1343
Cost of sale of inputs and food suppLies                                      218         697          1278
Gross revenues from sales                                                      68         106            65
Other operational revenues                                                      9          21            12
Gross operational revenues                                                    287         453          1817
OperationaL expenditures                                                      241         493          1400
Administrative expenditures                                                   260         564          1189
General expenditures                                                           55         105           714
Total operationaL expenditures                                                556        1162         3303
Net operationaL income (Loss)                                               (269)       (709)       (1486)
Non operational revenues                                                       16          32            50
Contributions                                                                  66          76             -
NET INCOME (LOSS)                                                           (187)       (601)       (1436)
F  I  N  A  N  C  I  A  L    I  N  D  I  C  A  T  O  R  S
Return on gross Loan portfolio   (X)                                                        10           15
Cost of borrowings                   CX)                                                     3            1
Net income tloss)/Loan portfoLio t%)                                                     (15)          (12)
Net income (loss)/equity             tX)                                                  (6)          (60)
Arrears/equity                       CX)                                                    6             9
Operating cost/loan portfoLio    tX)                                                        3             7
Liquidity ratio (times)                                                                    29            28
Debt/equity ratio (times)                                                                   9             9
0.4          0.5



- 60 -



- 61 -                              Annex 4
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Institutional Capacity Analysis and DeveloDment
Introduction
1.    A systematic Institutional Capacity Analysis (ICA) of the intended implementing
universe of entities was carried out during project preparation and loan processing. This
ICA led to the identification of substantial, though solvable, institutional capacity gaps
(ICGs) which have been the basis for the design of institutional development (ID) inputs.
These have been either: (a) built into the respective project components; or (b) assembled
into the institutional development component, in order to organize and strengthen overall
organization and management and the implementation capacity of the coordination functions.
Institutional Capacity Analysis (ICA)
2.    To ensure a more adequate and refined ICA of the implementing institutional universe
(see Annex 4, Figure 1), project objectives were first desegregated into the tasks necessary:
(a) to acquire the goods and services for which resources are being mobilized under the
project; (b) to use them efficiently; and (c) to ensure sustainability of the benefits obtained
through the efficient use of goods and services. Capacity gaps were assessed for each task
and from each one of the major capacity element viewpoints that, out of experience in
Paraguay, have been known to hamper development activities.
3.    Institutional Universe of the Agricultural Sector. Since the change of government
in early 1989, the agricultural sector's institutional setting has undergone several changes,
sometimes disruptive rather than yielding any improvement. These changes have been
justified by the need to break the prevailing rigidity and centralized decision-making process.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia - MAG)
has the overall responsibility for defining and implementing the role of the state and the
corresponding sectoral development policies in Paraguay. For project implementation, the
National Office of Project Coordination and Administration (Oficina Nacional de
Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n - ONCAP) was established in 1983 on an inter-ministerial
basis to ensure coordination, and to help overcome implementation issues of rural and
regional development projects. It has recently been put under the responsibility of MAG,
and with the entry into effect of the new Carta Organica has become the Direcci6n Nacional
de Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n (DINCAP).
4.    Colonization of new areas and small farner settlement is the responsibility of the
Rural Welfare Institute (Instituto de Bienestar Rural - IBR) which has been instrumental in
opening new areas and developing cash crops, in particular cotton, although it has often been
judged as an inefficient entity. Agriculture credit has been the responsibility of several
entities not necessarily interrelated: the Livestock Fund (Fondo Ganadero - FG) of the



- 62 -                                Annex 4
Central Bank (Banco Central del Paraguay - BCP), the National Development Bank (Banco
Nacional de Fomento - BNF), and the Smallholder Credit Agency (Credito Agricola de
Habilitaci6n - CAH). Agricultural research and extension have been the responsibility of two
MAG Directorates. They have been rather weak, particularly in the case of small farmers
who are the most in need of extension and adapted technology.
5.    Environmental protection is under the Sub-secretariat of Natural Resources and the
Environment (Sub-secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Medio Ambiente - SSRNMA) within
the MAG. Entities for social development will also have a role in implementing key aspects
of the project, including health and education. Basic health programs and the protection of
local indigenous communities will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public
Health and Social Welfare (Ministerio de Salud Publica v Bienestar Social - MSPBS).
Education in general, and education for the indigenous communities in particular, are under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educaci6n y Culto - MEC).
Institutional Universe of the Project
6.    The institutions which will participate in or otherwise affect the implementation of the
project are described in Annex 4, Figure 1. The institutions are not always well defined in
terms of their inter-relationships and they operate with differing levels of autonomy and
efficiency.
7.    Rules of the Game. The project as designed implies a certain amount of
decentralization. The Government insists in its important objective of letting the project area
make the most important decisions in terms of overall development plan and activities.
However, legislation related to any decentralization process is virtually non-existent. Key
entities that are to operate locally, such as the Project Technical and Administrative
Coordination Unit (Unidad de Coordinaci6n Tecnica y Administraci6n del Proyecto -
UCTAP), the Research and Training Center for South-East Paraguay (Centro de
Investi gaci6n Rural - CICAR), and the Regional Environmental Center (Centro Regional
Ambiental del Este - CRAE), will be created by Decree. The lack of decentralization
legislation or regulations will mean that progress in the development of these institutions may
be slowed. The project would virtually be the first attempt to operate in a decentralized
manner for which officials in the agricultural sector from both central and project area levels
would have to work on the basis of participatory and consensual processes.
8.    Other legislation and regulation have certain deficiencies or are unclear. This applies
in particular to environmental protection-related rules of the game. The work being done
under the First Japanese PHRD grant will make detailed practical recommendations for the
implementation of its proposed legal and regulatory framework concerning the use and
protection of natural resources.
9.    Inter-institutional Relationships. The network of entities that will have a role in
implementing the project at the national and regional levels is complex. The project design
includes the definition of the network of inter-institutional relationships, with a clear
distribution of roles and adequate and transparent systems of accountability.



- 63 -                               Annex 4
10.   The most important capacity gaps concern how responsibilities are defined and shared
between the national and regional levels. Major issues arise not only from this lack of
adequate definition of how roles are distributed: in addition, flows of funds are controlled at
the center. Budgetary processes are highly concentrated in the Ministry of Finance. As a
result, considerable delays in acquiring goods and services included in the project, and in
disbursement flows in general, would occur particularly among decentralized levels (i.e.,
project area entities) if they are not given the relevant levels of authority. In general, the
central administration has little presence locally, and within the central administration, past
experience reveals difficult relationships between MAG/MEC, MAG/MSPBS, and
MAG/IBR, whose functions and responsibility are not always clearly defined.
11.   Internal Organization. In MAG, functions tend to be duplicated because there is no
conscious uniform processes for planning, budgeting, accounting, internal control, or
personnel management. Different units within MAG may have different procurement
procedures or even lack of clear norms and procedures.
12.   Personnel Poliay and Reward System. The level of salaries in the public sector and
compensation packages in general do not allow for retaining competent professionals. As a
result, staff turn over is high and those remaining in the implementing entities lack
motivation to activate their skills at the optimum level. Furthermore, as they are forced to
have a second and, occasionally, even a third job in order to reach a minimum level of
income, they do not have the time and sense of security which would allow them to
concentrate on their tasks and ensure the required performance. Presently, most of the
entities involved, MAG in particular, lack the skill mix and levels of professional expertise
required. This is particularly true for planning, budgeting and for mid-level management
functions. Research and extension also lack minimum competent staff, and related entities do
not have the flexibility to staff themselves adequately. The solution to such issues is
worsened by the lack of clearly defined civil service systems or careers in the different
public sector agencies. Finally, there is no training plan offered to civil servants, no
personnel evaluation mechanisms, or hope for objective promotion.
13.   Skills.  Partly as a consequence of the capacity gaps signalled above, most of the
personnel in the involved entities lack the skill mix required for successful project
implementation, at both the management and administrative levels.
The Institutional Development Component (IDC)
14.   Technical assistance and training activities, in addition to the financing of equipment,
vehicles and of selected recurrent costs, have been included in the components of the project
to strengthen the related entities. ID inputs related to the strengthening of overall
coordination and project management functions have been included in the IDC.
15.   Institutional Arrangements for Implementation. Past project experience in
Paraguay has shown that the lack of institutional capacity has been a key factor in explaining
shortcomings and non-satisfactory project implementation. ONCAP, which has played an
important role in helping coordinate project implementation in recent years, has not been able
to solve major inter-institutional relationship issues that have seriously hampered development



- 64 -                                Annex 4
activities. Its recent transfer under the responsibility of MAG may create better conditions
for success in new agricultural development activities, but does not by itself automatically
ensure this result. Experience has also shown that the centralized decision-making processes
that have prevailed in Paraguay are detrimental to successful production activities, in
particular in the agricultural sector, and that decentralized mechanisms, involving a more
systematic participation of the beneficiaries themselves, under overall coordination of MAG,
are more likely to achieve intended development objectives. The proposed project design
encompasses relevant lessons of experience described in the main text. These have also been
reflected in the design of institutional arrangements for implementation, which are
summarized as follows:
Table 1. Institutional Responsibilities
Component/Sub-component                                  Institutional Responsibility
(a) Agricultural Development:
- Agricultural Production and Natural Resources Management   CICAR/CRAE
- Forestry and Environmental Conservation              CICAR/CRAE
- Training, T.A. and Social Organization               UCTAP
- FOCORN                                               UCTAP
(b) Indigenous Conimunities                              INDI/UCTAP/MEC/MSPBS
(c) Infrastructure Development:
- Roads                                               MOPC/UCTAP
(d) Institutional Development                            UCTAP
(e) Filot Agricultural Credit                            CAH
16.   MAG's DINCAP would be responsible for the overall coordination and administration
of the project. MAG will create by Decree the new local regional administrative units
necessary for project implementation, which are: (a) UCTAP, for project management and
coordination in the project area; (b) CICAR, to channel research and extension services to be
delivered under the project; and (c) CRAE, to ensure coordination in the execution of all
environmentai protection-related project activities.
17.   UCTAP. Under DINCAP, this unit would be headed by a national coordinator,
assisted by three executive area coordinators and strengthened at the political level by a
Regional Operational Committee (COR) to promote inter-institutional harmony at the regional
level. Relationships would be structured directly from UCTAP's area coordinators to MAG
central or decentralized entities, as day-to-day operations warrant. Special agreements
(convenios) would be entered into with entities in charge of supervising the rehabilitation of
rural roads, credit, social development, indigenous communities and support to small
industries. The administration and finance coordinator would ensure adequate management
of accounting, budgeting, personnel and legal aspects.
18.   UCTAP's overall coordinator would be further assisted by the Institutional
Development Component (IDC) to review the institutional capacity of the project, update



- 65 -                              Annex 4
information, and formulate recommendations as the institutional development process
progresses with project support. The IDC would be implemented by a specialist who would
also be responsible for the coordination of acquisition and efficient use of ID inputs, as well
as for the sustainability of the resulting benefits. He would also be responsible for
coordinating Annual Operating Plan (POA) presentations by the different implementing
entities, and for consolidating it thereafter, and for the monitoring of its implementation,
including the formulation of mitigating recommendations when necessary.
19.   UCTAP would operate a management information system to monitor project activities
and administration, initially through a system already used by DINCAP and later, as
specified in a Manual, to be adjusted in order to guide the decentralization process. UCTAP
would also be responsible for ensuring flows of information with the COR and to seek
approval of financial programming resulting from the management of the FOCORN.
Similarly, the COR will also approve consolidated POAs before they are sent to the Bank for
information and comment.
20.   Operational Relationships between DINCAP and UCTAP. The project regional
administrative entities, UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE, would be coordinated by DINCAP
within MAG. Its capital and operating expenditures would follow normal budgetary and
accounting systems satisfactory to the Bank. UCTAP may enter into management
agreements with UNDP/OPS or similar service provider, acceptable to the Bank. The draft
of such an agreement was agreed at negotiations.
21.   The Regional Operational Committee (COR). The COR will aggregate all
implementing entities with a major role in project implementation, namely: MAG (including
UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE); Regional Offices of the MIC; Farmers' Committees;
Municipalities; and Cooperatives, and it will be coordinated by a permanent Secretary. The
COR would be created at the same time as UCTAP, within the same Decree, and would also
stimulate the widest possible participation of beneficiaries' organizations and of the private
sector in general.
22.   The COR would be used as a support mechanism to UCTAP in general, and in
progressively creating the network of relationships necessary for project success and
sustainability. The COR would provide a key mechanism to bridge many of the identified
ICGs listed in the previous section. It would perform this role through constant information
flows to and from participating entities and through regular meetings (e.g., POA and
progress reports approval) and extraordinary meetings (e.g., to resolve possible conflicts) of
its members.
23.   Conclusion. The above institutional arrangements for implementation are satisfactory
and would lead to smooth inter-institutional relationships between the national and regional
levels and within the regional level itself. The corresponding mechanisms based on wide
participation of national and regional entities and the private sector, primarily the project
beneficiaries and their organizations, can resolve traditional inter-institutional conflicts in
Paraguay, as well as the need for learning how to be accountable for efficient results when
decentralization processes are carried out, and when new responsibilities are to be assumed
by regional authorities and professionals. It is expected that many of the identified ICGs



- 66 -                               Annex 4
related to governance, rules and regulations, and inter-institutional relationships would be
bridged in time to ensure project success and create satisfactory conditions of sustainability.
However, the scope of the overall institutional strengthening that is required, and the very
process described above about these institutional arrangements for implementation, require
specific institutional development inputs that have been added to what is already included in
the project components. These additional inputs are described below.
Project Coordination, Management, and Institutional Development Inputs.
24.   The IDC has been designed to provide inputs necessary to bridge the identified ICGs.
The IDC includes: (a) government decisions that are reflected in project conditionality; (b)
specialized assistance to bridge identified ICGs that require-inter alia-the introduction of
"management and administrative technology"; (c) training activities to bridge specific skill
gaps; and (d) financing for incremental recurrent costs, in particular for the functioning of
UCTAP.
25.   Many ICGs can be bridged by simple GOP decisions. In the first place, the GOP will
create UCTAP by Decree, and a Manual of functions and responsibilities will be produced
that sets the rules for UCTAP's functioning. This would include: responsibilities for
decision-making capacity at every level; procurement responsibilities and procedures;
disbursement; financial flows for counterpart funds; and budgeting systems. This Decree
would include UCTAP, CICAR and CRAE. An additional Decree from MAG would
describe new functions for MAG's administrative units involved in project implementation,
including the required corresponding staff. The FOCORN would be ruled by Ministerial
resolution.
26.   Inter-institutional agreements (convenios) would be entered into between: MAG -
MOPC; MAG - MSPBS; MAG - MEC; MAG - IBR; and MAG - MIC. Formal agreements
would also be entered into between MAG and the project area municipalities.
27.   Specialist Assistance. Overall, the project includes 573 man-months of specialist
assistance, of which 361 man-months (224 of local consultants and 137 of international
consultants) are assigned to the different components. The remaining 212 man-months (172
of local and 40 of international) are assigned to the UCTAP for the strengthening of the
coordination and overall management functions, including support to the different
implementing entities. Three key individuals would be recruited internationally as
consultants. An organization specialist would be hired for a period of 18 months, who would
help the Paraguayan counterpart (MAG) create the institutional development function in
UCTAP. He/she would ensure that the inter-institutional network agreed for project
implementation is progressively put into place and that all involved entities are aware of their
responsibilities. The consultant would also ensure that the technical assistance and training
inputs of the project are acquired and used efficiently towards bridging identified ICGs. In
this respect, he/she would be responsible for supervising the work of all other consultants in
general and those hired for central ID functions in particular. The consultant would assist in
establishing the structure necessary for monitoring activities throughout the project entities,
and define mechanisms for the preparation and consolidation of future POAs.



- 67 -                                Annex 4
28.   The organization specialist would be assisted by: (a) a specialist in financial
administration and accounting to analyze financial flows and regulations, in order to facilitate
their implementation and enforcement, to help draft the corresponding manuals to ensure
harmony through dissemination in all implementing entities, and to help train local staff; and
(b) a monitoring and evaluation specialist, to help define and put into place the corresponding
mechanisms using the POA. In addition, local consultants would help UCTAP's
management and staff to carry out special studies and support the international team in
carrying out its work program. This would include:
(a)    a lawyer who would: (i) review the current Constitution, legislation and body
of regulations related to project implementation, in particular within a
decentralization environment, and prepare new texts to be suggested to the
legislature through project authorities in MAG; (ii) review legal implications of
all project elements in the light of these new texts; (iii) review legal aspects at
the municipal level, in particular in establishing relationships with the central
authorities; (iv) help formulate and draft specific agreements (convenios)
between implementing entities at all administrative levels; and (v) review the
legislation related to natural resource management and propose amendments as
necessary to help achieve project objectives in related components;
(b)   a financial administration specialist/accountant to help the international
consultant carry out the work program and, in particular, to ensure
sustainability of the new procedures; and
(c)   an organization specialist to help prepare specific manuals.
29.   The total cost of the technical assistance sub-program is estimated at US$ 2.6 million,
including US$700,000 for UCTAP and the overall organization, coordination and
management functions, and the remaining US$ 1.9 million for implementing entities'
strengthening.
30.   Training Activities. Most of the skill gaps identified during project preparation and
loan processing can be bridged through short-term training activities, and only three training
activities would be long-term. The overall project includes about 150 practical, task
implementation-oriented training activities for about 2,600 staff members and 14,000
farmers. This has been considered as an investment cost built into each component.
Training contents encompass a wide spectrum of curricula ranging from management to basic
farming skills including general administration, operational rules for implementing the
project, specific procurement procedures, monitoring, planning of training activities,
programming and budgeting, social relations, group dynamics, and training evaluation. The
training sub-program finally includes the provision of farming skills for the introduction of
more adequate farming technology and practices. These skills would be transferred both
directly and through better trained extension agents. UCTAP's IDF will be responsible for
directly implementing the training program related to its management functions and will
support other entities to implement theirs.



PARAGUAY
NATURAL flESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Inter-institutional Organigram
L+l 91  1   1  L00- 1+1 L<l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oA              .                                       -,    -'
- l.            _~A  c-wc - ]
l  =   l ~     iG
LX                                  1e12Wk~
43    [<     [-                                                    o
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



- 69 -                               Annex 5
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Infrastructural Development: Rural Roads
Introduction
1.    The rural road network serving the project area is of variable quality. In many cases,
the existing roads follow the routes of old forest-penetration tracks or the layouts of IBR
settlements. Some roads have been improved by the adjacent landowners, either to support
their own productive activities or as part of a process of private colonization involving the
fractioning of large land-holdings. These roads have not always followed the optimum route,
either from the physical aspect or from the point of view of efficiently connecting with the
main roads of the national road system. This has made necessary the development of a set of
feeder roads.
Sub-Component Design
2.    In the basic design of the road network for the project, the principal objectives were
to reduce the costs to road-users and to improve accessibility, particularly in wet weatner.
The sub-component would therefore: (a) reconstruct, improve and maintain the access roads
to all of the colonized areas, which currently suffer from prolonged periods of lack of
access; and (b) cooperate with the process of agro-ecological zoning, to allow sustainable
resource use consistent with the requirements of conservation.
3.    The physical road planning has concentrated on an improvement in access between
areas of production and population, to improve regular access and to ensure that the peak
demands (e.g., of soybean harvest) can be adequately met. The existing roads (Routes 6 and
7, and the new highway in the north of the project area from Hernandarias to Catuete) form
the main collectors of the system, and the proposed new and renovated access roads will be a
combination of all-weather and dry-weather roads. In the design of the network, a road
inventory was carried out and an analysis made of existing and potential land use including
projections of the output of main crops by District. Emphasis has been placed on
maximizing the proportion of the population reached and on serving the major production
centers and port terminals on the Parana river.
4.    The Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras PNiblicas v Comunicaciones -
MOPC) is responsible for the road system. The Rural Roads Unit (Unidad de Caminos
Rurales - UCR) of the Directorate of Rural Roads (Direcci6n de Caminos Vecinales - DCV)
of the MOPC classifies rural roads as either principal (feeder roads) or secondary (farm
access roads). This sub-component is concerned with the improvement or new construction
of feeder-roads and their subsequent maintenance. The differentiation between the use of all-
weather or dry-weather surface for these roads was based on the expected traffic loadings.



- 70 -                              Annex 5
All-weather roads will have a stabilized surface of crushed stone, whereas the dry-weather
roads would be of graded and compacted earth.
5.    The proposed objectives of the sub-component are defined in terms of the National
Rural Roads Program: First Stage (Programa Nacional de Caminos Rurales - PNCR), which
was produced by the DJV (since renamed DCV) in 1990 with technical assistance from the
IDB. The technical characteristics of the design were based on the norms provided by the
UCR.
Environmental Aspects
6.    Environmental considerations were important in the design of the sub-component.
The fundamental role played by roads in putting pressure on natural resources was explicitly
recognized, particularly in the processes of timber extraction and of deforestation to
incorporate land into agricultural use. The Environmental Analysis (EA) of the project, the
Summary of which is presented in Annex 12, strongly recommended that a case-by-case
approach should be adopted wherever it was proposed to abandon a road because of its poor
alignment and replace it with a new road. The EA strongly argued that the abandonment of
a road would not necessarily result in a reduction of the erosion hazard, and might
conceivably exacerbate the problem. The approach of analyzing each stretch of road on its
merits will be adopted in the process of final design.
7.    The proposed new roads would follow the water-shed. The existing roads would be
improved unless this would cause conflict with other criteria. The network design has
attempted to maximize the access of producers. Movements of earth would be minimized,
consistent with the need to achieve adequate superficial drainage.
The Sub-Component
8.    The sub-component consists of two programs: (a) the improvement of the basic rural
road network, via the renovation and up-grading of existing roads; and (b) road maintenance.
9.    On the basis of a detailed road inventory, the actual need for reconstruction and
improvement extends to 1,004 kms of rural roads in the project area. This has been divided
into two phases; the higher priority work, extending to 445 kms, will be undertaken within
the Natural Resources Management Project, and the second phase, comprising the remaining
559 kms, will be the subject of a later project.
10.   The detailed design, construction and supervision of the work would be done by
private sector consultants and contractors. The bidding and award of contracts would be
undertaken under the supervision of the DCV/MOPC.
11.   The technical norms of the UCR/MOPC have been used in the road inventory and
diagnostic study; those roads with an existing access level of Category 3 will be improved,
whereas those with an access level of Category 4 will be reconstructed. The difference
between them is in the degree of work involved, with the exception of the all-weather roads
which will receive additional work in the compaction of the surface with granular material.



- 71-                               Annex 5
12.   The maintenance program will cover the new and renovated roads. Based on the
recommendations of the PNCR, the maintenance program will be undertaken by local
organizations supervised by the DCV/MOPC. The DCV will make equipment available to
the Local Road Committees (Juntas Viales Locales - JVL) which will be responsible for its
maintenance and for all the costs of the maintenance program, including fuel, materials and
labor.
Road Planning
13.   Based on the detailed inventory and analysis of the existing road network, and taking
into account the PNCR - First Stage, a tentative physical plan was produced, which can be
summarized as follows:
Table 1. Tentative Physical Plan
Reconstruction and lmprovement:
All-weather roads, 6m-wide compacted surface               646 kms
Dry-weather roads, 7m-wide earth surface                   398 kms
Total                                                     1,044 kms
Maintenance:
Minor improvements and maintenance                         800 kms
Routine maintenance
(1) 1,044 kms
(2) 300 kms of roads (constructed under Loan 1418-PA)    1.344 kms
Total                                                     2,144 kms
14.   The tentative physical plan was subjected to detailed scrutiny. In the preparation of
the definitive plan of the road network, emphasis was placed on the important role which
roads play in the evolution of natural resource use. The following were key considerations:
(a)   the road network must connect the areas of population and production, and
integrate then with the main (trunk) road infrastructure and the Parana river;
(b)   alternative alignments to existing minor roads must be carefully considered,
especially where IBR colonies are concerned in which many of the roads have
significant slopes and serious technical deficiencies;
(c)   the road network must support the watershed management plans, which are the
basis for the achievement of sustainable agriculture and conservation of natural
resources; and



- 72 -                              Annex 5
(d)   the existing roads should be used where possible; however, where this is in
conflict with the preservation of natural resources, alternative road alignments
must be studied, in particular to ensure wherever possible that roads follow the
watershed.
15.   The definitive physical plan includes the definition of priorities between the groups of
roads which make up the sub-component, which implies the following immediate actions:
(a)   preparation of detailed engineering designs of the roads in the priority areas in
the north of the Department of Alto Parana, which will improve access to the
new settlements being established by MAG in coordination with MOPC; and
(b)   final designs must be undertaken, as soon as possible, in order to allow
sufficient time for bidding and contract award.
The tentative physical plan was subjected to close scrutiny and testing with the demands of
the natural resource management plan (based on the development of catchment areas). In
particular, the alignment of roads according to watersheds was carefully studied. The
resulting definitive physical plan can be summarized as follows:
Table 2: Definite Physical Plan
(km.)
First Stage    Second Stage        Total
Constrction of new roads:
All-weather roads                243             415               658
Dry-weather roads                202             144               346
Total                            445             559             1,004
Maintenance:
New roads                        445
Total                            445
The First Stage, to be carried out under the project and to be built in the first three years of
the project, covers 445 km of roads divided into seven groups, as shown in Annex 5, Table
3.
16.   DINCAP will be responsible for the administrative and financial arrangements for the
construction and maintenance of the proposed rural roads. The UCR/DJV of MOPC will
exercise a supervision function and will receive institutional strengthening. The
Environmental Unit (Unidad de Medio Ambiente - UMA) of MOPC will be responsible for
assisting the UCR in including the necessary elements in its guidelines to ensure that the
adverse impact of roads on natural resources is minimized. The terms of reference for the



-73-                               Annex 5
production of final designs and engineering specifications of roads will be subject to the
Bank's approval.
17.   The most important benefit of the roads sub-component will be the reduction in costs
of transport stemming from: (a) reduced wear and tear on vehicles and reduced fuel use; and
(b) reduced time spent in travel and transport, associated with better road quality and access.
18.   The guidelines provided by the PNCR have been closely followed in the approach to
implementation of the sub-component. The implementing agency will be MOPC through the
DJV. The DJV implements the PNCR, and as such manages funds and contracts design
services (consultants) and construction. It also establishes agreements with public and private
bodies at the local level for road maintenance. Other participating institutions would be:
(a)   the UCR, as technical unit of the DJV, which would be responsible for
planning, budgeting, coordinating implementation, supervising and monitoring,
and ex post evaluation;
(b)   intermediate bodies (e.g., JVL), created by the municipalities and other local
bodies, which would undertake maintenance with equipment provided by
MOPC and with financial resources from the local community;
(c)   the Directorate of Budget (Direcci6n de Ejecuci6n y Control Presupuestario -
DECP);
(d)   the Transport Planning and Coordination Office (Oficina de Coordinaci6n y
Planificaci6n Integral del Transporte - OCPIT);
(e)   Consulting Firms, which would be responsible for detailed design and
supervision of construction;
(f)   Contractors, which would compete via ICB called by DJV; and
(g)   UMA (MOPC), which would be responsible for environmental assessment,
and for direct and indirect cost calculation.



- 74 -                                            Annex 5
Table 3
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Rural Roads: Groups A. B & C
Length (km.)         Roads
included
All-    Dry-             in the            Access    Justification for
Proposed Roads                    Weather Weather Total  first stage Group  LeveL   "ALL-weather" status
A. Route 6 Feeder Roads
Purpose: to connect major
production areas with
Route 6 and the Parana river.
CAAGUY-POTY-ALTO VERA-HOE PIRAPOI       -       38      38         *         7      4
Ma. AUXILIADORA-TRIUNFO 23             20        -      20         *         7      4   PopuLation - Production
GRAMOPAR-CUCHILLON-NAC. TEMBEY           -      32      32                          4
LOMA LINDA-VICTORIA                     -        9       9         *         7      4
NARANJITO PALANCA-RUTA 6               20        -      20                          4   Population - Production
DIVISORIA-PTO. 7 DE AGOSTO             64         -     64                          4   Production
SILOS IRUNA-LOS CERDOS TAVAI           40        -      40                          4   Population - Production
CRUCE IRUNA-SAN CARLOS-CRUCE YUKY       -       23      23                          4
SAN ALFREDO-IRUNA-COL. ABATYTIGUE    46          -      46                          4   Production
RUTA 6-NARANJAL SAN CRISTOBAL          48        -      48         *         6      4   Population - Production
AURORA-FILA CUE-PTO. PARANAMBU         50         -     50                          4   Population - Production
STA. RITA-SAN VICENTE                   -       11                 *         6      4
STA. RITA-STA. ROSA-PTO. IRALA         56        -      56                          4   Population - Production
COL. COLMAN-SAN FRANCISCO               -       19      19         *         5      4
CRUCE MARGARITA-DOLORES                12        -      12         *         5      4   Population - Production
EST. SERV. JM-CEDRALES                 25        -      25         *         5      4   Population - Production
SUB-TOTAL                             381      132    513
B. Northern Part of Project Area
Purpose: to provide improved
access for newly-settled areas.
JUAN E. O'LEARY-SAN CRISTOBAL          70        -      70                          4   PopuLation - Production
COL. YGUAZU-BALSA-ACARAY MI            33        -      33         *         4      4   Population - Production
NOELIA-REP. YGUAZU-STA. TERESA           -      27      27                          4   PopuLation - Production
TRONCAL 1-ITAIPU                        -       38      38         *         4      4   Population - Production
TRONCAL 2-ITAIPU                       16        -      16                          4   Population - Production
GRANJA DOS HNOS. GBEBAS 2,3,4,5         -       55      55         *         3      4   Population - Production
NACANINA-YTAKYRY-ZANJA MOROTI          50        -      50         *         2      4   PopuLation - Production
CRUCE SAN FCO.-CRUCE MBARACAYU          -       14      14         *         2      4   Population - Production
M. MILAGROSA-LIMOY                       -      18      18         *         1      4   PopuLation - Production
CRUCE DULCE-STA. MARIA-AO PIRANY       55        -      55         *         1      4   Population - Production
SUB-TOTAL                             224      152    376
C. Expansion of the network
in the area of influence of
Ln. 1418-PA
Purpose: to connect the
trunk road Sta. Clara-Mayor
Otano with Route 6.
S. RAFAEL-CAICISA-NUDO PELADO          53        -      53                          4   Production
EL ENCUENTRO-COL. YACUTINGA             -       17      17                          4
SAN LORENZO 14-KIMEX                    -       29      29                          4
CAICISA-PARAJE LINDO-AGROCHACO          -       16      16                          4
SUB-TOTAL                              53       62     115
TOTAL                                 658      346    1004



-75 -                               Annex 5
19.   The DJV would be provided with incremental resources to enable it to fulfill the
functions assigned to it under the project. This has been included in the investment costs of
the rural roads sub-component; 3 % of the estimated capital costs have been assigned to the
DJV to cover monitoring and supervision of the proposed works.
Project Costs and Financing
20.   Road construction would be undertaken via contracts awarded by ICB. Maintenance
will be done by local administration. The costs of studies and final engineering designs have
been estimated at US$1,350 per km. The certification of works and monitoring of progress
of construction has been included as the equivalent of 10% of capital costs.
21.   Budget cost estimates have been made in accordance with the norms of the PNCR; the
materials quantities and operations vary according to the slope of the land and "level of
access" which the road represents before work begins. The costs developed by the PNCR
are as follows:
Table 4: Road Construction Costs
Costs - Reconstruction and Improvement (US$ per km.)
Slope
Level of Access           Gentle        Moderate         Severe
(ex ante)              < 3%            3-6%           > 6%
4                   14,246         19,891          23,645
3                   13,346         18,048          21,938
2                   12,466         16,705          20,232
Surface stabilization (i.e., to improve the quality from a dry-weather to all-weather road) has
been calculated by the PNCR as US$11,475 per km.
22.   Based on the demands made concerning the environment, road courses would follow
the watershed and both earth-moving and the need for structures would thus be minimized.
The basic cost has therefore been defined as corresponding to an access level of four and a
gentle slope. The cost defined in the PNCR for dry-weather roads (US$14,246 per km) has
been increased to US$18,000 per km to recognize the additional costs for environmental
protection. Elevation of the standard to an all-weather road increases the cost to US$30,000
per km.
Road maintenance programs
23.   The costs include: (a) the acquisition of equipment; and (b) routine maintenance
(including operating costs and the provision of materials). Three "road maintenance



- 76 -                              Annex 5
committees" (Comite Vecinal Pro-Camino - CVPC) would be established, based at
Asentamiento Santa Maria, Granja "Dos Hermanos" and Santa Rita.
24.   The unit costs defined in the PNCR to carry out the seven basic operations involved
in road maintenance are considered high, given that the type of road to be constructed will
specifically be designed to reduce many of the maintenance costs (which are themselves a
function of erosion). The PNCR estimate of US$540 per km per year has been reduced to
US$400 per km per year.



-77-                               Annex 6
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Natural Resources Conservation Fund (FOCORN)
Introductin
1.    The purpose of the FOCORN is to make financial resources available, on a pilot
basis, to agricultural producers to undertake on-farm investments designed to correct
distortions caused by the rapid process of deforestation and incorporation of land into
agricultural production. Land development in the project area for the most part has been
undertaken without taking into account the appropriate use of land or its topographical
characteristics, creating a problem of erosion and degradation of natural resources. For the
long-term development of agriculture, this process must be slowed and eventually reversed.
2.    The availability of funds under the FOCORN would encourage and promote the
adoption of technology and investments to counter the process of degradation of natural
resources. The strategy would be based on the organization of producers in those catchment
areas most at risk and the promotion of technology to conserve resources while sustaining
agricultural production. The investments would include:
(a)   increasing the degree of plant cover of the soil as a means of countering the
erosive effect of rainfall;
(b)   increasing the degree of absorption of rainfall by the soil, reducing run-off and
increasing soil moisture availability for crop production;
(c)   controlling surface water flows;
(d)   re-orientation of cultivation methods (e.g., minimum tillage methods) and re-
equipment;
(e)   the preservation and use of germ-plasm of forestry species;
(f)   recuperation of fertility and appropriate use of soils;
(g)   the diversification of production; and
(h)   controlling pollution, particularly that associated with agricultural chemicals.
3.    The FOCORN would be managed by the UCTAP and would provide financial
resources for the implementation of activities described in the Sub-Component of Agricultural
Production and Natural Resources Management. It would be applied in 50 catchment areas
in the watersheds of the Monday, Tembey and Acaray rivers, representing 3,000 producers



- 78 -                              Annex 6
on 150,000 ha. An additional 4-5,000 producers distributed throughout the project area
would also be included in the project as recipients of technical assistance.
Operational Strategy
4.    The use of the FOCORN would recognize three different levels of technology used in
agriculture:
(a)   small-scale quasi-subsistence farming, using insignificant to low levels of
investment and inputs, and principally operated by family labor;
(b)   small-scale commercial farming, using animal traction and limited quantities of
purchased inputs; and
(c)   wholly-mechanized, medium- and large-scale farming.
The catchment area would be the basic planning unit; in the project area the catchment area
is typically of 2-3,000 ha and contains an average of 60 production units.
5.    The UCTAP will be responsible for the preparation of the development plans to be
followed in the individual catchment areas, and will authorize and control the disbursement
of FOCORN resources at the farm and community level. The preparation of plans may be
carried out by consultants under the control of UCTAP. The provision of resources from the
FOCORN would follow a three-phase process:
(a)   In the first phase, the physical characteristics of the catchment area would be
analyzed, the Local Natural Resource Management Group (Junta Vecinal para
la Conservaci6n de Recursos Naturales - JVCRN) would be established, and a
physical plan prepared for the catchment area by UCTAP or consultants under
its control. The catchment area planning will begin with a basic natural
resource inventory and diagnostic study of existing, incipient and potential
problems. The Action Plan will be presented to the group of producers in the
catchment area and approved by them. The plan would provide a statement of
priorities and goals and a chronogram of activities. Technical assistance
would be provided to organized groups of producers to carry out activities of
common interest. Planning of the individual farm or holding would be carried
out by the technician directly with the farmer. Technical assistance would be
provided directly to the producer in the implementation of the farm-level plan.
(b)   In the second phase, the plan would be approved by the local office of CICAR
and then by the Operations Committee of the UCTAP.
(c)   In the third phase, financial resources would be made available to the JVCRN
or its individual producers, up to 50% of the total investment defined under
the plan; disbursements would be contingent upon certificates of work
completed, signed by CICAR or the private sector provider of technical
assistance.



- 79 -                              Annex 6
Technical Assistance and Extension
6.    The institutions involved are CRAE, CICAR, cooperatives, consultants (as technical
assistance providers), and municipal authorities. UCTAP will be responsible for
coordination and organization.
7.    The operation of the FOCORN would be governed by a set of Regulations. A draft
of the Operating Manual of the FOCORN, and of the model contract to be entered into by
the producers and UCTAP, would be agreed with the Bank. Resources would be provided
on a non-reimbursable basis.
8.    The financial resources of the FOCORN would be made available to individuals and
to groups of producers. At the individual level, resources would be used for:
(a)   the rehabilitation of land; establishment of contours, terraces, bunds, etc.; and
the application of lime;
(b)   the establishment of permanent crops;
(c)   the establishment of temporary crops (e.g., summer and winter green manure
crops); and
(d)   soil analysis.
At the collective level, groups which would include a minimum of five producers with a
COR-approved plan of action would receive resources for:
(a)   the protection of water sources and community water supplies;
(b)   the establishment of toxic material disposal sites;
(c)   the establishment of water control structures; and
(d)   the acquisition of special implements and machinery (e.g., lime distributors).
9.    The Action Plan would be derived from the overall plan for the catchment area, and
each producer must be a participant in a JVCRN in order to have access to the FOCORN.
The producer would make a sworn declaration concerning his property, assets and value of
production. The resource conservation plan would define the measures to be adopted, the
specific investments to be made and their phasing. The target farm group of the project area
is shown in Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2.



- 80 -                                      Annex 6
Tables 1 & 2
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Target Farm Group in Project Area
OWN         FARM AREA    NUMBER
No.                FARM TYPE                    AREA        MECHANIZATION       (ha.)         OF
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  FA R M S
1     Smalt-scaLe agriculture             Center-North           No           10 - 15        4750
2     Small-scale agricutture/dairy       Center-South           No           10 - 15          250
3     Smalt-scale agriculture             South-East             No           10 - 15          500
4     Medium-scaLe agriculture/dairy                            Yes           30 - 50          200
5     Medium-scale agriculture                                   No           30 - 50         1700
6     Medium-scale agriculture                                  Yes           30 - 50          300
7     Transition                                                Yes          200 - 300         200
Table 2: FOCORN - Incorporation of Farms by Type
FARM TYPE                                           YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION
l  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    1__   _ _      1          2         3          4         5
1. Small-scale agriculture              ANNUAL           950        950       950        950       950
Center-North                      TOTAL           950      1,900      2,850      3,800    4,750
2. Small-scale agriculture/dairy        ANNUAL            50         50         50        50        50
Center-South                      TOTAL             50       100        150        200       250
3. Smalt-scale agriculture              ANNUAL           100        100        100       100       100
South-East                        TOTAL            100       200        300        400       500
4. Mediuzn-scate agriculture/dairy      ANNUAL           V40         40        40         40        40
TOTAL            40         80        120        160       200
5. Medium-scale agriculture             ANNUAL            50         50        100       100         0
(without mechanization)           TOTAL             50       100        200        300       300
6. Medium-scale agriculture             ANNUAL           200        250       350        400       500
(with own mechanization)          TOTAL           200        450        800      1,200    1,700
7. Transition                           ANNUAL            50         50        50         50         0
TOTAL            50        100        200       200       200
TOTAL                                      1,440      2,930     4,570      6,260    7,900



- 81 -                       Annex 7
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing



PARAGWAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
USS                                USS                            X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign            Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
A . Agricultural Development
1. Natural Resource Dev & Pr    10249.4    3389.1   13638.5          10249.4   3389.1  13638.5           24.8       18.9
2. Forestry & Envirornment        11490.6    1107.6   12598.2        11490.6   1107.6  12598.2            8.8       17.5
3. TrainIng, Social Org & TA       4288.8    2276.2    6565.0         4288.8   2276.2   6565.0           34.7        9.1
Sub-Total                             26028.8    6772.9   32801.7        26028.8   67m7.9  32801.7            20.6      45.6
B . Social Development
1. Indigenous Comnunities          2845.4      356.2    3201.6        2845.4    356.2   3201.6           11.1        4.4
C . Infrastructure
1. Rural Roads                     6391.7    6472.2   12863.9        6391.7   6472.2  12863.9            50.3       17.9                          00
D . Institutional Development
1. UCTAP                           3386.6      562.8    3949.4        3386.6    562.8   3949.4           14.3        5.5
2. CRAE/CICAR                       510.3       99.1      609.4        510.3     99.1    609.4           16.3        0.8
3. CAM                             1175.1      270.9    1446.0        1175.1    270.9   1446.0           18.7        2.0
Sub-Total                              5071.9      932.9    6004.8        5071.9    932.9   6004.8            15.5       8.3
E . On-Farm Investment                8570.0    8570.0   17140.0         8570.0   8570.0  17140.0           50.0       23.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                  48907.8   23104.2   72012.0        48907.8  23104.2  72012.0            32.1     100.0
Physical Contingencies              1099.4    1182.5    2281.9         1099.4   1182.5   2281.9           51.8        3.2
Price ContingencIes                 3418.6    1387.8    4806.5         3418.6   1387.8   4806.5           28.9        6.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  53425.8   25674.6   79100.4        53425.8  25674.6  79100.4           32.5      109.8
===-----------========= =-^=        ==z===s=Zws=s= n==ns             = ==
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 12/3/1993 10:28



PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESCURCES NAMAGENENT PROJECT
Summry Account by Project Coponent
USS
Natural Forestry  Training  Indigeno                                                                   Physicat         Price
Resource     &        sociatl   us                                            On-Farm                 Contingencies    Contingencies
Dev &  Environm   org &  Commuit   Rural                CRAE/CIC           Ivestm                 ---------------------------------
Pr       ent       TA        ies     Roads    UCTAP       AR       CAH       nt        Total        X    Amount      X  Amnount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Infrastructure                  335.5    820.0    280.0    118.5  10926.0         70.0       9.0      0.0       0.0   12559.0      10.0   1255.9   10.0   1259.2
S. Land Acquisition                  0.0   7200.0        0.0   1643.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    8843.0       0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0
C. EquIpment                       1030.6    456.1    448.0    234.6   1009.2    220.0         71.6    191.7       0.0    3661.8      10.0    366.2    7.7    283.0
D. Training                         999.5    246.0   1431.0       16.5      0.0    342.4    114.8    152.8         0.0    3303.0       4.6    152.8    7.9    260.1
E. Studies/Research                2232.5    315.9      35.0      0.0    600.7        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    3184.1       5.0    159.2    8.0    253.5
F. Technical Assistance           2884.3    109.5   1179.3    260.0         0.0    316.0       0.0    170.0        0.0    4919.1       5.0    246.0   12.3    606.1
G. On-Farm Investment                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  17140.0   17140.0        0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             7482.4   9147.5   3373.3   2272.6  12535.9    948.4    195.4    514.5  17140.0   53610.0            4.1   2180.1    5.0   2661.9
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnet                       5363.0   2991.4   2823.6    682.5    328.0   2781.0    396.0    877.5           0.0   16243.0       0.0       0.0   11.6   1886.4
B. Materials/Supplies               400.0    119.8    117.5       95.6      0.0       0.0       0.0      18.0      0.0     750.9       5.0      37.5   11.3      84.8
C. Maintenance
1. Vehicles                       243.0    309.0       78.5    107.9       0.0    130.0       18.0     36.0       0.0     922.4       5.0      46.1   12.4    114.4
2. Heavy Equipment                116.1      0.0      66.0      18.5       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     200.6       2.1       4.2   11.9      23.8
3. Equipment                         6.5      8.0    106.1       24.5       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      145.1      4.8       6.9   12.6      18.3
4. Buitdings                        27.5     22.5       0.0       0.0       0.0     90.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      140.0      5.0       7.0   12.0      16.7
Sub-total                          393.1    339.5    250.6    150.9        0.0    220.0       18.0     36.0       0.0    1408.1       4.6      64.3   12.3    173.4
D. 1Iscellaneous                      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS             6156.1   3450.7   3191.7    929.0    328.0   3001.0    414.0    931.5            0.0   18402.0       0.6    101.8   11.7   2144.6
Total BASELINE COSTS              13638.5  12598.2   6565.0   3201.6  12863.9   3949.4    609.4   1446.0  17140.0  72012.0             3.2   2281.9    6.7   4806.5
Physical Contingencies            475.9    171.8    223.5       61.5   1223.6      72.9      14.7     38.0       0.0    2281.9
Price Contingencies              1504.4    529.2    645.8    159.6   1342.5    422.6         59.6    142.8       0.0    4806.5       4.2    203.9
Total PROJECT COSTS               15618.9  13299.2   7434.3   3422.6  15429.9   4444.9    683.7   1626.8  17140.0  79100.4             3.1   2485.9    6.1   4806.5
Taxes                             746.5    398.8    347.9    112.5   2766.6    130.2         21.2     38.0       0.0    4561.8       7.9    360.8
Foreign Exchange                 3922.6   1278.0   2591.0    419.7   7822.7    646.1    113.2    311.4   8570.0  25674.6             5.0   1285.4
Values SCaled by 1000.0  12/3/1993  10:29



PARA.MY
NATURAL RtESOUCES MANAGEENT PROJECT
Suu mry Accounts Cost Su _ ry
US$                               USS                           X Totat
------------------------------    ---------------------------  X Foreign          Base
Locat   Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Infrastructure                   6558.7    6000.3   12559.0        6558.7   6000.3  12559.0          47.8       17.4
B. Land Acquisition                 843.0         0.0    8843.0       8843.0      0.0   8843.0           0.0       12.3
C. Equipent                          296.3    3365.5    3661.8         296.3   3365.5   3661.8          91.9        5.1
D. Training                         1231.4    2071.6    3303.0        1231.4   2071.6   3303.0          62.7        4.6
E. Studies/Research                 2540.0      644.1    3184.1       2540.0    644.1   3184.1          20.2        4.4
F. Technical Assistance             3459.2    1459.9    4919.1        3459.2   1459.9   4919.1          29.7       6.8                                               00
G. On-Farm Inresteent               8570.0    8570.0   17140.0        8570.0   8570.0  17140.0          50.0       23.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             31498.6   22111.4   53610.0       31498.6  22111.4  53610.0          41.2       74.4
tl RECURRENT COSTS
A. Persomel                        16243.0        0.0   16243.0      16243.0      0.0  16243.0           0.0       22.6
B. Naterials/Supplies                373.5      377.4     750.9        373.5    377.4    750.9          50.3        1.0
C. Maintenance
1. Vehicles                       465.1     457.3      922.4        465.1    457.3    922.4          49.6        1.3
2. Heavy Equipment                106.1      94.5      200.6        106.1     94.5    200.6          47.1        0.3
3. Equip.ent                       96.2       48.9     145.1         96.2     48.9    145.1          33.7        0.2
4. Buitdings                      125.2       14.8     140.0        125.2     14.8    140.0          10.6        0.2
Sub-Totat                            792.7      615.4    1408.1        792.7   615.4   1408.1           43.7        2.0
0. MisceLlaneous                       0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0
Totat RECURRENT COSTS              17409.2      992.8   18402.0      17409.2    992.8  18402.0           5.4       25.6
TotaL BASELINE COSTS               48907.8   23104.2   72012.0       48907.8  23104.2  72012.0           0.0      100.0
Physicat Contingencies           1099.4    1182.5    2281.9        1099.4   1182.5   2281.9          51.8       3.2
Price Contingencies              3418.6    1387.8    4806.5        3418.6   1387.8   4806.5          28.9        6.7
TotaL PROJECTS COSTS               53425.8  25674.6   79100.4        53425.8  25674.6  79100.4          32.5      109.8
_______________________________________ .....          mas......... wza. .......................................... ______...........____.___________ ..........................=.... _._=._ZX ....... _
VaLues Scaled by 1000.0 -   12/3/1993  10:29



PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                 Totals Including Contingencies
USS                                                             USS
01       02        03        04       05    TotaL            01        02       03        04        05    Total
===2 ============ ========= ====x==    ==  =                              --== ==============5==========
A. Agricultural Develop ent
1. Natural Resource Dev & Pr       4305.6   2687.0   2689.5   2961.7   2975.1  15618.9          4305.6   2687.0   2689.5   2961.7   2975.1  15618.9
2. Forestry & Envirorment          2046.6   3196.1   2795.3   2689.0   2572.1  13299.2          2046.6   3196.1   2795.3   2689.0   2572.1  13299.2
3. Training, Social Org & TA       2826.7   1212.1   1207.3   1187.4   1000.8   7434.3          2826.7   1212.1   1207.3   1187.4   1000.8   7434.3
Sub-Total                              9178.9   7095.3   6692.1   6838.0   6548.0  36352.4           9178.9   7095.3   6692.1   6838.0   6548.0  36352.4
00
B. Social Development                                                                                                                                                 cn
1. Indigenous ComJunities          1076.8   1499.5    324.8    282.5    239.0   3422.6          1076.8   1499.5    324.8    282.5    239.0   3422.6
C. Infrastructure
1. RuraL Roads                      746.2   6575.2   8014.5       94.1       0.0  15429.9        746.2   6575.2   8014.5       94.1       0.0  15429.9
D. Institutional Development
1. UCTAP                           1251.5    810.7    768.2    797.7    816.7   4444.9          1251.5    810.7    768.2    797.7    816.7   4444.9
2. CRAE/CICAR                       266.3    103.2    106.4    109.7        98.2    683.7         266.3    103.2    106.4    109.7       98.2    683.7
3. CAH                              639.3    235.7    243.0    250.5    258.3   1626.8           639.3    235.7    243.0    250.5    258.3   1626.8
Sub-Total                              2157.1   1149.6   1117.6   1157.9   1173.2   6755.4           2157.1   1149.6   1117.6   1157.9   1173.2   6755.4
E. On-Farm Investment                 3428.0   3428.0   3428.0   3428.0   3428.0  17140.0           3428.0   3428.0   3428.0   3428.0   3428.0  17140.0
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  16587.0  19747.6  19576.9  11800.6  11388.2  79100.4          16587.0  19747.6  19576.9  11800.6  11388.2  79100.4
----- ---------        ==- ======           ===  ==:==u    ===gs=========
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/3/1993 10:29



- 86 -                                          Annex 7
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
uss
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                            Total
01       02       03       04       05    US#     USS
=ZxUgUZ3ZUZsZ3u33Z=XZ3ZUUSU3U33S33aznu3u3z3-s uKZsWuz3zuzz3xz3u
A. Agricultural Development
1. Natural Resource Dev & Pr     3897.8   2416.0   2358.1   2514.8   2451.8  13638.5  13638.5
2. Forestry & Environment        1856.8  3045.6  2680.8  2568.3   2446.7  12598.2  12598.2
3. Training, SociaL Org & TA     2551.5   1099.5  1063.5   1015.6   834.9  6565.0  6565.0
Sub-total                           8306.1   6561.1   6102.4  6098.7   5733.4  32801.7  32801.7
B. Social Development
1. Indigenous Comunmities        1026.3  1455.1    282.6    238.9    198.7  3201.6  3201.6
C. Infrastructure
1. Rural Roads                    682.7  5545.0  6554.2       82.0       0.0  12863.9  12863.9
D. Institutional Development
1. UCTAP                         1150.6   741.6   683.8   689.0    684.4  3949.4  3949.4
2. CRAE/CICAR                     242.2     94.8     94.8     94.8      82.8    609.4    609.4
3. CAN                            580.8    216.3    216.3    216.3    216.3   1446.0   1446.0
Sub-total                           1973.6   1052.7   994.9   1000.1    983.5  6004.8  6004.8
E. On-Farm Investment              3428.0   3428.0   3428.0   3428.0   3428.0  17140.0  17140.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               15416.7  18041.9  17362.1  10847.7  10343.6  72012.0  72012.0
Physical Contingencies            604.2    718.2    759.2    108.5      91.8   2281.9   2281.9
Price Contingencies               566.1    987.6   1455.6    844.3    952.8   4806.5   4806.5
------.---.-------------------.. -- -----.- -..-..-.----. ---- . 
TotaL PROJECT COSTS                16587.0  19747.6  19576.9  11800.6  11388.2  79100.4  79100.4
==ZU=MsaX     3=UsZE ZSZZ               --ss=-- ===s SSZx====z======z=
Taxes                             807.0   1677.8   1636.7   230.5    209.7  4561.8  4561.8
Foreign Exchange                 6678.1   6496.1   7340.0   2687.2   2473.1  25674.6  25674.6
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 12/3/1993 10:29



PARAGLUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
US$
IBRD             GOVT          Producers        Government         Total                  Local
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    For.    (Exc.   Duties
Amount    X      Amount     X     Amount    X       Amount    X      Amount    X       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. Land Acquisition                 0.0     0.0  8843.0   100.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  8843.0    11.2        0.0  8843.0       0.0
B. Infrastructure               11908.5   79.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0  3165.6   21.0  15074.1    19.1   7213.6  4694.9  3165.6
C. Production Investment         4998.0    70.0      0.0     0.0   2142.0   30.0        0.0     0.0   7140.0     9.0   3570.0  3570.0        0.0           -a
D. Conservation Investment       5000.0   50.0       0.0      0.0   5000.0   50.0       0.0     0.0  10000.0    12.6  5000.0  5000.0         0.0
E. Equipment                     4111.1    95.4      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    199.9    4.6  4311.0       5.5   3966.1    145.0    199.9
F. Training                      3536.6   95.2       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    179.3    4.8   3715.9      4.7   2326.9  1209.7    179.3
G. Studies/research              3418.6   95.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    178.2     5.0  3596.8      4.5    732.2  2686.4    178.2
H. Technical Assistance          5497.3   95.3       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    273.8    4.7  5771.1       7.3   1709.3  3788.0    273.8
I. Personnel                    11512.2   63.5  6617.2    36.5         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  18129.4   22.9       0.0  18129.4       0.0
J. Materials/supplies               0.0     0.0   685.2   78.5         0.0     0.0    188.1    21.5    873.3     1.1    438.9   246.3    188.1
K. Maintenance                      0.0     0.0   1268.8    77.1       0.0     0.0    376.9   22.9   1645.7    2.1    717.7   551.2    376.9
Total Disbursement               49982.3    63.2  17414.3    22.0   7142.0    9.0   4561.8    5.8  79100.4   100.0  25674.6 48864.0  4561.8
=============s===.============.=======================_==-==========
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/3/1993 10:29
-4



PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Components
uSS
IBRD              GOVT           Producers         Goverrment           Total                  Local
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    For.    (Excl.   Duties
Amount     X      Amount      X     Amount      X      Amount     X      Amount      X      Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. Natural Resource Dev *         11966.1    76.6   2906.3    18.6         0.0      0.0    746.5      4.8  15618.9    19.7   3922.6  10949.7    746.5
B. Forestry & Environuent          4071.2    30.6   8829.2    66.4         0.0      0.0    398.8      3.0  13299.2    16.8   1278.0  11622.5    398.8
C. Training, Social Org *          5596.7    75.3   1489.7    20.0         0.0      0.0    347.9      4.7   7434.3      9.4   2591.0   U495.4    347.9             x
D. Indigenous Comsunities          1165.5    34.1   2144.6    62.7         0.0      0.0    112.5      3.3   3422.6      4.3    419.7   2890.4    112.5            00
E. Ruwal Roads                    12532.0    81.2    131.3       0.9       0.0      0.0   2766.6    17.9  15429.9    19.5   7822.7   4840.7   2766.6
F. UCTAP                           2984.3    67.1   1330.4    29.9         0.0      0.0    130.2      2.9   444.9       5.6    646.1   3668.6    130.2
G. CRAE/CICAR                       485.2    71.0    177.2    25.9         0.0      0.0     21.2      3.1    683.7      0.9    113.2    549.2       21.2
H. CAN                             1183.2    72.7    405.6    24.9         0.0      0.0     38.0      2.3   1626.8      2.1    311.4   1277.5       38.0
1. On-Farm Investment              9998.0    58.3        0.0     0.0   7142.0    41.7        0.0      0.0  17140.0    21.7   8570.0   8570.0         0.0
Total Disbursement                 49982.3    63.2  17414.3    22.0   7142.0         9.0   4561.8      5.8  79100.4   100.0  25674.6  48864.0   4561.8
Values Sca=edby1= =S=S31=91==S==x=S=S==s=S====s====SS Sun                                            -=-2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 1213/1993 10:29
><



- 89 -                              Annex 8
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule 1'
Disbursement                Cumulative
FY                          (US$ million)              (US$ million)
1995                              2.3 1'                      2.3
1996                              1.5                         3.8
1997                              7.5                        11.3
1998                              8.0                        19.3
1999                             10.0                        29.3
2000                              10.0                       39.3
2001                             10.0                        49.3
2002                              0.7                        50.0
Notes   1/ following the standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Paraguay.
2/ deposit in the Special Account.



-90-                                  Annex 8
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Years
Total
Project Element         1       2       3       4       5       6     Payments
Works
Roads & Construction        1.3    7.0     6.8                                15.1
Goods
Equipment                  2.5     0.5      1.3                                4.3
Services
Training                   2.1     0.6    0.5      0.3    0.2                  3.7
Studies & Research         2.3     0.3     0.4     0.4    0.2                  3.6
Technical Assistance       1.1      1.0    1.1    1.3       1.3                5.8
Other
Land Acquisition           0.5     2.9      1.8     1.8     1.8                8.8
FOCORN I'                  2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0               10.0
Pilot Credit                1.4     1.4     1.4     1.4     1.5                7.1
Personnel                  2.8     3.7     3.8      3.9     3.8               18.0
Operating Costs            0.5     0.5     0.5     0.6     0.6                 2.7
Total                     16.5    19.9   19.6   11.7    11.4                  79.1
Bank-financed             12.5   12.0   12.9    6.5         6.1               50.0
I/ including producers' contributions



- 91-                                                      Annex 9
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Monitorable Actions
I    Target date   for                  PhysicaL Targets (end year)
Co  onent                                           l1                                 ll
initiation   colion             1     12 1           3    j    4      _  5
1.       Agricultural Development
1.1      Joint Bank/Government review of           March           June
the agro-ecological zoning                1994           1994
analysis and legal/policy
instruments
1.2      Selection of critical catchment                                           50
areas
1.2.1    Design of detailed management                                             25        25
pLans
1.3      Agricultural research -                                                   16        30         30
implementation of programs
1.4      Agro-forestry research -                                                 100       200        300       200
establishment of research
plots, ha.
1.5      Forestry research
1.5.1    Establishment of germpLasm bank            June        December
1995          1997
1.5.2    Establishment of arboretuin                June         December
1995          1998
1.6      Environmental control
1.6.1    EstabLishment of new control                                                          3
posts
1.6.2    Strengthening of existing                                                             5
control posts
1.6.3    Production  of regulations and                         December
procedures manual                                        1995
1.7      Protected areas
1.7.1    Complete acquisition of Land                              _                        25%        25%       25%       25%
for the San Rafael nationaL
park.
1.7.2    Complete studies for new                                December
national parks                                           1995
1.7.3    ImpLementation of management                            December
plan for Kirily reserve and                              1996
Yacuy and Nacunday protection
areas                                               I                                             I          I
1/    Based on the pLanned date of Loan Effectiveness of August, 1994, Project Year 1 would coincide with
calendar year 1995.



- 92 -                                                   Annex 9
Target date for                 Physica[  Targets (end year)
Coopornent                           initiation T coJpLetion        1   T    2          3         4        5
1.8      Natural Resources Conservation
Fund
1.8.1    Number of producers assisted                                         500    1,000    1,500    2,000    3,000
(cumutative)                                                                                                      l
2.       Indigenous Communities
2.1.1    Acquisition of (and                                 Dec. 1998
2.1.2    ReguLarization of titles                            Dec. 1998
2.1.3    Number of families reached
(a)   with agricuttural support                                            250       500       750    1,000    1,285
(cumulative)
(b)   with health & education support                                      250       500       750    1,000    1,285
(cumulative)
3.       RuraL Roads
3.1      Design
3.1.1    Selection of consultants             Sept. 1994    Dec. 1994
3.1.2   Award of contract                                    Jan. 1995
3.1.3    CompLetion of design                                June 1995
3.2      Road building
3.2.1    Selection of contractor (s)           Jan. 1995    Mar. 1995
3.2.2    Award of contract (s)                               June 1995
3.2.3    Commencement of work                 Sept. 1995
3.2.4    Completion of work                                  Dec. 1997
3.3      Acquisition of machinery for                        Dec. 1997
road maintenance
4.       InstitutionaL Developmient
4.1      EstabLishment of                                    Aug. 1994
UCTAP/CICAR/CRAE
4.2      Entry into effect of convenios                      Aug. 1994
5.       Pilot Agricultural Credit
5.1      Number of producers assisted                                         500    1,000    2,000    3,500    5,500
(cumutative)



- 93 -                              Annex 10
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    The proposed project would require the close cooperation of a large number of
entities, including several new bodies to be created to achieve a decentralization of project
implementation. Bank supervision will be based upon close and continuous communication
with the UCTAP. In each of the first and second years of the project, four supervision
missions would be made. It is expected that once the project is fully functioning, two
supervision missions per year would be required. There would be two mid-term reviews.
Supervision will require considerable technical input. Close cooperation would be
maintained with the project implementation liaison staff of the Bank's resident facilitating
office in Asunci6n.
2.    The principal staff involved with supervision would be:
(a)   Task Manager
(b)   Institutional Development Specialist
(c)   Agricultural and Forestry Research Specialist
(d)   Natural Resources Conservation/Land Use Specialist
(e)   Indigenous Peoples Specialist
(f)    Road Engineer
(g)   Credit Specialist
3.    The staffing of the supervision missions in the first two years of the project's
implementation is expected to be the following:
FY95         1.    a, b, g
2.    a,e
3.    a,b,c,d
4.    a,e,f
FY96         1.    a, b, g
2.    a,e,f
3.    a,b,c,d
4.    a,e,f



- 94 -



-95 -                               Annex 11
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario y de Conservaci6n de los Recursos Naturales de
la Regi6n de Alto Parand - Itapua Norte
Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, Asunci6n, Diciembre 1991.
Main Report, and supporting annexes, including:
(a)   Estudios de los Recursos Naturales en la Regi6n
(b)   Area Productiva
(c)   Sistemas de Producci6n y Desarrollo Productivo
(d)   Demografia y Salud
(e)   Diagn6stico de Sistema de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria
(f)    Caminos Rurales
(g)   Componente Indigena
(h)   Componente de Desarrollo para la Mujer Rural
(i)    Programa de Cooperaci6n Tecnica para el Credito y Comercializaci6n
(j)    Estimaci6n de la Demanda de Credito y una Propuesta Operativa para la
Region
(k)   Programa de Fomento para el Desarrollo de la Pequenia y Mediana Industria
2.    Environmental Assessment: Terms of Reference
3.    Environmental Assessment: Full Report
4.    COSTAB: Detailed project cost tables.
5.    Institutional Development Analysis.



- 96 -



- 97 -                             Annex 12
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment: Summary
Introduction
1.    The Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out between April-June, 1992, by a
team of four local consultants including a parks specialist, a forester, an agronomist and an
indigenous peoples specialist. The methodology presented in the Terms of Reference (TOR)
followed the guidelines of a regional environmental assessment ', which considered the
project as a whole as presented in the preparation documents, with its four sub-projects, four
programs and nine sub-programs. The methodology was unusual in that the EA was used to
verify the project document regarding its environmental and sustainable development aspects,
and to analyze to what extent the project already included these concerns.
2.    The draft EA was made available to the project preparation team, relevant
Government institutions, non-government organizations (NGOs) and other people
knowledgeable of the project area, and comments were provided to the local team.
Policy. Legal and Administrative Framework
3.    Since 1989, Paraguay has undergone enormous changes in the political, social and
economic arena. The new democratic government must face the difficult present situation
and respond to the demands of the population for better and more equitable living conditions.
A new Constitution was approved in June 1992, which includes mandatory payment prior to
land expropriation. In addition, the forest law, which in the past regulated almost all aspects
regarding natural resources, is under revision, and a series of draft laws for the protection of
natural resources are at different stages of review by the legislative bodies. The new
Constitution recognizes community property, participation, education and assistance as being
rights of indigenous peoples. In addition, a new law has been approved which changes the
former dependent legal status of women; this will improve their role in the socio-economic
process.
4.    The whole legal framework for natural resource management (NRM) is extremely
fluid at present, and regulations and enforcement have been traditionally weak.
Improvements are expected to be slow, given the young institutions which are in charge of
NRM. The Government of Paraguay (GOP) has adopted a policy of decentralization, which
implies operational and some budgetary independence for the regional divisions of central
government institutions. However, their presence in the interior of the country is limited, at
best, and plagued by the remnant of historical problems. Within that framework, the EA
1.   IBRD Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Vol 1, pp. 12-16.



- 98 -                               Annex 12
was adjusted to set realistic goals and to consider the project itself as part of a process of
awareness building, both for the project target groups and for the government institutions
involved.
5.    Institutional arrangements for the EA work included the contracting of local
consultants to prepare the document, in lieu of its preparation directly by the Sub-secretariat
of Natural Resources and the Environment (SSRNMA) of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAG), which reviewed the draft and approved the final version.
Project Background and Description
6.    The project is situated between 240 and 270 latitude south and between 540 30" and
550 20" longitude west. The project area covers 20,000 km2, or 5% of the total land area of
Paraguay. It includes the Departments of ItapCia (norte) and Alto Parana, and has borders in
the east with Brazil and Argentina and in the west and north with the Departments of
Caaguazu, Caazapa and Canindeyui.
7.    Forests, savannahs, lowlands and brush are the main natural vegetation of the area.
Of these, the forests have suffered the greatest damage and only disjointed remnants of the
original forests survive in a mainly degraded state. Deforestation rates are estimated to be of
the order of 12.5% annually. Surface waters are significantly contaminated by human wastes
and agricultural chemicals. Fauna is scarce outside the few remaining natural reserve areas.
8.    Since 1970, the expansion of the agricultural frontier and the construction of the
Itaipu hydro-electric dam have caused large-scale migration into the region. The population
of the project area is estimated at 500,000, with 75% in the Department of Alto Parana;
approximately 43 % of the population is considered as being urbanized. The accelerated
population growth is one of the major problems facing the region. In addition to internal
migration, and some new and established European colonies, there are large numbers of
Brazilian settlers.
9.    The main source of income in the region is agriculture, including forest exploitation
and animal production. Monocultures, mainly of soybeans, cotton and wheat, comprise the
bulk of the agricultural production.
10.   The state institutions have been largely unable to support the needs of the agricultural
sector in terms of extension, research, credit, and training. Services cover at most 15% of
the potential target groups. Other social services, such as education, health, sanitation and
potable water, are similarly weak.
11.   The project preparation documents present two main objectives:
(a)   to reverse the present abuse of natural resources in the area and to achieve
development of the agricultural sector in a way that is economically viable and
environmentally sustainable. The aim is to diversify production and to
integrate productive and marketing processes to favor the generation of
aggregate value and greater retention of the revenues; and



-99-                                  Annex 12
(b)   to create mechanisms for participation of the population in the project
implementation process. Without this participation, the process will be unable
to achieve economic growth or social equity. The participation of
cooperatives, municipalities and other private sector institutions will be
encouraged, in order to generate a process of participative development
management.
12.   The project has four lines of strategic action:
(a)   the integration of natural resources and productive factors into systems which
allow protection of natural resources while achieving economic production
levels. The rainfall catchment area (micro-cuenca) is the basic planning unit;
(b)   institutional strengthening of the agricultural public sector, through operational
decentralization and increased efficiency of the different services, greater
participation of the private sector, and the creation of a regional system for
protection of natural resources;
(c)    modification of the attitudes and skills of the population through training in
community organization, technical aspects of production, and marketing. A
women's program has been included, to increase their participation in the
socio-economic development process; and
(d)   strengthening of the basic infrastructure, roads, potable water and other
systems having an impact on the quality of life of the population.
13.   The project includes four main components: (a) agricultural development, which
would promote: (i) sustainable, diversified production systems and integrated natural
resource management; (ii) conservation of natural resources; (iii) technical cooperation; and
(iv) increasing the role of rural women; (b) social development, which includes: (i) support
to indigenous communities and (ii) basic sanitation; (c) infrastructure, which comprises rural
road improvement; and (d) pilot agricultural credit, designed to support investment activities
by small farmers and to develop new credit delivery techniques.
14.   Although not a stated objective, the aim of the project is to promote more sustainable
and environmentally-benign agricultural methods for the region, and to strengthen the human
and physical infrastructure needed to achieve this goal.
15.   The only component found to have specific risks of negative environmental effects
was the infrastructure sub-component for rural road improvement. The project documents
originally proposed abandoning some of the existing roads in favor of the construction of
new roads aligned to follow the watershed. The EA team considered that this would not
necessarily represent an improvement; in practice, the old roads would probably not be
abandoned by traffic or would increasingly deteriorate without maintenance, becoming even
greater sources of erosion problems. A case-by-case approach was recommended which
would examine all existing roads before deciding on new construction.



- 100 -                               Annex 12
Base-line Data
16.   In general, the deficiencies of the base-line data for the project area reflect those
existing at the national level, and the best effort was made to compile what was available.
The new IBRD-financed Land Use Rationalization Project (Ln. 3445-PA) will be extremely
helpful in providing much-needed data, which is expected to feed directly into this project.
17.   Present information on the remaining forest cover is not sufficiently detailed for work
at the level of the micro-cuenca. The soil resource evaluation used in project preparation
was based on general reconnaissance-level studies made in 1965 and 1973, which allow only
a very general characterization of the project area, particularly on the areas estimated for soil
classes II and III. The demographic data, based on the 1982 census, are only sufficient for a
very approximate characterization. The base-line data on agricultural aspects are the most
correct and up-to-date. Data on credit are very limited, and the existing guidelines for credit
use are not designed for conservation of natural resources.
18.   The lack of coordination, both intra- and inter-institutional, is a more serious
deterrent to the efficiency of public institutions than their centralization. The lack of a
regional environmental policy document to guide the activities in the project area is
considered a serious deficiency.
19.   The data base for the women's program was taken from national-level data, which is
incomplete at best and has little gender segregation. Through more interaction with some
women's groups in the project area, more data could be assembled by the project.
20.   The indigenous program has an adequate data base but it needs to be improved by the
addition of a map showing population distribution by ethnic group which will facilitate the
resolution of the whole land tenure and reserve issue. There are several NGOs which have
more precise data. Also, data on the status of negotiations by the different ethnic groups
regarding their claims to land were not available, and were provided by the EA team.
Analysis of Environmental Impact
21.   The conservation practices proposed in the natural resource management sub-program
were analyzed according to their environmental impact for the different types of farm
included in the project. All practices were found to have beneficial effects, as compared to
the present practices. The largest positive effect were for medium and large farms.
22.   The estimated 7,900 farms to be included in the project represent 21% of the farms
but only about 12% of the land in the project area; therefore about 88% of the land falls
outside the area of action of this sub-program.
23.   The agricultural research sub-program, as a separate program from forestry research,
would be less effective than if their activities were combined. For example, research in
agro-forestry and silvo-pastoral systems, which would be very relevant to project objectives,
was not originally included in the activities.



- 101 -                              Annex 12
24.   The sub-program of environmental supervision appears to be in charge of extension,
promotion, supervision, and also of enforcement of environmental provisions. In addition to
the risk of conflict with national institutions already in charge of enforcement, the
effectiveness of the sub-program might suffer if it had to conduct supervisory and
enforcement functions simultaneously.
25.   The objectives established for the units of operation and support to the project
(CRAE, CICARSE and UCTAP) are correct, but it is very important to avoid the creation of
conflicts between those units and the national institutions. Conflicts such as those originated
by the absence of a sole authority in the area of enforcement, and duplication of functions
between national institutions and those of the project, may result in the detriment of the
environmental benefits of the rest of the project activities.
26.   An excellent feature of the indigenous communities sub-program is that it proposes
delimitation of the indigenous lands prior to allocation for any other uses. However, all of
the lands considered for increases of reserve areas or for relocation are presently under
private ownership, and the new Constitution mandates compensatory payments to be
deposited prior to expropriation of lands. Although the fiscal land value may be nominal,
this still represents a new cost that the project may not be able to absorb.
27.   The indigenous agricultural production support sub-program appears to require further
detail in assessment of the differences between ethnic groups and of what these represent in
terms of project activities. The proposed activities may suit some of the ethnic groups and
not others, as in the case of dairy production.
28.   The rural roads improvement component originally contemplated abandoning some of
the existing roads in favor of new construction following the watershed. The EA team found
that this would not necessarily represent an improvement; the old roads would not necessarily
be abandoned by traffic, or would increasingly deteriorate without maintenance, becoming
even greater erosion sources.
Mitigation Plan
29.   The project has been in part designed to mitigate the environmental impacts of the
present production models, which are causing irreversible damage to the natural resource
base. Therefore only adjustments to the proposed activities, aimed at increasing their
positive environmental impacts, are recommended. Because of the relatively small coverage
of the project, any actions contemplated to increase its impact in the future should be
considered.
30.   Within the sub-program of natural resource management, some activities of
comprehensive impact are recommended, such as the declaration of all forest in the project
area as Protective Forests. This status is contemplated under present legislation, and does
not preclude the use of trees for different purposes, only the removal of the forest. The
inclusion of the costs of conservation practices proposed by the project into the credit
program and the Natural Resource Conservation Fund (FOCORN) is also recommended.



- 102 -                               Annex 12
31.   In the sub-program of production research, several activities which emphasize
diversification and agro-forestry alternatives are recommended for inclusion. Forestry
research should emphasize wind-breaks, energy wood-lots, and multiple-use riparian forests,
and should be conducted in buffer zones and other suitable locations outside of protected
areas. The sub-program of forestry research has been modified to include agronomists and
professionals from other areas, and to be conducted in the research centers cooperating with
the project. This should ensure a more multi-disciplinary approach needed for these types of
research.
32.   The environmental supervision activities should be framed in norms and procedures
established by the national institutions in charge, and should include the municipal authorities
as much as possible. CRAE might include a unit for environmental monitoring, and could
also be in charge of promotion and extension for the project, but not of enforcement, which
should be left to the national institutions already charged with that function, in accordance
with existing laws and future regulations.
33.   The sub-program for support to protected areas should elaborate management plans
for protected areas and forests and for buffer zones included in the project. The plans should
be explicit as to the participation of the indigenous communities. The Scientific Monument
Moises S. Bertoni could be included in the protected area network covered by the project.
34.   The sub-program for agro-industrial promotion should incorporate environmental
considerations in the design of new plants and projects, as well as incorporating
environmental assessment of existing industries in the project area for their improvement.
Similarly, the sub-program for marketing should include the strict regulation of chemicals
used and sold, and the appropriate disposal of toxic residues and containers.
35.   The sub-programs for strengthening of cooperatives, municipal administrations and
non-formal groups should include environmental education and sanitation among the activities
promoted.
36.   The rural women's support program should ensure sufficient autonomy from the rest
of the project so that the committees may choose their own environmental concerns, often
different from those of men. An area of particular interest should be the traditional medicine
practices and the extraordinary knowledge of native herb species; this area should interact
with the agricultural and agro-forestry research programs, and with the bio-diversity
inventories.
37.   The program for indigenous land titling should precede delimitation of any other land
use in the project area. It should be initiated by mapping the entire indigenous population in
the project area by ethnic group, including all land presently controlled or owned by
indigenous people and the projected expansions. Following this, a "no-innovation" measure
for the expansion areas should be solicited from the GOP, to protect indigenous people from
expulsion by landowners or invasion. There are several requisites to be complied with by
the indigenous communities to obtain titles to the land, which are listed in the EA document.
The EA team recommended contracting the services of those NGOs which are knowledgeable
and experienced in those issues.



- 103 -                             Annex 12
38.   In view of the article of the new Constitution which specifies prior compensation for
expropriation of lands, the mechanisms and sources of funds for land acquisition must be
clearly identified. Although most lands proposed for indigenous expansion are privately
held, it may not be necessary to purchase all of them; negotiations for donations and other
conciliatory measures should be attempted.
39.   In the production support component, all actions should be planned on the basis of the
traditional activities of the different ethnic groups, and following their opinion and initiative.
For example, dairy production, which the project proposes as a blanket activity for all
indigenous groups, may be appropriate for the Ava Guarani but the Mbya may prefer to
strengthen their traditional chicken and pig production activities.
40.   The rural road improvement sub-program was modified in favor of a case-by-case
approach, where the conditions of each road would be evaluated and appropriate measures
for improvement, or for safe closure and retracing, would be taken. If an existing road is to
be abandoned in favor of construction of a new one, provisions should be made to ensure
that the old road does not continue to be an erosion hazard. Following IBRD guidelines, the
project must present an environmental assessment or declaration for each case. The Ministry
of Public Works (MOPC) has recently adopted a set of guidelines which are in agreement
with IBRD procedures. In addition, the MOPC, with the IBRD Environmental Division, is
planning an EA course for road construction in the near future.
Management Responsibilities
41.   The MAG will have overall responsibility for project implementation, through
DINCAP. By executive decree, the Unit of Technical and Administrative Coordination of
the Project (UCTAP) will be created as an executive unit, based in the project area. The
UCTAP will be supported by the CRAE (Regional Environmental Center for the East) and
the CICAR/SE (Rural Research and Training Center of the South East). The UCTAP will
consist of a National Coordinator, four Area Supervisors and support staff.
42.   The functions of the UCTAP will be: (a) to program, organize and control the
technical activities of the project; (b) to coordinate other institutions of the private and public
sectors concerned with implementing the project; (c) to administer expenditures of the
FOCORN; (d) to coordinate technical staff through the Area Supervisors; (e) to maintain all
records in line with ONCAP systems and methods; (f) to coordinate with the central
authorities the implementation of project investments; (g) to apply the criteria for use of
resources of the FOCORN; (h) to coordinate the preparation of the annual operating plans
(POAs) and progress reports; and (i) to submit for approval the proposals of public and
private sector participants.
Monitoring
43.   Chronograms of the main activities of the project will be submitted for approval
during appraisal. These will form the basis for the schedule of monitorable actions and the
supervision plan, including the mid-term review. Project monitoring and evaluation are to be
the responsibility of the Technical Department (Gabinete Tecnico - GT) of MAG.



- 104 -                              Annex 12
44.   A series of environmental parameters has been included in the TORs which are
presented in the EA document. Environmental indicators based on water quality and soil
fertility and stability will be helpful in determining the relative success of the project.
45.   These parameters, and similar process-end parameters based on economic measures,
may be useful in evaluating success or failure, but may not provide the information needed
as feed-back to modify the project activities. A carefully elaborated monitoring plan is
particularly needed in this project, where there is practically no historical baseline for
comparison in any of the activities undertaken.
46.   The EA team recommended that the MAG be assisted in the preparation of the
guidelines and TORs for the monitoring plan. A suggested appropriate source for this
assistance is the monitoring unit from the Ministry of Planning of the State of Parana, Brazil
(IPARDES) which monitors the Parand Rural project. This unit has twelve years of
accumulated experience in the same agro-ecological region, and the IBRD-financed Parana
Rural project served as a model for the design of this project.



- 105 -                              Annex 13
PARAGUAY
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC              Association of Cooperatives
(Asociaci6n de Cooperativas)
AUCA            Agricultural Credit Users' Association
(Asociaci6n de Usuarios de Credito Agricola)
BCP             Central Bank
(Banco Central del Paraguay)
BNF             National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Fomento)
CAH             Smallholder Credit Agency
(Credito Agricola de Habilitaci6n)
CEDEFO          Forestry Development Center
(Centro de Desarrollo Forestal)
CEM             Country Economic Memorandum
CDR             Regional Development Committee
(Consejo de Desarrollo Regional)
CF              Forestry Center
(Centro Forestal)
CFAP            Forestry Center of Alto Parand
(Centro Forestal de Alto Parana)
CGN             Comptroller-General
(Contraloria-General de la Naci6n)
CICAR           Rural Research and Training Center
(Centro de Investigaci6n y Capacitaci6n Agropecuaria Regional del Sur-
Este del Paraguay)
CONCODER    National Rural Development Coordination Council
(Consejo Nacional de Coordinaci6n para el Desarrollo Rural)
CPI             Consumer Prices Index



- 106-                               Annex 13
CRAE            Regional Environmental Center
(Centro Regional Ambiental del Este)
COR             Regional Operational Committee
(Comite Operativo Regional)
DCE             Directorate of Census and Statistics
(Direcci6n de Censo y Estadisticas Agropecuarias/MAG
DCV             Directorate of Rural Roads
(Direcci6n de Caminos Vecinales/MOPC)
DF              Forestry District
(Distrito Forestal)
DGP             Planning Directorate (of MAG)
(Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n)
DINCAP          National Directorate for Project Coordination and Administration
(Direcci6n Nacional de Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n de Proyectos)
DMA             Directorate of the Environment
(Direcci6n de Medio Ambiente/SSRNMA)
DRF             Directorate of Forest Resources
(Direcci6n de Recursos Forestales/SSRNMA)
EA              Environmental Assessment
ESW             Economic and Sector Work
ETAP            Environmental Technical Assistance Project
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP          FAO - World Bank Cooperative Program
FG              Livestock Fund
(Fondo Ganadero)
FOCORN          Natural Resources Conservation Fund
(Fondo para la Conservacion de los Recursos Naturales)
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GIS             Geographic Information System



- 107 -                             Annex 13
GOP             Government of Paraguay
GTZ             Deutsche Geselilschaft fuir Technische Zussammenarbeit
IBR             Rural Welfare Institute
(Instituto de Bienestar Rural)
ICA             Institutional Capacity Analysis
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICG             Institutional Capacity Gap
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IDC             Institutional Development Component
INDI            Paraguayan Institute for Indigenous People
(Instituto Paraguayo del Indigena)
JVCRN           Local Natural Resources Management Group
(Junta Vecinal para la Conservaci6n de Recursos Naturales)
JVL             Local Roads Committee
(Junta de Viales Locales)
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
LURP            Land Use Rationalization Project
MAG             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia)
MEC             Ministry of Education
(Ministerio de Educaci6n y Culto)
MH              Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
MOPC            Ministry of Public Works
(Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones)
MIC             Ministry of Industry and Commerce
(Ministerio de Industria y Comercio)
MSPBS           Ministry of Health and Welfare
(Ministerio de Salud Publica y Bienestar Social)



- 108-                               Annex 13
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
OED             Operations Evaluation Department
PCR             Project Completion Report
PHRD            Policy and Ilumani Resources Development Fund
PNCR            National Rural Roads Program
(Programa Nacional de Caminos Rurales)
POA             Annual Operating Plan
(Plan de Operaci6n Anual)
PPAR            Project Pertormance Audit Report
SEAG            Agricultural Extension Service
(Servicio de Extension Agricola Ganadera)
SGA             Subsidiary Grant Agreement
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
SSRNMA          Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
(Sub-Secretaria de Estado de Resursos Naturales y Medio Ambiente/MAG)
TC              Audit Board
(Tribunal de Cuentas)
TOR             Terms of Reference
UCR             Rural Roads Unit
(tJnidad de Caminos Rurales/MOPC)
UCTAP           Project Technical and Administrative Coordination Unit
(Unidad de Coordinacion Tecnica y Administrativa del Proyecto)
UNA             National University
(Universidad Nacional de Asunci6n)
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           UJnited States Agency for International Development
USDA            United States Department of Agriculture



SO   H
B O L I V I A                 -                                             :                  
|  \.    /                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A M t R I C A
7r  > ,           </ ~( C H  A' ~C  O                  ,                                                      -
BOLIVA                                            /A L T O
>P A R A G U A y 
/ NU\ A   A S U N C l 6N                                                  B    R    A    Z    I   L
I t1           X            .'
\<;nalrn NA    R   E   G  ~<  O   N                s    4 (> b   k    Xhs\
B O Q U           E R                                           CONCEPCION                     
(C HAC
,.~ ~ ~     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ R E  h        I DE NT            A J\  E S  X/     ..        2 _
BOQ.        PR.             /                                - X1^.  CONCECION \a-           /  }f- / S
'V       >     r .N   
/     s            P RE 5 IDE N TE        H A Y ES                   _                      -$ s ^S  
AV     
9   \ k                    <              '. ~~~~~~~~~~~~SAN  PE RO   CANINDEYU
PARAGUAYR    v
NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PPOII<I A.LA
AN NAIAf AIIONAL *rA"
=   1U.,,1NOUS SURFACED ROADS                   9+C EN       -y
-   U?ANOUS kLIRIRCID ROADS ,NOER C.NSTRUCU.N
-   GRAE /LARIH SURFACED ROADS
RAIL ROADS
COUNIRY REGION DIVISION
-  DEPAREA4NT BOUNDARIAS                                                   z A PA
WE IN=ENATIONAC ROUADARIES
.         -o    o    K.  r  *..Wk   
O~    o r   rn   K.XlLuDrm >    
0 P                                t)-    4( ;                                                        N         wt> 






IBRD 24201
55°                                                                   540
54~~~~5'
r-~4,,t,, 25                                                                                                                                2 5<
PARAGURAYIL
RA -  ->A> NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
26'-
-26-                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
mt  J     i  |SAN RAFAEL NATIONAL PARK
SELECTED ROADS
RNVERS
i *-~ 9 ufDEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
TA  P  U  A           -                                   . -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETRS
mhi. mw ho boo    "~podb I. Wmd 9hook, iofl -, f
A.oooow   ofro..   , fOr. o*n..i vwo I. Wm
loo Go.~. b.d.oo,no*o,r-d ow A. boood,i.. .ho.,. -o 0.
k.Hd o-    o oi     por of Thu Wfd l o  Go, oy jA4o
moo Lqo |5r .. ofy h.,ifroy or ooy  -pkoro  
CCTOBE 2719
OCTOBER 1992






IPRD 2430?
i               a            ,>    z                ~~~~~~~~A L TO 0 
25
BRAZIL
udad del Este
/ s            \ >gSa~~ ~         ~ ~~nta/                 
PARAGUAY
PROPOSED ROAD
NETWORK
_____f__ Ki  ALL WFAILtH  F L).
- --   DRYAF- OF
<r    'v5  w X    R<ao  /  S       MAIA,N RL P
F VERS
ft   <   gJ  \   \  2   < &    \      /@   :1    g                    o      PLL F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRE-ID C II 
0     10    20            jI) 1 1 -) DFARTMF0 b( 
I T A\                                                             ,
op topdn Mezaonor   C/!
27                                                     5s



