Page  1
November 18, 1996
Mr. Carlos A. Facetti
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Asunci"n, Paraguay
     Re:  PARAGUAY (Natural Resources Management Project)
          Loan No. 3708 PA - Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement) dated June
8, 1994 entered into between the Republic of Paraguay (the Borrower)
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank), as amended.
     In response to the Borrower's June 13, 1996 request to include a
new rural community pilot investment micro component within the Project
in order to finance the carrying out of subprojects for the benefit of
poor rural communities in Paraguay, we are pleased to inform you that
the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
     I.  Loan Agreement:
     1. Section 1.02 is hereby amended by:
     (a) adding the word "A" to the term "Special Account" in paragraph
"(ss)" which shall read as follows:
          "(ss) 'Special Account A' means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement;" ;
     (b) deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph "(ww)";
     (c) replacing the period at the end of paragraph "(xx)" with a
semicolon; and
     (d) adding twelve new paragraphs which shall read as follows:
          "(yy) 'Amendment Letter' means the letter from the Bank to
the Borrower dated November 18, 1996 proposing the Borrower to amend
this Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
therein, and to be countersigned by the Borrower;
          (zz)  'Cooperation Agreement' means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.01(g) (i) of this Agreement;
          (ab)  'Departments' means the Borrower's Departamentos
located within the Pilot Area;
          (ac)  'Eligible Community' means a rural community located
within the Pilot Area which meets the eligibility criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual;
          (ad)  'Operational Manual' means the manual, satisfactory to
the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower which sets forth, inter alia:
(i) the criteria for selecting the Eligible Communities; (ii) the
criteria for selecting Rural Community Pilot Investment Micro-Sub-
projects; (iii) a model Cooperation Agreement; (iv) the procedures and
terms and conditions of Pilot Subgrant Agreements; (v) the monitoring
and performance indicators for Part F of the Project; (vi) the environ-
mental criteria and guidelines to be followed in the carrying out of
Rural Community Pilot Investment Micro-Subprojects; and (vii) the terms
and conditions of the accounts to be opened in each Department as
provided in Section 3.01 (h) (iii), as such manual may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
          (ae)  'PAEU' means the Pilot Administrative and Executing Unit
referred to in Section 3.19 of this Agreement;
Page  2
          (af)  'Pilot Area' means the area within the Departments of
Caguazu, Cordillera and Caazapa, as such area may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the Bank;
          (ag)  'Pilot Subgrant' means a grant to be made with the
proceeds of the Loan to an Eligible Community for purposes of
financing up to 75% of the total cost of a Rural Community Pilot
Investment Micro-Subproject;
          (ah)  'Pilot Subgrant Agreement' means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.01 (g) (ii) of this Agreement;
          (ai)  'Rural Community Pilot Investment Micro-Subproject'
means a specific project which meets the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual, consisting, inter alia, of: (i) the
construction of small-scale irrigation schemes; (ii) the construction
of small storage facilities; (iii) the construction of seed, fruit
and vegetable processing plants; and (iv) the rehabilitation and
maintenance of feeder roads, including the acquisition of goods and
the provision of technical assistance required therefor;
          (aj)  'Special Accounts' means collectively Special Account
A and Special Account B; and
          (ak) 'Special Account B' means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.".
     2.  Section 2.02(b) is hereby amended to read as follows:
          "(b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of: (i) Parts A
through E of the Project open and maintain in Dollars a special
deposit account (the Special Account A) in BCP on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) Part F of the Project
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account B) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account A and Special Account B shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedules 5 and 8 to this Agreement,
respectively.".
     3.  Section 3.01 (a) (i) is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "(i) carry out through: (A) MAG/DINCAP, Parts A, B.2 and D of
the Project; (B) MSPBS, Part B.3 of the Project; (C) MEC, Part B.4
of the Project; (D) MOPC, Part C of the Project, with the partici-
pation of the Project Entities as indicated in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement; and (E) MAG, with the participation of the Departments (as
provided in paragraph (h) below), Part F of the Project in accordance
with the Operational Manual, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, health, education, agricultural, ecological, conser-
vation and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project;".
     4.  Three new paragraphs "(g), (h) and (i) " are added to Section
3.01 which shall read as follows:
     (g)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01(a)
(i)(E) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than twelve
months after the effective date of the Amendment Letter (as provided
in Section II of such Amendment Letter) or such later date as the
Bank shall establish, complete the carrying out of Part F of the
Project.
     (h)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a)
(i) (E) of this Agreement and for purposes of carrying out Part F.1
of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) enter into an agreement
(the Cooperation Agreement) with the corresponding Department under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set
Page  3
forth in the Operational Manual; (ii) enter into an agreement (the
Pilot Subgrant Agreement) with each Eligible Community in accordance
with the procedures and terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual; and (iii) cause each Department to open and
maintain an account in a commercial bank under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
     (i)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not amend, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Cooperation
Agreement or any provision thereof.".
     5.  Two new Sections are added to Article III which shall read as
follows:
          "Section 3.19. (a) The Borrower shall establish within the
office of the Minister of MAG, and thereafter operate and maintain
during the implementation of Part F of the Project, the PAEU with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including,
inter alia, the responsibility to assist the Borrower in the
coordination, administration and implementation of such Part of the
Project.
          (b)  The Borrower shall ensure at all times that the PAEU
is headed by a manager and assisted by staff in adequate numbers,
including an auditing and financial specialist, all with qualifica-
tions acceptable to the Bank.
          Section 3.20.  Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.10 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall every two months
during the implementation of Part F.1 of the Project, starting as
provided in paragraph (f) of Section II of the Amendment Letter,
prepare and furnish to the Bank an investment plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall include the list of  Rural Community Pilot
Investment Micro-Subprojects to be financed under such Part of the
Project during the following three months.".
     6.  Section 4.01(a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B.2, B.3, B.4, C, D and F of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for assisting in or carrying out the Project or any part
thereof; and (ii) cause INDI and CAH to maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B.1 and E of the Project,
respectively.".
     7.  The: (a) term "Special Account" referred to in Section 4.01(b)
(i) and (c)(ii) is hereby replaced by the term "Special Accounts"; and
(b) the word "was" referred to in Section 4.01(c)(ii) is hereby
replaced by the word "were".
     8.  The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to
read as set forth in annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
     9.  Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by: (a) deleting
the word "and" at the end of paragraph "(d)"; (b) replacing the period
at the end of paragraph "(e)" with a semicolon; (c) adding the word
"and" at the end of paragraph "(e)"; and (d) adding a new paragraph
"(f)" which shall read as follows:
          "(f)  payments made for expenditures under each Rural
Community Pilot Investment Micro-Subproject unless the Borrower has:
(i) entered into a Cooperation Agreement as provided in Section 3.01
(h) (i) of this Agreement; and (ii) entered into a Pilot Subgrant
Agreement as provided in Section 3.01 (h) (ii) of this Agreement.".
     10.  A new paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 1 which shall read
as follows:
Page  4
          "4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for works (including works to be financed under
Pilot Subgrants) costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; (b) contracts
for goods (including goods to be financed under Pilot Subgrants)
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment
of consulting firms costing less than $30,000 equivalent; (d) contracts
for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $15,000
equivalent; and (e) Training, Studies, and Incremental Operating Costs
as set forth in Categories (3) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.".
     11.  The first paragraph of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
          "The objectives of the Project are to: (a) establish the
institutional framework necessary to resolve the major agricultural
and natural resources problems in the Project Area; (b) obtain
relevant information and implement a system of natural resources
protection; (c) assist the Small Farmers and Eligible Communities
living in the Project Area and Pilot Area, respectively, in: (i)
creating sustainable and diversified agricultural production systems;
(ii) adopting natural resources conservation measures through appro-
priate land use planning; and (iii) improving their productivity
through the processing and marketing of agricultural products; and
(d) encourage the participation of the rural community and the
Eligible Communities living in the Project Area and Pilot Area,
respectively, in the management of natural resources.".
     12.  A new Part F is added to Schedule 2 which shall read as
follows:
          "Part F: Rural Community Pilot Investment Micro-Subprojects
          1.  Provision of Pilot Subgrants to finance the carrying out
of Rural Community Pilot Investment Micro-Subprojects by Eligible
Communities.
          2.  Provision of technical assistance to the PAEU and the
Departments in order to assist the Eligible Communities in the
preparation of Rural Community Pilot Investment Micro-Subprojects.".
     13.  Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
          "Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
          1. Works (other than works to be financed under Pilot Sub-
grants) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
          2. Goods (other than goods to be financed under Pilot Sub-
grants) estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less
than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract or per bid package, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
          3. Goods (other than goods to be financed under Pilot Sub-
grants) estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$400,000, may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quota-
tions solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
          4. Goods to be financed under Pilot Subgrants estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 per contract or per bid
Page  5
package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may be
procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
          5. Works to be financed under Pilot Subgrants estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount equivalent to $2,000,000 may be procured on the basis of
solicitation of price quotations from a list of at least three con-
tractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
          6. Works and goods to be procured for Parts A.4 and E.1 of
the Project, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $3,000 per
contract may be procured on the basis of solicitation of price quota-
tions from at least two contractors or two suppliers, as the case may
be, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.".
     14.  Paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
          "2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $15,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to
prior to Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consult-
ing firms raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $15,000 or above.".
     15.  Schedule 5 is hereby amended to read as set forth in annex
2 to this Amendment Letter.
     16.  A new Schedule 8 is added to read as set forth in annex 3
to this Amendment Letter.
          II. Effectiveness:
          1. This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts
each of which shall be an original, and shall, as provided in paragraph
2 below, not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank
shall have been furnished to the Bank:
           (a)  that the execution and delivery of this Amendment Letter
on behalf of the Borrower has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action;
          (b)  that counsel for the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank,
has furnished a legal opinion stating that this Amendment Letter has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms;
          (c)  that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the
Borrower;
          (d)  that the PAEU has been established;
          (e)  that each Department has opened an account as provided
in Section 3.01 (h) (iii) of the Loan Agreement, as provided in this
Amendment Letter; and
          (f)   that the first investment plan has been prepared as
provided in Section 3.20 of the Loan Agreement, as provided in this
Page  6
Amendment Letter.
          2.   This Amendment Letter shall enter into effect on the
date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice of its
acceptance of the evidence required by  paragraph 1 of this Section.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original
to us.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Constance Bernard
    Constance Bernard
    Acting Country Director
    Department I
    Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
/s/ Carlos A. Facetti
    Authorized Representative
Date:  November 22, 1996
ANNEX 1
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated            % of
                      (Expressed in         Expenditures
     "Category      Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works        11,900,000         79%
(2)  Goods               4,100,000         95%
(3)  Consultants'
     Services,
     Training and
     Studies
     (a)  for Parts A,  12,200,000         97%
          B, C, D and
          E.2 of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part F.2     300,000         97%
          of the Project
(4)  Subloans            5,000,000         100% of amounts
                                           disbursed under a
                                           Subloan
(5)  Subgrants           5,000,000         100% of amounts
                                           disbursed under a
                                           Subgrant
(6)  Incremental         6,500,000         100% until
     Operating                             withdrawals under
     Costs under                           this category have
     the Project                           reached an aggregate
Page  7
                                           amount of $1,750,000
                                           equivalent; 75%
                                           until withdrawals
                                           under this category
                                           have reached an
                                           aggregate amount
                                           of $3,500,000
                                           equivalent;
                                           50% until withdrawals
                                           under this category
                                           have reached an
                                           aggregate amount of
                                           $5,200,000 equivalent;
                                           and 25% thereafter
(7)  Pilot Subgrants     5,000,000         100% of amounts
                                           disbursed under a Pilot
                                           Subgrant
                        __________
     TOTAL              50,000,000".
                        ==========
ANNEX 2
                               "SCHEDULE 5
                            Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3)
(a), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts A through E of the Project;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  Parts A
through E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,250,000 in respect of the Special Account A for Parts A through
E of the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account A shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
A shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account A of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account A, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account A at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Page  8
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account A such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account A for eligible expendi-
               tures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
               Bank from the Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
               ments and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account
A, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account A:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for the Special Account A for Parts A through
E of the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts A through E of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A through E of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account A as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account A: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account A (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account A shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the  Special Account A will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
Page  9
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account A.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Con-
ditions.".
ANNEX 3
                               "SCHEDULE 8
                            Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (3)(b) and
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in respect of Part F of the Project;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part F of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,500,000 in respect of the Special Account B for Part F of the
Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account B shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
B shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account B of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account B
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account B, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account B at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
               4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account B such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account B for eligible expenditures. All such
               deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account under the respective eligible Cate-
               gories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
Page  10
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account
B, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account B:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for the Special Account B for Part F of the
Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commit-
ments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Part F of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. There-
after, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Part F
of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account B
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account B: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account B (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank
into the Special Account B shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the  Special Account B will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account B.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.".
Page  11
