Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16834
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN No. 3153-TR)
June 30, 1997
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development
Country Departnent III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Trinidadian Dollar (TT$)
US$ I 00 = TT$6 25 (May 1997)
TT$1.00 =US$0.16 (May 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA    -         UNCTAD's Automated System for Customs Data
BEIRL         -      Business Enterprise & Industrial Restructunng Loan
CARICOM       -      Canbbean Commumty
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CFTC          -      Commonwealth Fund for Techmcal Cooperation
CGCED         -      Canbbean Group for Cooperation and Economic Development
CSO           -      Central Statistical Office
EC            -      European Community
FIAS          -      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GORTT         -      Govemnent of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
ICR           -      Inplementation Completion Report
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
MOET          -      Mimstry of Industry, Enterprise and Tounsm
MOF           -      Minstry of Finance
MOPAM         -      Mimstry of Plannung and Mobilization
MOPAD         -      Muustry of Planning & Development (Same as MOPAM)
NIB           -      National Insurance Board
NIS           -      Natonal Insurance System
NGO           -      Non-Governmental Organization
OAP           -      Old Age Pension Program
PAR           -      Performance Audit Report
PCR           -      Project Completion Report
PSIP          -      Public Sector Investment Program
PSM           -      Public Sector Management
PUC           -      Public Utilities Commission
RSU           -      Restructuring Support Unit
SAL          -       Structural Adjustment Loan
SHARE         -      Feeding Program
SLC           -      Survey of Livmg Conditions
SOE Umt      -       State-Owned Enterpnse Unit (MOF)
SOE           -      Statements of Expenditure
SSU           -      Social Sectors Umt
TA            -      Technical Assistance
TAL           -      Technical Assistance Loan
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
T&T           -      Tnnidad and Tobago
T&TEC         -      Trindad and Tobago Electricity Commission
UNCTAD        -      United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
UNECLAC    -         United Nations Economic Comnussion for Latin Amenca and the
Canbbean
UWI          -       Umversity of West Indies
VTEP          -      Voluntary Termmation of Employment Plan
WASA          -     Water and Sewerage Authonty
Vice President-                    Shahid Javed Burki
Director-                         'Paul Isenmnan
DIivision Chief.                   Krishna Challa
Responsible Staffl
Task Manager:                      Rita Parnlli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3153-TR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................1i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................1ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................1
A. Introduction/Background .............................................1
B. Statement/Evaluation Objectives .......................  ..2
C. Achievement of Objectives .........................3
D. Major Factors affecting the Project ....................... ..4
E. Project Sustainaility .........................5
F. Bank Performance .........................5
G. Borrower Performance .........................6
H. Assessment of Outcome .........................7
I. Future Operations ...........................8
J. Key Lessons LeamedJReconfirmed ...........................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................                               11
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ..........................                            l 1
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................                       13
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................                                14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............... 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................................16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................................  27
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................................      28
Table 8: Project Financing ..........................................                30
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................      31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants            .......................................... 32
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .           .................................. 33
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs            .......................................... 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDIX  A: AIDE  MEMOIRE                                        ..................................................... 36
Attachment 1: Property Tax Reform  .....................................................                       45
Attachment 2: Survey of Living Conditions .....................................................                  49
APPENDIX B: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE .....................................................                                               53
I.    Project Context .....................................................                                    53
II.   Project Objectives and Description .....................................................                 53
III.  Project Cost and Financing .....................................................                         55
IV. The Role of the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) and the Social Sectors
Unit (SSU) .....................................................                                        55
V.   Project Implementation and Results .....................................................                  56
VI.  Bank Performance .....................................................                                    66
VII. Borrower Performance                            ................................................... 66
VIII. Findings and Lessons Learned                           ............................................. 66
APPENDIX C: DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECTS ........................................ 68



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN 3153-TR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance
Project in Trinidad and Tobago, for which Loan 31 53-TR in the amount of US$4.0
million at the time of approval on January 4, 1990 was made effective on December 3,
1990.
The closing date of the loan was December 31, 1996 with four month grace period
ending on April 30, 1997. As of June 27, 1997 the value of the loan was US$4.0 million
of which US $3,933,931 had been disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Rita Parrilli, Task Manager, Public Sector Modernization
and Private Sector Development Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)
Region with contributions from Jit Gill (Tax and Customs), Judy Baker (Social Sectors), and
Kyaw Wai (Project Administration). It was reviewed by Krishna Challa, Division Chief,
and Robert Crown, Projects Adviser.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/ICR mission,
which took place November 19 to 22, 1996. It is also based on material in the project file
and discussions with staff who participated in the development and supervision of the
project as well as discussions with UNDP, IDB, the Government, and some TAL financed
consultants. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by submitting its
evaluation of the project's execution and achievements, which is included as Appendix B.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3153-TR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The fall of oil prices in 1982 and 1986 caused a severe economic decline in
Trinidad and Tobago. By the time adjustment measures were initiated in 1988, reserves
had been depleted, substantial external debt had been incurred, and per capita income had
fallen to a level roughly equivalent to what it had been in 1973, prior to the oil boom.
Major adjustment issues arose from the dominance and decline of the country's oil sector
and from the distortions it caused, including those resulting from lack of diversification
of exports.
2.    The Government's strategy was to focus on selected areas of policy that are key to
growth. The centerpiece was the structural adjustment program supported by the Bank's
$40.0 million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), which was cofmanced by the
EXIMBANK of Japan for an equal amount. The SAL focused on: (i) pubic sector
resource mobilization and allocation; (ii) private sector development through
development of an improved incentive framework for production and export; and (iii)
strengthening social sector policies and programs.
Project Objectives and Description
3.    The Government did not have in place sufficient institutional capacity to ensure
effective design and implementation of the overall adjustment program or to design and
prepare the necessary social programs. The $4.0 million Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL) that accompanied the SAL, therefore, financed consultant services and some
equipment to help the Government: (i) implement its medium-term adjustment program;
(ii) strengthen social sector policies and programs, including the design and preparation
of programs to cushion the impact of adjustment; and (ii) prepare possible future Bank
operations. The SAL and the TAL were approved together on January 4, 1990. The TAL
was the first investment operation in Trinidad and Tobago since 1979.
4.    The TAL financed six activities directly on the critical path for securing second
tranche SAL release. These were: (i) the Management and Operational Audit of the
Electricity Company (T&TEC); (ii) a review of the regulatory and incentive framework
for the petroleum sector; (iii) studies of trade related policies; (iv) installation of an
automated system of customs data (ASYCUDA); (v) improvement of the PSIP; and (vi)



iii
social sector studies. In addition, the TAL sought to strengthen the newly established
State-Owned Enterprises Unit in the Ministry of Finance, and other activities in support
of the Government's adjustment program. Three subsequent Bank loans were prepared
with support from the TAL (YTEPP, BEIRL, and Environmental Management) and the
second phase of the TAL financed Property Tax Modernization Pilot Study may be
financed under a proposed Bank operation.
Implementation Experience, Results, and Outcome
5.    The TAL substantially achieved its three objectives, which were timely, well
focused, and appropriate for addressing the most fundamental adjustment related
problems. The TAL supported activities were inter-related and mutually reinforcing.
Moreover, the SAL and the TAL benefited from the strong leadership of the seasoned
professionals appointed as Directors of the RSU and SSU and from the quality of the Unit
staff Under the able leadership of the RSU and SSU Directors cross-cutting issues were
brought forward and the synergies among the consultants' work were reinforced.
However, several changes in government, some resistance to outside consultants (at least
in part due to growing disparities between public and private sector pay), an overly
centralized public service, and, in some cases, unclear ministerial responsibilities, may
have mitigated the full implementation of the recommended policy changes.
6.    Nevertheless, the SAL/TAL program was instrumental in formalizing the
preparation of the medium-term economic plans and, together with improved PSIP
processes, it paved the way for significant additional trade reform and divestment. The
SAL/TAL program was also the point of departure for much of the Bank's future lending
program as well as the CAS. It also contributed to the Bank's Poverty Assessment
Report which was used as the basis for defining the Bank's dialogue with Trinidad and
Togabo on long-term poverty alleviation and the Wage Study included in the SOE
Component and PSIP work were useful for the Bank's Macroeconomic Assessment and
review of Public Sector Reform and Expenditures.
7.    The SSU succeeded in sensitizing Government to social sector issues, prioritizing
these issues at the policy level, and initiating a change in thinking which as moved slowly
towards action. Government is still building on these initiatives which have been
important at the overall policy level, and within specific ministries which are increasingly
taking into account the social impact of their policies and programs.



iv
Lessons Learned
8.    Some of the key lessons include:
(a)   Appointment of skilled project managers with adequately staffed project
implementation units and access to decision makers is essential for the
success of SAL/TAL type operations.
(b)   Management of large amounts of TA can be burdensome for borrowers,
particularly borrowers lacking experience in managing large numbers of
consultants. The Bank should offer training for borrowers (perhaps
through the EDI) in the Management of TA. This would enhance
possibilities of maximizing the "transfer of technology".
(c)   In countries where project evaluation is weak, consideration should be
given to covenanting in loan agreements the Bank's and borrower's
obligation to prepare ICRs. Funding should be included to assist the
borrower in initiating such an evaluation prior to the Bank!s final review
mission.






PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction/Background
1.    Since independence in 1962, oil has been the dominant feature of the Trinidad and
Tobago economy as principal export and source of Government revenue. The boom and
bust cycles of the last two decades were determined by the rise and fall of international oil
prices. The Government is the chief domestic recipient of oil revenues and, hence, the
expansion of the public sector went together with the expansion of the oil sector following
the oil boom in 1974. By 1983, when per capita income peaked at around US$6,800, the
public sector accounted for about 30% of total employment (compared to 8% in Chile)
and over 50% of Trinidad's salaried employees. This pattern of development was
sustainable only as long as oil prices remained high.
2.    The fall of oil prices in 1982 and 1986 caused a severe economic decline and by
the time adjustment measures were initiated in 1983 and intensified in 1988, the economy
had dissipated more than US$3.0 billion in reserves and incurred substantial external debt
which it was forced to reschedule. Income per capita fell to US$3,9G), roughly what it
was in 1973 prior to the oil boom. Thereafter the economic situation deteriorated sharply,
causing increased unemployment and sharp deterioration of income and living standards.
As part of the Bank's technical assistance, a comprehensive report and economic review
was prepared in 1988. This review highlighted the severe structural deficiencies of the
economy. Major adjustment issues arose from the dominance and decline of T&T's oil
sector and from distortions, including those caused by lack of economic diversification of
exports. The conclusion was that during FY90 T&T would again be eligible to borrow
from the Bank. The first IMF standby for Trinidad was approved in January 1989 for a 14
month period for the equivalent of about $120 rnillion.
3.    The Government's strategy was to focus on selected areas of policy that are key to
growth. The centerpiece was the structural adjustment program supported by the Bank's
$40 million SAL and the $4 million TAL, both approved on January 4, 1990. The SAL
was cofinanced by the EXIMBANK of Japan for an additional $40 million equivalent on
the same terms and conditions as the SAL. The SAL/TAL operations were the first in
Trinidad and Tobago since 1979. The country was graduated from Bank lending in
February 1984. The TAL closed on December 31, 1996 following two loan extensions
representing cumulative extensions of 30 months.
4.    The SAL focused on: (i) public sector resource mobilization and allocation inter
alia through state enterprise restructuring and divestiture, efficiency improvements for
public utilities and improved investment programming; (ii) private sector development
through improved incentive framework for production and export; and (iii) strengthening
social sector policies and programs including ameliorating the social impact of adjustment
through improved coordinating and targeting of social programs to protect the poor and
vulnerable groups and maintaining an adequate social safety net. The SAL, which closed



- 2 -
on December 31, 1992, disbursed against general imports excluding specific items. The
outcome of the SAL supported program was satisfactory. It helped lay the basis for more
substantial and sustainable institutional and economic development over time.
B.    Statement! Evaluation Objectives
5.    To complement the SAL, the TAL was intended to help the Government: (i)
implement its medium-term adjustment program; (ii) strengthen social sector policies and
programs, including the design and preparation of programs to cushion the impact of
adjustment; and (iii) prepare possible future Bank operations. The SAL was released in
two tranches. The first tranche of US$20 million equivalent was released upon loan
effectiveness. The second, also of US$20 million, was released following a satisfactory
review of program implementation, several important aspects of which were supported by
the TAL, per para. 9. The TAL assistance was seen mainly as policy support -- a
substitute for or complement to local expertise.
6.    The Government did not have in place sufficient institutional capacity to ensure
effective design and implementation of the overall adjustment program or to design and
prepare the necessary complement of social programs. It was correctly noted in the
President's Report that the structural adjustment program would impose additional strains
on the country's population and, in the short term, unemployment was likely to increase
and incomes would be likely to fall. The SAL/TAL program, therefore, focused early on
development of a youth unemployment program and follow-up operation (YTEPP) and
targeting of social programs to the most vulnerable.
7.    Because the TAL addressed the most urgent structural needs of the country, it
necessarily involved assistance to many agencies across several sectors. In light of the
GORTT's lack of recent experience in implementing Bank operations and the difficulties
encountered in implementing programs of other donors in the 1970s and 1980s due to
lengthy recruitment procedures, the hiring of a management consulting firm, perhaps in
joint venture with local firms, to help administer and implement the SAL/TAL was an
agreed condition of effectiveness. After completing the tendering process, and following a
coup attempt, the Government requested a waiver to the foreign management firm
requirement in favor of a lower profile and more nationally controlled approach of direct
hiring of consultants required for each study. The Bank agreed upon receiving assurances
that the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) and the Social Sector Unit (SSU) would have
adequate management and staffing and the Government's lengthy contracting,
procurement and disbursement procedures would be put on the "fast track" to facilitate
implementation. The TAL was approved in January 1990 and became effective only in
December 1990 due largely to GORTT's rethinking of its position on this condition.
8.    The second tranche release of the SAL, which depended in part on TAL support,
was originally scheduled for December 31, 1991. Compliance with second tranche
conditions was slow owing to political and social unrest and the general elections in



- 3 -
December 1991. At the request of the Government, the second tranche release date was
extended to December 31, 1992.
9.    Project Description.  TAL resources were used to finance national and
intemnational individual consultants and consulting firms involved in six activities directly
on the critical path for securing second tranche SAL release. These were: (i) the Trinidad
& Tobago Electricity Commission (T&TEC) Management and Operational Audit; (ii)
review of the regulatory and incentive framework for the petroleum sector; (iii) support
for the trade reform through studies of trade related policies; (iv) installation of
UNCTAD's Automated System of Customs Data (ASYCUDA) on a pilot basis; (v)
improvement in the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP); and (vi) social sector
studies including preparation of the YTEPP.1 The TAL also supported strengthening of
the newly established State-Owned Enterprises Unit in the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
through a series of studies.
10.   Following completion of the SAL, the TAL continued to support the GORTT's
adjustment program including: (i) Property Tax Modernization; (ii) installation of
ASYCUDA country-wide; (iii) a Study of the Institutional Framework to Support
Trinidad's Overall Development Thrust (Rationalization of Central Government Entities
Post-Adjustment); (iv) Preparation of the Business Expansion & Industrial Restructuring
Loan (BEIRL) (3432-TR); (v) Preparation of the Bank's Environmental Management
Project (3863-TR); and (iv) start-up of the second round of the Survey of Living
Conditions. The purpose and outcome of all TAL funded activities are covered in
Appendix C.
C.    Achievement of Objectives
11.   The TAL substantially achieved its three objectives, which were timely, well
focused, and appropriate for addressing the most fundamental adjustment related
problems. The main indicators of success in helping the GORTT implement its medium-
term adjustment program are set forth in the SAL/TAL matrix in the President's Report
and Table 5 of this ICR. A detailed description of the TAL's contribution to strengthening
social sector policies and to preparing possible future Bank operations (YTEPP, BEIRL,
and Environmental Management) are set forth in Appendix C. The TAL was well
designed for achieving its objectives. During the first two to three years, it focused mainly
on the areas directly on the critical path to securing second tranche SAL release. Care
was taken to ensure complementarity with SAL related assistance financed by other
The SSU carried out: (i) a review of public expenditures on the social sectors to protect the provision of a
desirable minimum level of services, especially targeting the poor; (ii) preparatory work for a social
sector project that could be considered by the Bank for financing (YTEPP, Ln. 3328-TR); (iii)
introduction of a system to generate information on living standards in order to monitor the effects of
the adjustment on the poor and vulnerable groups and provide the basis for improved targeting of
interventions (the Survey of Living Conditions); and (iv) further development of the social security
system.



-4 -
donors. During its final three years the Government prudently chose to direct TAL
resources to additional areas central to its adjustment objectives.
12.   The SSU was critical in building momentum and ensuring the implementation of
the various social sector activities due to the strong coordinating and leadership role
played by the SSU Director, the fact that the Unit was outside the bureaucracy, and that
some of the normal procedural constraints of government were lifted. The Unit was
particularly strong at pulling together several ministries for consultation on specific
activities.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The SAL and the TAL benefited substantially from the strong leadership of the
seasoned professionals appointed as Directors of the RSU and SSU and competent
staffing. The loan agreement was prepared in a flexible way so as to permit the GORTT
and the RSU and SSU Directors to undertake work in key areas of the Government's
adjustment program and preparatory work for future reforrns following completion of the
SAL.
14.   TAL activities were inter-related and mutually reinforcing. Under the able
leadership of the RSU and SSU Directors cross-cutting issues were brought forward and
the synergies among the consultants' work was reinforced. For exarnple, the Operational
and Management Audit of T&TEC benefited from the Legal And Institutional Framework
Study under the SOE Sector Studies, particularly the role and functions of the Public
Utilities Commission (PUC). The PSIP work focused in part on investments of State
Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and Public Utilities (PUs). Reform of the Trade Regime
benefited from complementary work of four separate activities, all of which focused on
strengthening the non-oil tradable sector: (i) the Study on the Impact of Trade
Liberalization in Connection with the Structural Adjustment Programr (SAP), (ii)
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC's) review of the
effects on employment of trade reforms; (iii) introduction of the Automated System of
Customs Administration; and, later, (iv) the Study of the Institutional Framework to
Support Trinidad's Overall Development Thrust. The cadastral aspects of the reform of
the system of property taxation, has potential major collateral benefits for WASA and
T&TEC as well as reform of the postal service to be supported under the proposed Public
Service Strengthening Operation.
15.   Areas which may have partially hindered the full implementation of the
recommended policy changes relate to: (i) several changes in government (3 regimes)
during the life span of the TAL leading to delays as each new administration had taken
time to identify its priorities; (ii) at times a lack of political will to implement some social
policies; (iii) staff of some ministries resisted consultants (both national and international)
and their recommendations as they were perceived as outsiders who may not fully
understand sector-specific or Trinidad-specific issues; (iv) the growing disparity between



- 5 -
public and private sector pay, which has the dual negative effect of causing some
resentments against the better paid consultants and the departure of trained capable public
servants to the private sector (potentially the Petroleum Study component); and (v)
unclear ministerial responsibilities and weak institutional capacity.
16.   In addition, the public service management (derived from a Westminster tradition)
has been highly centralized and controls oriented. Centralization of management authority
emanates from the highest levels, with Cabinet maintaining control on decisions of
significance, leading to delays. Cabinet has, however, recently delegated authority to
Ministers in a number of areas except those requiring policy decisions or involving
financial resource allocation.
E.   Project Sustainability
17.   The Performance Audit Report for the SAL2 noted that the achievements under
the SAL program are likely to be sustainable. Successive administrations have
demonstrated commitment to the fundamental objectives of the SAP, as supported by the
TAL, including diversifying the economy away from dependence on oil and recognition
that the new role of the state as facilitator of economic activity should be spearheaded by
the private sector.
18.   The SAL/TAL program was instrumental in formalizing the preparation of the
medium-term economic plans, together with improved PSIP processes, and it paved the
way for significant additional trade reform and divestment. The structural reforms
implemented in the SAL have resulted in incentives which should improve efficiency and
output on a sustainable basis according to the Audit.
19.  However, as indicated in para. 15, the ability of the Government to recruit and
retain qualified personnel has been hampered by the existing compressed wage structure of
the public service. This in turn has limited the Government's ability to improve its project
planning, implementation and monitoring capacity, and the quality of public services.
Moreover, the lack of computerized payroll records and the resulting dearth of personnel
information has restricted its ability to plan and implement a human resource program. The
TAL activities which may be most affected by this salary issue are the PSIP and Petroleum
Legislation Review.
F.    Bank Performance
20.   The teams designing and supervising the SAL and the TAL worked closely to
ensure consistency and complementarity. They coordinated closely with the national
2 Tinidad and Tobago: Structural Adjustment Loan Performance Audit Report, SecM95-799 of July 28,
1995.



- 6 -
authorities and other donors: (i) The 1MF mid-term review mission of the first standby
overlapped with the Bank's SAL/TAL appraisal mission and the respective staffs
collaborated in the formulation of the respective programs; (ii) the design and
implementation of the IDB's Investment Sector Loan (ISL) approved in 1993 for US$80
million is supported by the RSU and complemented the Bank efforts to improve public
investment procedures, improve the climate for private sector investment, broaden the
divestment process, and extend trade and price liberalization beyond manufacturing to the
agricultural sector; (iii) IDB's grant and Multi-sectoral Preinvestment loan for PSIP
improvements coincided with and complemented the TAL financed work; (iv)
UNDP/UNCTAD implemented the ASYCUDA at GORTT's request; and (v) UNECLAC
and the ILO were requested by the Government to help implement the social amelioration
component of the SAL/TAL; and (vi) the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
(CFTC) provided the services of a Property Tax Adviser to serve as In-House Consultant
to the RSU.
21.   The same sector specialists who participated in the identification, appraisal and
supervision of the SAL, did so also for the TAL. This involved a multisectoral team with
expertise in the key areas addressed by each operation: trade, investment, petroleum,
public enterprise reform, power, social sectors, technical assistance, and later, tax and
customs. The same team remained intact to ensure consistency in dealing with SAL/TAL
issues throughout the life of the SAL. TAL supported work also provided important
inputs to the CAS (1995), future lending operations (Table 2), and ESW, including the
Poverty Study (1995) and Public Expenditure Review (1996).
22.   Cordial working relations were developed early between the Bank staff and the
Borrower. Project implementation progress was adequately reported; implementation
problems (such as those covered in para. 7) were identified early and addressed,
performance ratings were appropriate, loan covenants were enforced and advice and
guidance, particularly on audit related matters, were given from Washington and in the
field.
G.   Borrower Performance
23.   The Borrower is to be credited with appointing highly competent and committed
staff to the RSU and SSU who were able to overcome many of the implementation
difficulties and delays. The borrower is particularly to be credited with making maximum
use of the TAL funded activities, and judiciously targeting them to high priority
adjustment related areas in the last three years of the TAL (e.g. customs, property tax, the
Development Thrust Study).
24.   The RSU and the SSU were responsible for the preparation and implementation of
adjustment related activities. The previous RSU team was responsible for considerable
project savings due to skilled management, including: (i) careful negotiation of national
and international consulting firm contracts; (ii) project activities carried out by RSU/SSU
staff themselves, rather than consultants (e.g., YTEPP project preparation); (iii)



substitution in some cases of national for international consultants; (iv) use of
government's own resources to finance activities originally envisaged for TAL financing
(e.g. RSUWSSU staff, SOE divestment/liquidation); and (v) partial substitution of grant
funds for loan funds (e.g. PSIP/IDB TA funds). This skill in funds management made
possible the reallocation of funds for purposes of financing the $1.2 million Property Tax
Study.
25.   Borrower commitment to the SAL/TAL objectives is evident from the Project's
outcome described below.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
26.   The performance of some components was highly satisfactory (RSU/SSU,
T&TEC, Study of Trade and Related Policies, Petroleum Legislative Review) and most
others were satisfactory, as indicated in Appendix C. While parts of the assistance to the
State Owned Enterprise Unit in the Ministry of Finance were useful, establishment of a
Public Enterprise Database and Monitoring and Evaluation System was perhaps the least
successful TAL supported activity. The project, nevertheless, achieved or exceeded all
major objectives, as indicated in Section C on the achievement of objectives and is likely
to achieve substantial development results. The SAL/TAL program was the point of
departure for much of the Bank's future lending program as well as the CAS.3 It also
contributed to the Bank's Poverty Assessment Report4 which was used as the basis for
defining the Bank's dialogue with Trinidad and Tobago on long-term poverty alleviation
and the Wage Study included in the SOE Component and PSIP work were useful for the
Bank's Macroeconomic Assessment and Review of Public Sector Reform and
Expenditures.5
27.   As a result of SAP reforms, real GDP grew by 3.8% in 1994; 2.4% in 1995; 3.2%
for 1996 (estimated); and 4.0% in 1997 (expected) after a decade of almost uninterrupted
economic decline. Trinidad and Tobago is making the transition from a public sector
dominated economy to a private sector led one. The economic reforms that have been
adopted in pursuit of this objective have encompassed all areas of the economy. Thus,
since the adjustment program was adopted in 1989, the economy has been stabilized by
the elimination of the fiscal deficit brought about by a sharp reduction in public
expenditure; the tax administration has been modernized (except property tax) and a VAT
introduced; the public sector has been transformed by extensive divestment, including
most recently the divestment of the national airline and the partial divestment of the power
3 Trinidad and Tobago: Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 14028-TR of March 7, 1995.
4 Trinidad and Tobago: Poverty and Unemployment in an Oil Based Economy, Report No. 14382-TR of
October 27, 1995
5 Trinidad and Tobago: Macroeconomic Assessment and Review of Public Sector Reform and
Expenditures: The Changing Role of the State, Report No. 15197-TR of June 28, 1996.



- 8 -
generation facilities; there is also a continuing trade reform, as well as reforms of the
financial and business sectors.
28.   During the adjustment period a new conception of the role of Government in the
economy evolved. Government is now envisaged as playing a more limited (albeit pivotal)
role focusing primarily on infrastructure, human resource development and provision of
public goods (e.g., law and order, environmental protection, administration of justice,
public safety, etc.), while facilitating the development of efficient private sector markets
and production. This new direction gave rise to GORTT's request to use TAL funds to
finance the Development Thrust Study.
29.   The SSU succeeded in sensitizing Government to social sector issues, prioritizing
these issues at the policy level, and initiating a change in thinking which has moved slowly
towards action. Government is still building on these initiatives which have been
important at the overall policy level, and within specific ministries which were
unaccustomed to thinking about social impact of their policies and programs (e.g. utilities,
trade, and petroleum sectors).
30.    Some specific outcomes which have both directly and indirectly resulted from the
TAL include expansion and refinement of the YTEPP, strengthening of a national feeding
program (originally called ECHO and now named SHARE), inclusion of a social impact
mitigation program under the IDB ISL, initiation of a health sector reform program, basic
education improvement program, and a Community Development Fund (CDF),
conceptualization of a safety net reform, adjustment in utility tariff policies to assist the
poorest, and some procedural changes within the National Insurance Board. The studies
carried out were also generally of high quality and were useful to exposing various
ministries to a new set of economic and analytical tools which have been subsequently
used for further work. Those studies which appear to have resulted in the greatest
adoption by the ministries were those where Ministry staff were actively involved in the
preparation and consultation phases. This process seemed to have fostered a sense of
ownership.
L     Future Operations
31.   The objectives of the adjustment program, which the TAL supported, remain
relevant, as set forth in the latest CAS. The TAL contributed to the formulation of several
Bank operations (YTEPP, BEIRL, Environmental Management, and possibly the
proposed Public Sector Strengthening Operation6) as well as to the Bank/country dialog in
several important areas including social sectors, trade, public enterprise and utility
restructuring, public investments.
6 The Government expressed interest in financing Phase II of the Property Tax Reform (about $10.0
million) from the proposed Public Administrative Strengthening Operation. The objective would be
to broaden the tax base and further reduce fiscal dependency on oil revenues. The requisite Cabinet
Note is under preparation.



32.   Work begun under the TAL is being built upon in several ways:
(a)   Finalization of the agriculture policy framework and defining land tenure
policy (IDB's Agricultural Sector Operation);
(b)    Continued strengthening of the customs service (US Customs);
(c)   Continued improvements in planning, monitoring and implementation of.
public investments (IDB's $10.3 million Preinvestment Loan);
(d)   Improved monitoring of poverty and unemployment indicators and
improved integration of the analytical information in government programs
(recently approved Bank Institutional Development Fund (IDF)) grant
related to the next round of the Survey of Living Conditions.
(e)   The Government has sought assistance from MIGA and FIAS to provide
an enabling environment for private sector development.
33.   Further, the Government is committed to considering an incentives based system
of public management on principles of strategic management, delegation of authority,
client orientation and accountability for performance.
J.    Key Lessons Learned/Reconfirmed
34.   Appointment of skilled project managers with adequate staffs and access to
decision makers was a highly effective design element and is essential for successful
implementation of SAL/TAL type operations.
35.   Provision of additional technical support in the form of In-house Consultants
(technical advisers) proved quite successful in providing the necessary quality control and
an objective "second opinion" on critical policy issues.
36.   The RSU itself reflected the following useful lessons in their evaluations of early
TAL activities:
(a)   The Client should carefully analyze the role of personnel hired from local
affiliates of consulting firms as their roles can be redundant and included
simply as a courtesy for the Consultant doing business in the affiliate's
country (SOEU -- Wage Study).
(b)   Where crucial vacancies need to be filled or new posts established in client
agencies, consideration should be given to hiring persons on a contract
basis until the necessary approvals are obtained (PSIP).



- 10-
(c)   Participants at workshops must be provided with some encouragement to
stay on as their input is usually critical. Some mechanism, such as
instruction from the PS to the agency head could possibly achieve this.
(d)   Special emphasis should be placed on pin-pointing the critical junctures in a
project where procurement (e.g. of computer equipment) needs to take
place. This advance planning could be done to ensure that all preparatory
activities for procurement are completed sufficiently in advance to achieve
delivery by the required date (SOE Database).
(e)   There is a need to put proper systems in place before project start-up so
that problems such as timely payments to consultants do not divert
attention of decision makers from substantial issues and the morale and
confidence of those working on the project is not jeopardized (several
activities, including Property Tax).
37.   During implementation of the PSIP activities a problem arose over the lead
consultant (national) being paid at nearly international rates. MOPAD staff saw
substantial value in the training of national and counterpart staff in TA Management at the
outset of TA and Institutinal Development (ID) operations with a view to mitigating the
effects of problems of this nature.
38.   The Bank can draw two lessons from para. 36 and 37. First, the management of
large amounts of TA can be burdensome for borrowers, particularly borrowers without
experience in managing large numbers of consultants. The EDI needs to develop courses
in the Management of TA to enhance possibilities of getting the most out of long and
short term consultancies, whether firms or individuals, nationals or internationals. Second,
borrowers frequently encounter difficulties in keeping financial records in accordance with
Bank audit and accounting requirements. The Bank should develop standard software
that would facilitate this process.
39.   Finally, consideration should be given to covenanting the Bank's and the
borrower's preparation of the project is evaluation (ICRs) in loan agreements, and
including small amounts for consultant services to assist the borrower in preparing
preliminary evaluations in time for the final Bank review mission. Most Project teams
begin to disband when the project starts to wind down and the institutional memory may
be lost.



-1 1-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial        Negliib1e       Not applicable
Macro Policies                     El                               5 
Sector Policies                                   [                5                 5
Financial Objectives               5               5                5
Institutional Development          5                               5                 5
Physical Objectives                5               5                5
Poverty Reduction                  5               5                5
Gender Issues                      3               S                n
Other Social Objectives            5              E                                 E
Environmental Objectives           5               5               5                El
Public Sector Management           E              El               Q                 a
Private Sector Development         5                               5                 5
Other (specify)                    5               5               5
(Continued)
B. ProjectSustainabilitv              Likell                 Unlikelv                 Uncertain
(/)                      (1)                      (1)
o~5 



-12-
Hfighly
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                     Q                      IA
Preparation Assistance             Q                      I                         E
Appraisal                          O                      IA                       E
Supervision                       E]  
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance                     satisfacton    Satisfactory    Deficient
(V')()()
Preparation                                 Q              I              E
Implementation                              Q             IA              E
Covenant Compliance                         Q             IA              E
Operation (if applicable)                                 I               El
Highly       Moderatelv                         Highlv
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactorv   Satisfactor   Unsatisfactor     unsatisfactorv
El   ~~l-IEl                                 El
1/ The outcome of some TAL components was highly satisfactory and most were
moderately satisfactory.



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Trinidad & Tobago T.A. Loan No. 3153
LoanlCredit Title                                                                                    Year of
Preceedlinc Operations                             Purpose                                          Approval       Status
3152-Tit   Structual            To create a viable and stable economic conditions conducive to restoring a  1990   Closed
Adjustment           higher and sustained rate of economic growth; improvement of the incentive         12131192
framework, public sec finances, and formulation of realistic pub sec inv prog.
Following ODerations
3328-TIR   Education            Assist the gov. in cushioning the social costs of the adj. process through tlhe  1991  Closing Date
& Training    establislhment of an effective meclianism aimed at addressing basic ieeds          6130/98
of the population: in a decentralized maniner, througlh groups, like NGOs.
3432-TIR   Business Expansion    To promote development and/or restructuring of private manufacturing or  1991   Closing Date
service firms,especially to enter and compete in export markets; improve          12/31/99         A
the safety and soundness of the financial system by strengthening the supervision
of fin. intermediaries; improve the technical standards used to asess the environmental
impact of public and private sector projects in T&T.
3734-TIR   Water Sector         To implement sustainable institution building mechanisms supporting the  1994    Closing Date
Institutional Strength.   financial and private sector, and to facilitate the effective implementation of  6/30/98
policy measures supported by private sector development adjustment credit.
3863-Til   Environmental        Improve the environment for the private sector and tlhereby            1995      Closing Date
Management           stimulate economic growth.                                                         12/31/99



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Trinidad and Tobago - T.A.L. No. 8098
Steps in Project Cycle                           Date Planned              Date Actual/
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ _    ______latest  est
Identification (Exec Project Summary)             n.a.               March 24,1989
Preparation                                       n.a.                   Nov-88
Appraisal Mission                               May 1989               May 6, 1989
Negotiation                                  September 1989          October 19, 1989
Board Presentation                                n.a.               January 4, 1990
Signing                                           n.a.               January 25,1990
Effectiveness                                December 1990          December 3, 1990
Project Completion                             June 1993                June 1996
Loan Closing                               December 31, 1993        December 31,1996
n.a.: not available
K.Wai
May 14, 1997



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Trinidad and Tobago - T.A.L. No. 8098
FY              90        91       92       93       94        95       96       97
Appraisal Estimate     1.7      3.2       3.7      4.0
(Cumulative)
Actual (Yearly)        0.0      0.6       1.1      0.0      0.3      0.7       0.5      0.8
Actual (Cumulative)    0.0      0.6       1.7      1.7      2.0      2.7       3.2      4.0
Actual as % of Est.    0%       19%      46%      43%       50%      68%      80%      99%                           n
K.Wai
May 14,1997



Page 1 of 11
May30, 1997
Table 5: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (TAL) (3153-TR)
ASSISTANCE MATRIX
BANK SAL POLICY AREAS AND RELATED ACTIONS SUPPORTED BY THE TAL
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance        Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms     Presentation                  Prior to Second
_ _ __ _   Tranche Release
1. Project        Project Management            Project Management   Project Management              Project Management
Management
Strengthening     Restructuring Support Unit    Satisfactory progress   The RSU and the SSU will be  Increased capacity of
Government's      (RSU) and a Social Sector Unit  in studies and     headed and staffed by Government  GoN emnuent to oversee a
institutional     (SSU) in the Ministry of      preparation/adoption    officials and supported by two  program of economic
capacity to. (i)  Planning and Mobilization     of action programs and  long-tern consultants and several  restructuring and reform The
implement the     established and the Directors  proposals.          short tern consultancies in each  RSIJ and SSU were ably
adjustment        named. The RSU will focus on                       unit for two to three years.    directed and staffed and
program; and (ii)  implementing reforns initiated                    Consultants will assist in the  successfully carried out its
amneliorate the   under the SAL (II-IX below).                       coordination and implementation    mandate. The SAL related
social costs of   The SSU will focus on                              of the SAL and the Government's  assistance was satisfactorilv
adjustment.       mitigating the social costs of                     overall adjustment program      completed.
adjustment (X below).                              including preparatory work for
further reforms in the areas of
The Units should be staffed                       trade and industry, state owned
functioning and Directors                          enterprises and the social sectors.
appointed and in place as a
condition of TAL effectiveness.                    RESPONSIBLE AGENCY: RSU
and SSU: Ministry of Planning and
-_____________                           Mobilization (M,PAD/PS). _obilization _MOPA_D_S_
11. Public Sector   State Owned Enterprises     State Owned          State Owned Enterprises         State Owned Enterprises
Reforms/State                                   Enterprises
Owned Enterprises
Improvement of    Time-phased action plans      Complete liquidations  (i) Consultant services to support  (i) Full or partial divestments,
resource          prepared to divest partially or    for NHHC, SNC and   actions required for second tranche  liquidation and efficiency
mobilization and    fully an agreed list of enterprises NSR.         release. These will include advice  improvements in SOEs
efficiency of     (TCL, TELCO, Crown Reef,                           on restructuring mode of        completed with Government's
resource          TTPP) and to restructure Solid   Prepare for divestment  divestment and valuation of assets.  oWnl resources. Bank



Page 2 of II
May30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance         Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms     Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
allocation.       Waste.                        (including by                                          supported PE operation
liquidation joint                                     dropped from the Bank's
Unit established in the Ministry   venture and long term                           lending program at
of Finance, to be supported with  lease) and bring to the  (ii) Assistance in the preparation of Government's request/TAL
technical assistance under the    market at least three    a possible Bank supported public   helped prepare the Bank
TAL, to facilitate           enterprises.          enterprises adjustment/private   supported Business and
implementation of agreed action                    sector development operation.    Industrial Restructuring
plans and related matters.                                                          operation (BEIRL).
RESPONSIBLE AGENCY:
Ministry of Finance/State Owned   (iii) Development of a
Enterprise Unit/PS.             pennanent institutional
capacity in Governnent to
oversee the effective
performance of the SOE
sector. This outcome to be
reconfirmed by Govt.
Public Utilities  Public Utilities              Public Utilities      Public Utilities                 Water Authority
Improvement of    (a) Watcr Authority            Consultant report    (a) Water Authority Operational,   (a) 1DB supported.
efficiency in     Agreement with the Govermmcnt  prepared including: (i)  financial and management
resource          and the Water Authority on the   plan for rehabilitation   consultancies to the Water
mobilization and    objectives of an action plan to    of commercial system,  Authority to be financed by IDB
efficiency in     be prepared and carried out by   (e.g., billing and  loan/grant.
resource allocatiorn  the Government and WASA.    collection, census of                                (B) Action Plans suecesfullv
These objectives include: (i)  all water and sewerage  (b) TAL financed services on an    completed.
financial self-sufficiency    connections and plan   In-House Utilities Consultant who
(including phased reduction of   for metering large  prepared action plans for WASA
transfers from Central        consumers, including   and T&T TEC to facilitate
Government) and overall sound   heavy industrial    compliance with SAL targets.
financial management as       consumers), (ii)
measure by targets including  proposals for tariff
working ratio and receivables;   levels and structure in
(ii) administrative efficiency  line with agreed
including appropriate         objectives; (iii) plans
accounting, billing and     | for achieving the



Page 3 of 11
May30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance       Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms    Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
collection systems; (iii)    following targets by
operational efficiency, as   end 1991 - working
measured by targets for number  ratio less than 1.05;
of customers per employee;   receivables 6 months
share of salaries in operating  or less; and
expenditures; number of metered  employees/1000 water
connections; maintenance levels. connections reduced
from 3 1 to less that 21
and by 1993 working
ratios less that 0.95,
Government agreement that    and receivables 4
consultants would be in place by  months or less. Action
February 1990.               plan adopted and
implementation in
Government commitment to     accordance with plan.
keep its account balances and
those of its agencies current, and  Arrears of Government
arrangements made to liquidate  and its agencies
arrears.                     liquidated and account
balances made current.
(b) Power Company Agreement  (b) Power Company    (b) Power Company               (b) Power Company
with the Government and the  (i) Management and    Management and operational audit
power company on the         operational audit    of the Power Company (T&T       Long term rehabilitation and
objectives of an action plan to    carried out, and action  TEC) and development of an  performnance targets to achieve
be prepared and carried out by   plan reflecting  action plan.                    SAL second tranche
the Government and the power   objectives formulated                              conditionality targets,
company (based on the        and mutually agreed;                                 successfully met, including
management and operational    (acting plan to include  RESPONSIBLE AGENCY:        action plan on tariff levels and
audit to be financed under the    targets, timing and  T&TTEC General Manager     invcstments fully met.
TAL). These objectives include: means of achieving
(i) financial self-sufficiency and  targets); (ii) measures
overall sound financial      adopted, including best
management as measured by    efforts to obtain tariff
targets including rate of return,   adjustment in order to                      _



Page 4 of 11
May30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance        Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms     Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
net internal cash generation,  achieve break-even
debt-equity ratio, debt service    position in 1990; (iii)
coverage, receivables; (ii)  investment program
administrative efficiency    adopted in line with
including appropriate        action plan; (iv)
accounting, billing and      customer/employee
collection systems; (iii)    ratio of not least than
operational efficiency as    99 (from current 97)
measured by targets for number  achieved.
of customers per employee,
share of salaries in operating
expenditures; technical losses;
maintenance levels; (iv) sound
investment programming based
on the principles of least-cost
expansion and financial
feasibility. Sound balance
between generation/
transmission and distribution.    Non government
account balances
Government agreement that    reduced to 60 days;
consultants would be in place by  arrears of Government
February 1990.               and its agencies
liquidated and account
Government commitment to     balance made current.
keep its account balances and
those of its agencies current; and
arrangements made to liquidate
arrears.
(c) Public Sector   (c) Public Sector Investment  (c) Public Sector  (c) Public Sector Investment     (c) Public Sector Investment
Investment        Program (PSIP)                Investment Program    Program (PSIP)                  Program (PSIP)
Program (PSIP)                                  (PSIP)
Development of a   Agreement on: (i) the size,  Agreement on: (i) the   TAL assistance & IDB assistance   A viable three year rolling
capacity to       composition and sectoral      size, composition and   directed to supporting strengthened  program of priority projects



Page 5 of 11
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance        Expected ResultslOutcome
Areas/Reforms    Presentation                   Prior to Second
Tranche Release
formulate,        balance and financial plan of a   sectoral balance and    investment project preparation  was successfully prepared to
implement and     core PSIP for 1989; (ii) on  financing plan of a   capabilities including a viable  bankable standards as were
monitor the PSIP.   coverage of the PSIP to include  rolled over PSIP  rolling PSIP and the development   projcct preparation guidelines
the investments of Central   covering the period   of a pipeline of projects for   from selection through
Government, public utilities and  1990-1992, with the    inclusion in the PSIP,    evaluation Satisfactory
all SOEs where the Government  core program for 1990  complimentary to the IDB     progress was made in
is the majority shareholder or is  clearly identified  assistance.                 strengthening the PSIP
funding specific investment  (project through the                                  monitoring system.
projects; (iii) that current  TAL); (ii) project   RESPONSIBLE AGENCY:
expenditures be excluded from    preparation guidelines  Ministry of Planning and
the PSIP; (iv) to develop project  (including      Mobilization/PS tlhrouglh the
preparation guidelines (including  environmental impact   Director, Project & Planning
environmental impact         assessments), selection  Reconstruction.
assessments), including analysis  criteria and approval
of current cost implications of   procedures and the                                                           o
investment projects, project  institutional roles and
selection criteria and project  responsibilities of the
approval procedures (including   various agencies
decision making powers) to   involved in the PSIP
ensure that all projects above a   process; appropriate
financial threshold of US$ 1.0    coordination
million are subject to full  mechanisms; a formal
technical, economic and      project pre-selection
financial analysis before they  process; (iii)
are included in the PSIP; (v) to   satisfactory progress
design a system to monitor the   in strengthening the
PSIP (both physical and      PSIP monitoring
financial progress) in order to    system.
facilitate the review of
implementation performance on
a quarterly basis.                          ._ 



Page 6 of 11
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance      Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms    Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
III. Macro        Macro Economic              Macro Economic        Macro Economic
Economic
Objective- viability                           Favorable Bank       No TAL assistance foreseen.    N/A
of economic                                    assessment of the
program.                                       implementation of the
medium term economic
program and its
sustainability.   .
IV. Exchange Rate  Exchange Rate               Exchange Rate        Exchange Rate
Objective-        Performance of non-petroleum    Review performance    No TAL assistance foreseen.  N/A
improvement of    exports and evolution of real  of non-petroleum
international     exchange rate reviewed.      exports and evolution
competitiveness.                               of real exchange rate.
V. Trade Regime   Trade Regime                 Trade Regime         Trade Regime                   __
Objective-
reduction of anti-
export bias in trade
regime.
(a) Reduce       (a) Agreement to phase out    (a) Negative list    (a) See below.
remainder of      negative list affecting the  affecting the
import negative list manufacturing sector by end  manufacturing (non-
(i.e., import     1991 and shift to tariff-based    oil) sector reduced by
licensing and     protection (with limited     items representing
QRs).             exceptions such as may be    40% of the production
required because of intemational coverage involved; and
agreements, national security    agreement on time-
and public health). Time frame   phased action program
for items produced by state  to eliminate the rest by
trading company subject to   end 1991 textiles and
results of agriculture study  garments, leather,
proposed below.              shoes made of leather,
and other leather goods
to be removed in this
final phase).



Page 7 of 11
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance       Expected Results/Outcome
AreaslReforms    Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
Agreement that total import
charges on items removed from
the negative list would not
exceed 100% of the c.i.f. price
(except for textiles and garments
where the equivalent tariff, to be
estimated, would apply); and be
reduced in successive steps to
the corresponding CET by end
1994. Technical assistance will
be provided under the TAL for
strengthening tariff/customs
administration and anti-dumping
arrangements.
Agreement to conduct a study,   Study of the protective  See (c) below.
under TOR agreed with the    regime affecting
Bank, of the protective regime    agriculture and the
affecting agriculture and the  state trading company
state trading company taking  completed, and
into account the Government's  findings discussed with
objective of maximizing the  the Bank.
efficient use of local resources.
Study initiated of the impact on
domestic industries of removing
items to be removed from
negative list.
(b) Initiate     (b) Agreement to refrain from                      (b) No separate TAL assistance
elimination of    granting duty exemptions for                      foreseen (see c below).
import duty       new industries.
exemptions.
Review initiated of existing duty (b) Time-phased action
exemptions with a view to    plan formulated and
assessing their practical    mutually agreed.



Page 8 of 11
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance        Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms     Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
significance for T&T's       Implementation in
competitiveness in CARICOM    accordance with action
markets and formulating action   plan.
plan for their phased removal
over three to five years.                                                     __
(c) Initiation of  (c) Agreement on the following   (c) Study conducted of  (c) (i) A Study of Trade and  (C) Studies satisfactorv
medium-tern tariff  principles of the medium-term    trade and associated    Related Policies and a Study to  completed on modification of
reform to reduce    tariff reform: (i) the objective is  policies to be financed   Measure the Indirect Tax Content  the structure of incentives in
level and         to achieve a maximum rate of    under the TAL; and  of Exports and Rebate Systems  favor of production for export,
dispersion of     import charges I/ equivalent to   agreement on the  Reform; and (ii) preliminary work  including recommendations to
effective         the CARICOM CET currently   medium-term tariff    for the proposed Trade and       reduce levels of protection,
protection.       45% for most items (or other    reform program for the  Finance Loan will be supported by  design of a medium term tariff
lower rate that may be agreed    (non-oil)         consultant services.            programr to be supported by a
within CARICOM); (ii) the    manufacturing sector.                                 possible trade and finance
tariff reform to be accomplished                   RESPONSIBLE AGENCY              operation in compliance with    w
through annual adjustments in                      Ministry of Trade and           SAI, conditionality. Lending
protection rates over three to                     Industry, PS.                   operation dropped from TAL
five years ending in 1994; (iii)                                                   at Borrowers' request
reduction in dispersion of
effective protection rates; (iv)
reduction of the number of tariff
bands; and (v) exemptions from
import duties to be kept to a
minimum.
(e) Simplification   (e) Agreement to accelerate  (e) Satisfactory    (e) Strengthening of Customs    (e) ASYCUDA System
import and export  implementation of UNCTAD's  progress in            Administration, including       successfully installed country
procedures        recommendations regarding     implementing the      provision of equipment in       wide.
trade facilitation reforms,  reforms and the       connection with installation of the
including introduction of its  ASYCUDA system.    ASYCUDA system
ASYCUDA system with
financing under the TAL.                           RESPONSIBLE AGENCY
Ministry of Finance Customs and
Excise Department (CED)



Page 9 of 11
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance           Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms     Presentation                   Prior to Second
____ ____ ____ ____ __  Tranche Release
VI. Export        Export Incentives              Export Incentives     Export Incentives                Export Incentives
Incentives
Objective- improve
incentives for
exporting by
creating simulated
free trade status
for exports.
Agreement to examine in       Selected scheme       Consultant assistance in the     Succesfully completed by TAL
collaboration with the private    established and   measurement of direct and indirect  consultants.
sector, altemative systems in  functioning for      content of indirect taxes on
place in other countries, for  manufacturers        exports.
providing free trade status to  primarily engaged in
exporters (e.g., temporary    exporting; timetable    RESPONSIBLE AGENCY:
admission regime, in-bond     for providing similar    Ministry of Trade & Indus-
manufacturing, rebate system  facility for other    try, PS.
for any indirect taxes) with a  exporters.
view to identifying a scheme
suitable for adoption in Trinidad
and Tobago.
VII. Investment    Investment Incentives         Investment Incentives   Investment Incentives          Investment Incentives
Incentives                                                                                           _
Objective-
increasing
incentives for
investment,
particularly foreign
investment and
modify the
structure of
incentives in favor
of production for
export.                 ___-
Streamlining      A "one stop shop" for new      Satisfactory operation   No TAL assistance foreseen.    _-



Page 10 of II
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy        Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance           Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms      Presentation                  Prior to Second
Tranche Release
procedures for    investors created. Investment    of new system and
investment        application documentation      documentation.
application review   simplified and shortened.                                       _
Adopting mcasures                                Satisfactory lcgislation  No TAL assistance forcsecn.
for promoting and                                or equivalent
facilitating foreign                             regulations adopted for
investment.                                      facilitating foreign
investment.
VIII. Tourism      Tourism Incentives            Tourism Incentives    Tourism Incentives               Tourism Incentives
Incentives                                        ___                                 _
Objective-         Bilateral negotiations initiated                    No TAL assistance foreseen.
increasing tourism   for direct scheduled flights to
arrivals.          Tobago by international airlines.
Liberalize airline                                                                                                                    s)
services.          __
IX. Petroleum      Petroleum Sector Incentives   Petroleum Sector      Petroleum Sector Incentives      An assessment of T&T's
Sector Incentives    Agreement to review, with the    Incentives       Consultancy services to          competitiveness for
Stimulation of     assistance through the TAL, the  Consultants engaged    review existing legislation and  encouraging increased private
increased private    petroleum taxation regime and    under agreed TOR;  propose necessary changes.     sector investment in the
investment in the    the general regulatory      satisfactory progress                                  petroleum industry and
petroleum sector.   framework to assess Trinidad &   in conducting reviews.                             recommendations for
Tobago's competitiveness for                        RESPONSIBLE AGENCY:              improvement, where
encouraging                                         Ministry of Energy/PS            necessary. Successfilly
completed Legislation
prepared.
X. Social Sector    Social Sector Reforms        Social Sector Reforms  Social Sector Reforms           Social Sector Reforms
Reforms
Objectives-
strengthening of
the Government's
capacity to
ameliorate the
social costs of
adjustment.                                                                           _



Page 11 of 11
May 30, 1997
SAL Policy         Actions Taken Prior to Board   Action to be Taken    Related TAL Assistance           Expected Results/Outcome
Areas/Reforms      Presentation                  Prior to Second
_ _______________   ___________________________   Tranche   Release
(a) A Social Sector Unit (SSU)   (a) Unit staffed and  (a) Consultant assistance to carry    Studies successfullv
for studies in MOPAM is       functioning;           out studies required for release of   completed with a view to
established.Agreement on      satisfactory progress   the second tranche and resulting  Protecting minimum levels of
TORs for studies to be carried    on studies and in  action programs and prepare a    service to poor and vulnerable
out by the Unit and financed  preparation/adoption    possible social sectors operation.    groups, including further
under the TAL, including      of action programs and                                  development of a social
studies aimed at improving the    proposals per TORs.   RESPONSIBLE AGENCY:           security system. Preparation
provision of social services and                     Social Sectors Unit (SSU),       of a social sectors operation
facilitating the implementation                      MDPAD                            (YTEPP).
of the adjustment, studies on
public expenditures in the social
sectors, living standards
measurement; further
development of the social
security system and preparation
of a Social Sector project inter
alia to strengthen employment
prospects of unemployed youth.



-27-
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT PREPARATION
Project Costs by Category
($US Thousand)
Trinidad and Tobago - T.A.L. No. 8098
GOTT         IBRD          Total
I Restructuring Support Unit (RSU)                       1635 a/       350          1985
Social Sector Unit (SSU)                                  5           221          226
2 SOEU - State Owned Enterprises Unit                       0           115          115
3 T&TEC                                                     0          405           405
4 Public Sector Investment Programme (PSIP)                 0           352          352
5 Trade Reform - Maxwell Stamp                              0          280           280
Trade Facilitation                                         0            5            5
6 ASYCUDA                                                   0           360          360
7 Petroleum Legislation Review                              0           340          340
8 Study of the Institutional Framework to support TT's      0            95           95
Overall Development Thrust
9 Preparation of the Bank's EMA Project                     0             6            6
10 Preparation of BERL project                               0             6            6
11 Property Tax Reform                                     132          1134         1266
12 Social Amelioration Proaram
Social Sector Expenditure Review                           0           54           54
Youth Trg and Employmnt Partnership Prog.                  0           38           38
Dev. of Soc Security System                                0           32           32
Survey of Living Conditions                                0          109          109
Social-Economic Implications of Econ Restr.                0           22           22
Dev of Labor Mkt Information System                        0           10           10
Total                                                  1772          3934         5706
a/ of which:
(Property Tax) Coordinator                              106
In House Petroleum Consultant                            21
In House Trade Consultant                                26
In House Public Utilities Consultant                     40
RSU Accounting Consultant                                 11
RSU Procurement Consultant                                18
Appendix C provides a comprehensive description of the objectives and outcome of each TAL
funded activity.



Page 1 of 2
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                            at Appraisal/Redefined                          Status      Impact of Study
1. Public     To support GORTT's efforts in diversifying the economy away from oil and    Completed    See Appendix C:
Enterprise    putting it on a path of sustainable growth by improving the efficiency of the     Description of
Sector        public enterprise sector, including the utilities; (i) Management and             Subprojects.
Organization Study; (ii) Legal & Institutional Framework Study; (iii) Wage
Employment, Policies and Practices Study; and (iv) PE Database/Performance
Monitoring and Evaluation System.
2. Management To prepare an action plan to improve: (a) financial self-sufficiency and  Completed    See Appendix C:
and           management; (b) administrative efficiency; (c) operational efficiency; (d) the    Description of
Operational    system of investment programming; and (e) rate-making capacity.                  Subprojects.
Audit of
T&TEC                                                                                                                   0o
3. A Study of   (a) To include the impact on domestic industries of removing licensing  Completed    See Appendix C:
the Borrower's  requirements for imports and of the practical significance of existing          Description of
Trade and     exemptions from import charges on the Borrower's competitiveness in regional      Subprojects.
Related       markets. (b) A study to estimate the direct and indirect content of indirect
Policies      taxes in domestic exports and to assess the need to introduce a system of
indirect tax rebate for exporters and formulate such system, if warranted.
4.Carrying out  Review of relevant petroleum legislation and regulations affecting the  Completed    See Appendix C:
a Review of    concessionary and other system of contracts, royalty payments, and petroleum     Description of
relevant      taxation to assess the Borrower's competitiveness for encouraging increased       Subprojects.
petroleum     private sector investment in the petroleum industry and making
legislation and  recommendations for improvement, where necessary.
regulations.
5.  Study of   (i) To ensure that there is an adequate network of business support services to   Completed    See Appendix C:
the           facilitate strong growth and diversification and to help producers meet the       Description of
Institutional    challenge resulting from having to break into international markets and operate  Subprojects.
Framework to  in a more oompetitive domestic environment. (ii) To ensure that the role of



Page 2 of 2
Purpose as Defined
Study                            at Appraisal/Redefined                           Status     Impact of Study
Support TT's   public institutions engaged in the provision of support services is brought in
Overall       line with the reorientation and restructuring of the economy.
Development
Thrust.
6. Property Tax  To design and develop a mass appraisal system intended to ensure the fair  Completed    See Appendix C:
Reform - Pilot  treatment of all properties based on the Improved Capital Value System of       Description of
Study-         Assessment (Market Value Approach) and put into place the necessary              Subprojects.
legislation, administrative machinery, computer systems and trained personnel
to sustain the new system.
7. Review      To improve the targeting and effectiveness of existing social services and the    Completed    See Appendix C:
Public         provision of a desirable minimum level of services, especially to the poor and   Description of
Expenditures    vulneiable groups.                                                              Subprojects.
on the Social                                                                                                           s
Sectors
8. The Survey   To formulate a system to generate information to assist the Borrower in  Completed    See Appendix C:
of Living      assessing programs designed to protect the poor and vulnerable groups on an      Description of
Conditions     ongoing basis.                                                                   Subprojects.
(SLC)
9. Report of the  To develop a framework including a financing plan, for further development of  Completed    See Appendix C:
Social Security  the social security system.                                                    Description of
System                                                                                          Subprojects.
10. Reviews of  To identify the impact of adjustment on the studied sectors and sensitize those   Completed.   See Appendix C:
the Social     involved in these non-social sectors on some of the important issues to be       Description of
Impact of      addressed.                                                                       Subprojects.
adjustment on
the utilities,
trade and
petroleum
sectors.



Table 8: Project Financing
Trinidad and Tobago - T.A.L. No. 8098
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/Latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs                    Costs    Costs
IDA                       0        4.0        4.0           0        4.0        4.0
Government              1.2          0        1.2         1.7          0        1.7
Total Project Costs     1.2        4.0        5.2         1.7        4.0        5.7
May 13, 1997



-31-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
For all projects, this table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into
the calculation of a re-estimated net present value (or economic rate of return) or, where
the net present value (or economic rate of return) was not estimated, of cost-effectiveness
in achieving project objectives.
N/A



Compliance with Loan/Credit Covenants
Page 1 of I
Table 10: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PROJECT NAME - LOAN/CREDIT NO. 3153-TR
OVERALL PROJECT RATING: 2
Comments
Agieeeknent   Section    Type Of     Status    Origin. Date   Rev. Date                    Detcription of Covenant
Covenant_t
Lowa or      2.01 (b)       1          C                                  The Borrower shall, open and maintain in dollars a special account
Credit 3153-                                                             in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
TR
3.03 (a)     5           C                                  The Borrower shall: submit quarterly reports to the Bank on the
progress of Project implementation beginning on March 31, 1990
3.03 (b)     9           C                                  The Borrower shall: submit annual evaluation reports on the Project
to the Bank no later than January 31 of each year for the preceding
calendar year.
3.04        5           C                                 The Borrower shall cause each of RSU and SSU to carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound
administrative and financial practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
.__________           in adequate numbers.
4.01        9           C                                 The Borrower shall: furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in   1995 Audit missing essential
(bXii)                                                     any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,    elements Borrower  w
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such    promised comprehensive
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.         Final 1996 Audit conforming
________________________________________________ to the Bank requireiments.
5.01 (a)     5            C                                 that the RSU and the SSU shall have been adequately staff wvith
their directors appointed and functioning and that the RSU and the
I_________ SSU are fully operational.
5.01 (b)      5       WAIVED   Effectiveness       9/90     that a management consulting firms shall have been appointed to  Borrower proved capable of
assist the Borrower in selecting and employing consultants for the    hiring consultants w/o
Ipurposes of carrying out the Project.                       assistance.
Tvpe ol Covenant                                                          Status
1: Accounting;                                                    C       .Covenant Complied with.
2: Financial Performance/revenue generation;                      CD      :Complied with after delay
3: Flow Utilization of Project funds;                             NC      :Not complied with
4: Counterpart fundmg;                                            SOON   :Compliance expected in reasonably short time
5: Management aspects of the project or executing agency;                 CP      :Complied with partially
6: Enviromental covenants;                                        NYD    Not yet due.
7. Involutary resettlement;
8: Indigenous people;                                             Covenenat Effectivness
9: Monitoring, review, and reporting;
10. Project Implementation not covered by categories 1-9;         1. Is the Selection of covenants appropriate? Hlave any proved to be ineffective or rfluous?
11: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation;  Selection appropriate. No covenenat has proved to bh ineffective o' superfluous
12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatorylmnstitutional action  2. Are there general problems or issues relating to compliance with covenants under the project?
13: Other                                                            No



-33-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title      I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No known lack of compliance, except as indicated in table 10
I



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SWS, Actual)
Trinidad and Tobago - T.A.L. No. 8098
Stage           89 1/   90 I/   91 1/   921Y 93 21   94 2/           95     96      97  Tota
Preparation          12       7                                                             19
Appraisal                     6                                                               6
Negotiations                 13                                                             13
Supervision                   6      14      10       3       2      10       9       9      63
Project Completion                                                                    9       9
(PCR/ICR)
TOTALS               12      32      14      10       3       2      10       9      18    110
Note: FY97 numbers include est. for May-June.
L. Marzan/K.Wai
May 16, 1997
1. These figures do not reflect full preparation and supervision time for the TAL, much of which was carried out in connection with the SAL.
2. Supervision time under-recorded. Actuals closer to 10-12 S/W per year.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Trinidad and Tobago - T.A.L. No. 8098
Performance Ratings
Stage of Project           Month/        No. of    Days in   Specialized staff   Impl.       Dev.
Cycle                   Year        Persons    Field   skills represented *    Status   Objectives  Types of Problems **
Identification                                  .
Preparation
Appraisal               May 1989             2         16        PF
Post Appraisal          July 1989            4         7         PF
Supervision
I             November 1990        2          5        PF                   2          2  _ 1, C, H, J
April/May 1991       2         5        PF                   2          2      E3, C, H, J
October 1991         1         5        PF                   2          2      B, C, H
IV            November 1992       11/         6        PF                   2          2      C, H
V              February 1994        2         5        PF                   S          S      E3, C, H
VI             March 1995           3         5        PF                   S          S      C, H
VIl           Jan./Feb. 1996        3         5        PF                   S          S      B, C
Completion              November 1996        4         5         PF                  S           S      B, C
* PF: Public Finance Spec
** Types of Problems:
a/ Counterpart Funds                     e/ Environment                         i/ WID Impact
b/ Project Management                   fV Environmental Plan                   J/ Monitoring and Evaluation
c/ Procurement                           g/ Financial Covenants
d/ Resettlement                          h/ Other Legal Covenants
K.Wai
May 16,1997
1/ Does not reflect 2 limited supervision missions [in 1993-941 which focused only on preparation of the Property Tax Study.



-36
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
RESTRUCTURING                                                  is O.      r,r "T UMhfllg 8n,
SUPPORT                                                        Pono              W.
TFI No.: (MD)  1M;U7W
UNIT                                                           Fa N@.: (30) 623051
Ref. No.
December 20, 1996
Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
LATPS
The World Banik Group
Washington, DC 20433
A11TTNTTON  Mfs Rita PgIi
Re: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (TAL 3153TR) AIDE IMEMOME
1.     With respect to the captioned subject plcase be advised that we have contacted all relevant
agencies for their comments on the Aide Memoire on the recently concluded Technical Assistance
Loan Al Mission (November 18 - 22, 1996).
2.     All agencies have indicated that the Aide Memoire adequately reflcct the discusr.ons
whichi took place during the Mission.
Regards,
'Direetor/RSL!
A '*.



-37-                       APPENDIX A
DECEMBER 20, 1996
AIDE MEMOIR
WORLD BANK TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(3153-TR) (TAL)
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs/Mme. Rita Parrilli, Jit Gill, Judy Baker,
and Kyaw Wai visited Trinidad from November 18 to 22 for the final review of TAL funded
activities and discussion of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be prepared by
the RSU/MOPAD and the Bank. The mission also focused on ongoing and recently
completed work on Property Tax Reform, Customs Administration and the Survey of Living
Conditions (SLC). Separate aide memoir are attached covering the SLC and Property Tax
work.
2.    The mission had fruitful discussions with the staff of the RSU, TAL beneficiary
agencies, and donors with an interest in the TAL (IDB and UNDP). The mission met with
the Ministers of Finance and Local Government on the Tax Reform and with the Minister of
Planning and Development for the general TAL wrap-up meeting and with officials of most
TAL implementing agencies. Representatives of the RSU participated in mission meetings
with TAL beneficiary agencies. The mission wishes to thank the Government of Trinidad and
Tobago and the RSU for their kind cooperation. This Aide Memoir records the views of the
RSU, the TAL agencies, and the Bank on project design, implementation and future
operation. It will be attached in its final form to the ICR.
3.    The Project. The US$4.0 million TAL was approved on January 4, 1990 and was
the first World Bank investment operation in Trinidad since 1979. It will close on December
31, 1996. A four month grace period follows for processing payments against services
rendered and equipment purchased prior to the closing date. As of November 15, 1996
approximately US$450,000 remained undisbursed in the loan account in Washington. Most
of these funds will be used for the final payment to NERA (Property Tax) and some would be
used for the second round of the SLC (US$18,000).
4.    Project Objectives. The TAL financed consultant services, training and equipment
assisted GOTT: (a) implement its medium term adjustment program; (b) strengthen social
sector policies and programs, including the design and preparation of programs to alleviate
the social costs of adjustment; and (c) prepare related adjustment programs and other
operations.
5.    Project Activities and Post-Project Follow-up. Major components, their
contractors, and financing from the TAL include:
(a)   Management and Operational Audit of T&TEC - Ernst and Young;



-38-                       APPENDIX A
(b)   Strengthening of the PSIP - Herbert Philips, Christopher Pope, R. J. Franklyn;
(c)   Trade Reform - Maxwell Stamp;
(d)   Review of Petroleum Legislation - Robert Pleasant Associates;
(e)   Assistance to the State Owned Enterprise Unit (SOEU) - Price Waterhouse,
Jamaica;
(f)   Study of the Institutional Framework to Support GORTT's Overall
Development Thrust (Rationalization of Central Government Entities); -
Deloitte Touche;
(g)   Property Tax Reform - National Economic Research Associates (NERA);
(h)   ASYCUDA - UNCTAD (technical assistance); and Fujitsu-ICL (equipment);
(i)   Preparation of the World Bank financed Environmental Management Project -
Shafeek Sultan-Kahn;
(j)   Preparation of the World Bank financed Business Enterprise Reform Loan -
Martin Hynes of the Irish Development Authority;
(k)   In-house Technical Specialists:
- Alexander Kemp - Petroleum
- Julio Berlinski - Trade
- George Braithwaite - Utilities
- Jagdeesh Siewrattan - Property Tax Coordinator
(1)   Assistance to the Social Sector Unit (SSU) in carrying out:
(i)   The Survey of Living Conditions - ECLAC (Derek Gordon and Ralph
Henry)
(ii)   A Review of the Social Security System - ILO
(iii)  A Social Sector Expenditure Review - ECLAC (Patrick Kendall)
(iv)  Preparation of the Youth Training and Employment Partnership
Programme - Education and Training Loan 3228-TR (YTEPP)
(including work on AIM, ECHO, AND YESS), NIHURST
(v)   Development of a Labor Market Information System - ILO
(vi)  Reviews of the Social Impact of Adjustment in the Utilities,
Petroleum, and Trade Sectors - ECLAC (Joan Neal)



-39-                       APPENDIX A
TAL ACTIVITIES IN PROGRESS
6.    Survey of Living Conditions (SLC). The MOPAD Minister reiterated support for
carrying out the second round of the SLC to be financed in part from the TAL. The first
round was carried out in May-June 1992 and was beneficial for assessing poverty levels and
evaluating the impact of government programs on the population. In accordance with the
attached Aide Memoire from Judy Baker's October 29-31 mission, TAL funds would also be
available to be used through December 31, 1996 for preparatory work for the second round of
the SLC. In the past month the questionnaire has been revised, though plans for
implementation of the survey have not been finalized.
7.   It is understood that the total cost of the second round of the SLC would be on the
order of US$40,000 of which US$18,000 is available from the TAL. The RSU will confirm
with the Socio-Economic Policy Planning Division of MOPAD: (i) the amount that might be
used through December 31; and (ii) that the balance of US$22,000 needed to complete the
$40,000 will be available from sources other than the TAL. The Bank will need to receive a
reoulest for "no objection" for the use of the US 18,000 (or whatever amount is determined by
MOPAD/RSU) as soon as possible. Ms. Baker also discussed details of a possible grant for
strengthening the capacity to institutionalize the SLC and would now be able to proceed
preparation of the grant proposal. A formal request for the grant will be required in the
future.
8.    ASYCUDA. The ASYCUDA system has been installed at seven sites as planned.
All sites have been networked through leased lines and dial-up links. All the modules of the
ASYCUDA system, except for the Inventory Control (Manifest) module are being used. The
system is understood to have generally reduced processing time for declarations. However,
further improvements are possible once the error rate in declarations submitted by brokers
(currently around 55%) is reduced. The system is also generating useful data which is being
supplied to the MOF, CSO, the Central Bank, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Tourism and
Industrial Development Company and some private parties as well. Legislative changes are
said to be needed to introduce the Inventoly Control Module, introduce Direct Trader Input
(DRI) and strengthen sanctions for errors in declarations.
9.    The Customs and Excise Division(CED) will continue to make incremental
improvements in the existing system and may install UNCTAD's improved (Plus Plus)
system in 1998. This system comes with a relational data base as part of the platform, has a
windows driven environment, and a risk assessment module that would further cut processing
time. Consideration would have to be given to the cost of new software, replacement of
existing equipment, and training.
10.   Property Tax Reform. Please see the attached aide memoir.



-40-                       APPENDIX A
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
11. Both the RSU and the SSU made commendable progress in overcoming early
SAL/TAL implementation delays. They were able to recruit a large number of qualified
individuals and firms, in part because a decision was taken to modify normal administrative
CTB procedures and use the most efficient recruitment methods.
12.   Outstanding Project Administration Issues.
(a)   Special Account. The recovery of the special account has begun and the
account will no longer be replenished. The RSU is helping to clarify issues
that have arisen on operation of the special account related to other Bank
operations. The RSU Chief Accountant will discuss the advantages of having
a special account and address the issues set forth in the letter of November 2,
1996 of the PS, Ministry of Public Administration and Information to the
Bank. The Bank will be advised of any unresolved issues.
(b)   AudAi. The RSU will respond to the Bank's letter of July 8, 1996 concerning
the 1995 audit, which, like the 1994 audit, is missing separate audit opinions
on the status of the Schedule of Statement of expenditures (SOEs), Statement
of the Special Account, Internal Control of the RSU, and Compliance of RSU
with the loan agreement. The mission met with the staff of the Office of the
Auditor-General to review the missing audit elements. Following consultation
with the Bank's Audit Advisor, the mission agreed that the Bank would accept
the 1995 audit report as is (if so requested by the RSU) with the understanding
that the 1996 audit will include the missing information.
(c)   Recovery of Funds from UNCTAD. The RSU will need to estimate (in
consultation with Customs Authority) the portion of the $66,000 on deposit
with UNCTAD that is likely to be used prior to December 1996. The unspent
balance will need to be recovered from UNDP and returned to the loan
account.
(d) ICR Tables. The RSU will provide the Bank with the following information
by end-December 1996 the costing of the project activities (para. 5) broken
down by consultants, equipment, goods and the source of funding (TAL or
GORTT).
THE WORLD BANK VIEW OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
13.   The project achieved its major SAL-related objectives. The measures required to
secure second tranch release of the SAL were met in large measure with TAL financed
assistance. The RSU and the SSU were fully effective in fulfilling their mandate of
facilitating implementation of the government's economic restructuring program, including



-41-                        APPENDIX A
activities related to the SAL and TAL and ensuring that recommendations emerging from
these activities were reviewed by appropriate government authorities and implemented within
the time frame agreed by Cabinet, especially with a view to securing second tranch SAL
release. The six TAL supported areas on the critical path for securing second tranche TAL
release were completed due in large part to the excellent management of the RSU and SSU
(T&TEC, PSIP, Trade, Petroleum, Customs, and Social Amelioration).
14.   The Restructuring Support Unit (RSU), which was responsible for the preparation
and implementation of adjustment related activities, remains the only repository in
Government of staff well-versed in project implementation, including Bank procurement,
contracting, disbursement and audit requirements. The previous RSU team was responsible
for considerable project savings due to skilled management. This skill built up reserves of
funds which in turn provided sufficient resources for the Phase I Pilot Property Tax Study.
15.   The Social Sectors Unit (SSU) was established to design, prepare and implement
programs to cushion the impact of adjustment and improve targeting and effectiveness of
social programs. Prior to its dissolution in May 1992, the SSU completed the activities listed
above. While the specific impact of each activity will be reviewed in more detail in the ICR,
several general conclusions emerged during the mission. The work carried out by the SSU
successfully met its intended objective. All studies were found to be generally useful and in
many areas have led to specific programs and policy changes. The creation of the SSU
played an important role in focusing Government attention on social policy issues which has
continued despite the disbanding of the Unit in 1992. Unfortunately, some of the
coordinating and leadership roles that the SSU played were lost after 1992, which may have
reduced the full impact that the studies potentially could have had. Nevertheless, the SSU
was critical in building momentum. The fact that the Unit was outside the bureaucracy, and
that some of the normal procedural constraints of government were lifted expedited
implementation. The Unit was particularly strong at pulling together several ministries for
consultation on specific activities which had previously not been customary within the public
sector.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES' VIEW
16.   The mission was able to meet with all TAL beneficiary agencies except T&TEC. In
general, the beneficiary agencies expressed their satisfaction with the assistance provided
under the TAL. In many cases, transfer of technology and know-how from the consultants
helped to strengthen local capacity during critical periods in the governments adjustment.
Most agencies expressed their satisfaction with the consultants' work. This satisfaction
stemmed from: (i) the quality of the services rendered; (ii) the transfer of knowledge; (iii) the
basis it formed for future activities. The sustainability in a few cases (e.g. PSIP) is
questionable. The section on lessons learned incorporates some of the insights of the
MOPAD Minister and the beneficiary agencies.



-42-                        APPENDIX A
17.   Some Lessons Learned.
(a)   Relatively small amounts of loan funds can have a catalytic effect when used
for assistance in key areas;
(b)   Public sector salaries sufficient to attract and retain qualified staff is the
essential prerequisite for sustainability of TA (PSIP, ASYCUDA, Property
Tax);
(c)   Recognizing that consultants might be called upon to assume "hands on"
work, especially when the public service is depleted, the consultant's TOR
should ensure that their operational workload is reduced over time as
counterparts assume increasing responsibility;
(d)   Counterparts should know from the outset that they will be responsible for
assuming the consultant's functional responsibilities upon completion of the
consultant's assignment;
(e)   Depending on the nature of the assignment, the consultant's TOR might
provide for him to return for brief periods intermittently following completion
of the assignment to adjust, support, and possibly revise his recommendations;
(f)    The Bank might provide more guidance on the Management of Technical
Assistance, per (c) and (d) above.
PREPARATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
18.   The Bank's ICR Guidelines and sample ICRs were left with the RSU during the
February 1996 mission. The retrospective as well as prospective approach to the ICR were
reviewed. The RSU committed to assigning two staff for the completion of the
Government's evaluation of the TAL by end-January 1997. The Bank's draft ICR will be
sent for review and comment of the GOTT by end February 1997.
19.   NEXT STEPS
Completed Activities
(a)   Since the mission was unable to meet with T&TEC and information on the
outcome of the SOE Study was not available at the time of the mission, the
RSU will follow-up with the Investments Division and T&TEC2 to get their
The Public Enterprise Sector Study carried out by Price Waterhouse included: (a) Management and
Organization Study; (b) Legal and Institutional Framework Study; (c) Study of Wage and Employment
Policies and Practices of Public Enterprises; and (d) Public Enterprise Database/Performance Monitoring
and Evaluation System



-43-                        APPENDIX A
views on the usefulness of the TAL assistance, including outcome and impact
and related ongoing and future activities;
Activities in Progress
(b)   Property Tax - See attached aide memoir
(c)   The Bank's "no objection" will be sought for use of the remaining $18,000 (or
a portion thereof) for the SLC;
(d)   The RSU will confirm that the balance of approximately US$22,000 needed to
complete the SLC will be available;
(e)   The Bank will prepare a request for an IDF grant for institutionalization of the
SLC;
(f)    The RSU will follow-up with the CED on status of preparing legislation to
introduce the Inventory Control Module and plans for future upgrades
(including UNCTAD's Plus Plus);
(g)   The RSU will follow-up with the CED before in early December to get a
realistic plan of action for activities to take place under the UNCTAD contract
prior to December 31, 1996;
(h)   The RSU will follow-up in early 1997 with UNCTAD to recover any part of
the $66,000 not used up to December 31, 1996 for the ASYCUDA;
(i)    The RSU will send the Bank project cost information required for ICR tables
by end-December 1996;
(j)    The RSU will send to the Bank the Government's evaluation of the TAL by
end-January 1997;
(k)   The Bank will send for review and comment the Bank's portion of the ICR by
end-February 1997;
Administration
(1)    The RSU will respond in early December to the Bank's letter of July 8, 1996
on Audit and undertakes to work with the Office of the Auditor General in
2The Management and Operational Audit of T&TEC carried out by Ernst and Young focused on: (a)
improving the system of expansion planning; (b) improving T&TEC's rate making capacity; (c) assessing
operational and maintenance practices; (d) recommending legislation for revaluation of assets.



-44-                       APPENDIX A
ensuring that the 1996 Project Audit (the Final Audit) includes information
missing from the 1995 and 1995 audits;
(m)  The RSU will advise the Bank of any unresolved special account issues
related to other Bank operations;
(n)   The loan closes December 31, 1996;
(o)   The RSU will submit to the Bank before April 30, 1997 requests for payment
of all final bills for services rendered or equipment purchased prior to
December 31, 1996;
(p)   The project account closes on April 30, 1997.



-45-                       APPENDIXA
Attachment 1
DECEMBER 20, 1996
AIDE MEMOIR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN/PROPERTY TAX STUDY
20.   The consultants National Economic Research Associates (NERA) and its joint
venture partners have completed Phase I of the property tax reform initiative. Working on
pilot areas of Arima and the Pt. Lisas Industrial Estate, the consultants have developed a
Geographical Information System (GIS), a Computer Aided Mass Appraisal (CAMA)
System, a Property Tax Assessment and Collection System and other related computer
systems. The valuation system is based on Improved Capital Value (Market Value
Approach) proposed to be adopted in Trinidad and Tobago in place of the Annual Rental
Value (ARV) that is currently in use. The consultants have also diagnosed the organizational
and human resources problems affecting the effectiveness of the Valuation Division and the
property tax collection agencies and have made recommendations for strengthening these
agencies. In addition, the consultants have examined the laws relating to property tax and
have recommended various amendments. Training in the new system has been provided to
staff of the Valuation Division and other agencies.
Timeliness of Strategic Decisions
21.   With the completion of Phase I, GOTT needs to take important policy decisions
regarding the next phase of the reform. These decisions need to be taken urgently in order to
maintain the momentum generated by Phase I; ensure that training provided to government
staff in the use of the sophisticated systems is not lost due to lack of application of the skills
learned; and the investment made in Phase I bears fruit. In addition, if the Govenment
wishes to fund Phase II from the proposed World Bank Public Administration Reform Loan.
a decision to do so will have to be taken prior to project praisal scheduled for
January/February 1997.
22.   The property tax reform initiative involves at least three ministries: Planning and
Development (MOPAD), Finance (MOF), and Local Government (MOLG). The issues to be
decided would need inputs from all three ministries. Also, given the politically sensitive
nature of the reform, high level guidance may be needed from the Prime Minister. In order to
ensure that the required decisions are taken quickly and in a coordinated manner, the Mission
suggested holding a one day Retreat attended by the Prime Minister, the Ministers and
Permanent Secretaries of MOPAD, MOF and MOLG. the CFTC Property Tax Adviser, the
RSU and possibly NERA to discuss the main issues and take joint decisions on the strategy.
scope, timing, cost and financing for Phase II, as well as organizational restructuring and
salary issues mentioned below.



-46-                       APPENDIX A
Attachment I
Dealing with Institutional Weaknesses
23.   A number of institutional weaknesses of the Valuation Division and property tax
collecting agencies were identified during Phase I, as indicated in NERA's draft final report.
Many of these, such as organizational restructuring and revising salary levels to enable
attracting and retaining staff with the required skills and training, require action by GOTT.
Others may require additional consultancy inputs during Phase II. It would be useful to
begin considering the consultants' Phase I recommendations in depth to identify areas where
action can be initiated immediately, without waiting for Phase II. This approach would
prepare the entities concerned for assimilating the outputs emerging out of Phase II and put
the new systems to effective use. For this purpose, GOTT may consider setting up a Task
Force to consider Organization and Management and Personnel Management issues
pertaining to property valuation and taxation and to present Government with policy options
to solve the current problems by the end of the first quarter of CY97.
Legislationfor Improving and Strengthening Property Tax Administration.
24.   The consultants are understood to have analyzed the prevailing laws impacting on
property taxation, both from the perspective of introducing the Improved Capital Value
system and improving the processes of valuation, assessment, collection and appeals. Based
on the recommendations of the consultants, it should now be possible to consider
amendments to the Land and Buildings Act and the Municipal Corporations Act so as to lay a
firm basis for the reforms. While the timing of passage of the legislation can be considered
in the light of the schedule for Phase II and other factors, it would possible and desirable at
this stage to consider their recommendations. identify those that are acceptable to
government and begin drafting of the amendments.
Technical Issues Concerning Phase II.
25.   Two issues came to the fore during the Mission's discussions with NERA consultants
and GOTT staff.
(a)   Need for Coordination with Lands and Surveys Department (LSD). LSD has,
apparently, not been closely involved in Phase I. At a mission meeting
attended by a representative of the LSD, it was mentioned that the LSD would
need to be satisfied about the quality standards applied by the property tax
project in developing country-wide maps for tax purposes. He also indicated
that the Department is planning to develop a Cadastral Mapping System, with
the assistance of the IDB, and it would be desirable if both projects follow the
same BASE MAPS. This raised the question as to who should develop the
base maps: the LSD or the property tax project? This could have serious
implications for the timing and content of Phase II. It is, therefore, important



-47-                        APPENDIX A
Attachment 1
that close coordination between the LSD and the project be established and the
issues of quality control and base map development be resolved expeditiously.
Xk).   Technology Architecture for the CAMA, Assessment. Collection and Appeals
Systems: The above-mentioned systems are DOS based systems with a flat-
file architecture. The screens are a series of forms in which data is entered
field by field. Unlike most new systems, these systems do not have a
Relational Database. This is likely to affect the ease and speed of accessing
data, flexibility in generating customized reports and the efficiency of the
interface of these systems with the GIS. Further, the systems do not have a
Graphical User Interface (GUI). This makes them less user-friendly and
intuitive. The lack of these features. which are taken for granted in
contemporary systems. raises the issue whether the system architecture is
appropriate for Trinidad and Tobago's future needs. This issue needs to be
resolved before proceeding with Phase II. In case the system architecture is
found to be unsatisfactory, options for upgrading the system developed in
Phase I, or switching over to an alternative system need to be considered. It
might be useful to have a Systems Expert take a look at the systems and
advise the governent on the issue.
26. CRITICAL ACTIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS
(a)   Getting the support of the Top Level of Government for Phase II before end-
1996, especially given the costs of the loss of momentum:
* The effect of training received in Phase I will wear off if the skills learned
are not used
*  Systems developed in Phase I will fall by the way side and the investment
to date would have been wasted
*  Collateral benefits to CSO, WASA, T&TEC, Education, Health, Police
will be lost
*  The benefits of the guidance of the CFTC Property Tax Adviser, who
completes his assignment in January 1997, will be lost
*  Financing from proposed World Bank Public Sector Strengthening Loan
will no longer be available following appraisal
(b)   Confronting institutional weaknesses to enable use of the new systems:
*  Getting the organizational structure right
*  Placement of Valuation Division: in MOPAD or MOF?
*  Getting the salaries right to attract/retain qualified staff
*  Identifying possible sources of new staff (universities, private sector?)
*  Recruiting required number of persons with the required skills.



-48-                        APPENDIX A
Attachment 1
* If they are to be trained, how long will this take? What would be the
implication for the duration of Phase II. Should it be stretched out to
allow enough time for training?
(c)   Establishing the Legislative Framework
* Study Completed, most legal issues identified
* Start drafting amendments
(d)   Base Maps: Coordination between Lands and Surveys Department and NERA
*  LSD would need to be satisfied about the quality of Base Map
*  Should LSD prepare the Base Map and deliver to NERA or,
* Should Base Maps be prepared by NERA and given to LSD for adding
further details?
(e)   CAMA Technology
*  Hire Systems Expert to recommend options for system upgrade
(f)   NEXT STEPS
* Retreat with PM, MOPAD, MOF, Minister of Local Government, RSU,
NERA Consultants, CFTC Adviser
* Extend Services CFTC Property Tax Adviser
* Take a decision of Phase II financing options
E Hire Systems Expert
* Appoint a Task Force to focus on Organizational and HR issues and
facilitate decisions
* Proceed with legislation
* Launch a Public Relations Campaign



- 49 -                  APPENDIX A
Attachment 2
Aide Memoire
Survey of Living Conditions Mission, World Bank
Trinidad and Tobago, October 29-31, 1996
1.    As part of the supervision of the Technical Assistance Loan (TAL, 3153-TR) Ms
Judy Baker, World Bank, met with representatives of the Ministry of Planning and
Development (MOPAD) and the Central Statistical Office (CSO) to discuss plans for the
implementation of a second round of the Survey of Living Conditions (SLC).
2.    Under the remaining funds in the TAL (which will close at the end of 1996)
US$20,000 has been allocated to assist in financing the implementation of a Survey of
Living Conditions. The purpose of this survey is to provide the Government of Trinidad
and Tobago information on living conditions in the country and to evaluate the impact of
current policies and programs on the welfare of the population.
3.    Plans for the SLC have been developed by an advisory conmmittee comprised of
representatives from the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPAD), the Central
Statistical Office, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, the Central Bank, and the
University of the West Indies. The draft questionnaire, budget and plans for field work
prepared by the team, and institutional arrangements were discussed in detail. The
findings are highlighted below.
Ouestionnaire
4.    There was agreement that the draft questionnaire generally provided an
appropriate survey instrument for gathering the type of inforrnation which would be useful
for future policy planning, purposes.   There was general agreement on several
recommendations for inclusion such as the addition of specific questions on social welfare
programs, training prozrams, determination of public versus private access to health and
education services and expenditures on these items, information related to access to credit,
and finally, the inclusion of a full consumption expenditure section such as that designed in
1992 (with the omission of block expenditure items) to ensure that a consumption
expenditure variable could be appropriately constructed.  It was highlighted that this
would be needed for measuring welfare and for carrying out incidence analysis. The need
for detailed coded responses for specific questions was also highlighted to ensure the
minimization of errors in data collection. There was also discussion about the inclusion of
a community-level questionnaire.
5     Several ministries expressed concern over the accessibility of the data for more in-
depth analysis. It was recommended that a policy be pursued, as in most other countries,
whereby the data base would be made available to other Ministries immnediately, and to the
public (including researchers, the UWI, NGO and private sector) following the publication
of a statistical abstract by the MOPAD within a designated time period following data
collection (e.g. 3-4 months).



APPENDIX A
50 -                  Attachment 2
6.    It was agreed that a final draft questionnaire would be completed by the Ministry
of Planning (with input from the technical team as necessary) by approximately November
15, 1996 and forwarded to the CSO for appropriate design for field implementation. It
was recommended that a copy of the questionnaire be reviewed by the data programmer
from CSO who will be working on the SLC, and that the programmer be included in any
further discussions regarding the survey design.
Field work
7.    While the Ministry of Planning and Development would be taking the lead role in
coordinating the SLC, the CSO would be the primary institution for implementing the field
work. This would include designing the sample frame, identifying appropriate field staff
(enumerators and supervisors), training the field staff (including working with MOPAD on
traiinig manuals), piloting the questionnaire, managing the field work, data coding, data
editing and data entry. Data coding, editing and entry would be carried out at the
Restructuring Support Unit given their hardware and space facilities. MOPAD would
take responsibility for directly contracting the individuals needed for carrying out the
survey (enumerators, supervisors, nurses for the anthropometric component, data
controllers and data entry operators). While the CSO expressed their full support and
interest in assisting through providing available personnel for carrying out the survey, this
may be difficult given their heavy workload. It is therefore recommended that a well-
experienced manager is hired for the survey. This would also provide training to the
existing staff in MOPAD and CSO in the management of this type of survey work.
8.    The timing of the SLC was discussed at length. A realistic assessment concluded
that the preparatory work for implementing the survey would require several additional
weeks. With the extreme seasonal variations surrounding Christmas and Carnival, it was
concluded that the SLC field work should not be implemented until after Carnival (in
March-April). It was highliahted, however, to utilize TAL funds, the work would need to
be contracted by the closina date of December 31, 1996 so that all final payment would be
completed by April 30, 1997. This will present a budgetary shortfall which is discussed
below. A tentative schedule was worked out as follows:
Finalize Questionnaire                        Nov. 4-15, 1996
Presentational design of Questionnaire        Nov. 15-30, 1996
Training for pilot test                       Dec. 2-6, 1996
Pilot test                                    Dec. 9-13, 1996
Revise questionnaire                          Dec. 15-20, 1996
Printing of Questionnaire                     Dec. 20-31, 1996
Finalizing plans for field work/hiring interviewers  January i-3 1, 1997
Training of Supervisors and Interviewers      February 10-22, 1997
Field Work                                    February 24-April 18, 1997
Data coding, editing, entry                   March 10-April 30, 1997
Data analysis                                 May 1-June 30, 1997



APPENDIX A
- 51 -                         Attachment 2
Data analvsis
9.     The analysis of the data would be carried out by MOPAD and CSO. MOPAD
would identify a list of tabulations to be prepared by CSO as soon as the data set would be
complete. MOPAD would then prepare a statistical abstract for dissemination with some
technical assistance. Funding for this technical assistance has not been identified, though it
was.recognized that this is an area where MOPAD would require strengthening.
Budzet
10.   The estimated cost of the SLC will exceed the amount available under the TAL
before December 31, 1996. The total budget is estimated as follows:
Training and hiring for pilot test                   US$  900
Printing of Questionnaires and manuals               US$ 1,500
Data collection and Anthropometry                    US$20,000
22 Interviewers ( TT$2547 each
5 supervisors (. STT361 each
4 anthropometrists @TT1,038 each
1 anthropometrist (Tobago) @ $TT 1019
4 anthropometrist supervisors @ STT2689
1 anthropometrist supervisor (Tobago) @ $TT1344
Travel, $TT18,800
Travel and accommnodation (Tobago), $TT7000
Data editing, coding                                 US$ 1,300
Data entry, EDP systems                              US$ 2,850
Materials (Diskettes and Supplies)                   US$ 300
Printing of statistical abstract                     US$ 1,500
Hiring of SLC manager                                US$ 8,000
Hiring of Analyst to produce SLC report              US$ 8,000
Training of staff                                    US$18,000
Total                                                US$62,350
Outstandins issues
11.   In order to approve the use of TAL funds for the SLC it will be necessary to
identify resources for the budget shor-Lafl. It would also be necessary to identify which
preparation activities could be completed before the December 3 1, 1996 closing date of
the TAL. The mission requests that a decision be forwarded to the World Bank on this
matter as soon as possible. The mission would also explore the possibility of additional
funding through a World Bank Institutional Development Fund (IDF) thouah a response
on ihis would not be likely before the end of 1996.



- 52 -                         APPENDIX A
Attachment 2
12.   For the longer term sustainability of the analysis of the SLC, it will be important to
clarify the GOTT policy on data access. The mission recommends a policy similar to most
countries in the Region, whereby the data base is made publicly available following the
production of a statistical abstract by the MOPAD.
Nov ember 1, 1996
Port of Spain, Trinidad



-53-                         APPENDIX B
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Project Context
1.    Between 1982 and 1987, the Trinidad and Tobago economy registered six (6) consecutive
years of negative economic growth which was characterised by high unemployment rates, a
reduction in earnings from the petroleum sector and a significant reduction in imports. During
1984 - 1985 attempts were made to adjust the economy, but a reduction in crude oil prices,
negated the effect created by these improvements. In 1987 the Government which assumed
office in 1986, undertook further efforts to stabilise the economy, taking into consideration the
weak international petroleum market. A planning framework which was developed included a
medium-term economic programme (1989 - 1991) and detailed the major reforms and polices to
be pursued within that three (3) year period. The centerpiece of that reform effort was a
structural adjustment programme which focussed on implementing sound, sustainable measures
to assist the country in returning to a growth path. It is within this context that the Government
of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT) approached the World Bank for the Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) and its related Technical Assistance Loan (TAL 3153TR).
2.    On January 25, 1990, a loan agreement was signed between the GORTT and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank) providing for a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 3152TR) of US $40 million to be disbursed in two (2) equal
tranches. With the assistance of the World Bank, arrangements were also made for an equivalent
amount of co-financing by the Export-Import Bank of Japan. At the same time, the GORTT
entered into an agreement with the World Bank for a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL 3153TR)
of US $4.0 million equivalent to fund the procurement of consultancy services, institutional
strengthening, procurement of equipment and various activities in support of the structural
adjustment process.
H.   Project Objectives and Description
3.    Project Objectives.  The main objective of the Technical Assistance Loan (TAL
3153TR) was to assist the GORTT in the implementation of its medium term adjustment
programme. Other objectives included the need to strengthen the social sector policies and
programmes in order to alleviate the social costs of adjustment. The TAL was also designed to
assist in the preparation of related adjustment programmes and other operations.
4.    Project Components. The Project originally consisted of two (2) parts, viz: Part A -
Economic Restructuring Programme; and Part B - Social Sector Programme including activities
directly in support of the TAL as follows:
5.    Part A: Economic Restructuring Programme, consisting of: (i) assistance to the
Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) in co-ordinating and implementing the medium-term
adjustment programme of the GORTT; (ii) assistance to the State-Owned Enterprises (SOE) Unit
in implementing the State-Owned Enterprises Divestment and Rationalisation Programme and
carrying out studies for the purpose of preparing related SOE and private sector development



-54-                         APPENDIX B
operations; (iii) carrying out a Management and Operations Audit of the Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commission (T&TEC) and assistance in the preparation and implementation of an
action plan to improve financial self-sufficiency and management, administrative efficiency;
operational efficiency and its system of investment programming and its rate-making capacity;
(iv) training overseas of selected staff of the T&TEC; (v) strengthening of the investment project
preparation capability of the then Ministry of Planning and Mobilisation (MOPAM) within the
context of the Public Sector Investment Programme (PSIP) and assisting in preparing projects
well linked to sector strategies; (vi) carrying out of Trade and Related Policies Studies, as well
as, Industrial Restructuring Operations; (vii) assistance in the preparation of action plans to carry
out trade reforms; and (viii) carrying out a review of Petroleum Legislation and Regulations
affecting private sector investment, with the aim of increasing private sector investment in the
Petroleum Industry.
6.    Part B: Social Sector Programme, namely: (i) assistance to the Social Sectors Unit
(SSU) to support the efforts of the GORTT in strengthening social policies and programmes and
mitigating the social costs of the medium-term adjustment programme; (ii) carrying out a review
of public expenditure on the Social Sectors; (iii) the preparation of an operation to strengthen the
employment prospects of the unemployed youth; (iv) formulation a system to generate
information to assist the GORTT in assessing programmes designed to protect the poor and
vulnerable groups; (v) development of a framework for the social security system; and (vi)
preparation of an action plan relating to the above-mentioned activities.
7.    The TAL also provided for the acquisition and utilisation of office equipment, including
computer hardware and software; and the carrying out of additional studies, training, technical
assistance and equipment acquisition and utilisation required to fulfill the objectives of both parts
of the Project.
8.    Allocation of Uncommitted Balance.  In order for the Borrower to achieve its
objectives, some modification of the original programme was necessary and was was agreed to
by Cabinet in May 1995, and subsequently agreed to between the GORTT and the Bank. In
April 1994, as the expiration of the TAL became imminent, it was observed that there was an
uncommitted balance of US $1.7m and it was unrealistic to utilise these funds before the closing
date of June 30, 1994. A request was made to the World Bank in April 1994 for an extension of
the closing date to December 31, 1995. The GORTT undertook a decision to allocate the balance
of the loan as follows: (i) carrying out of a pilot project for undertaking a Valuation of properties
in respect of the Reform of Property Taxation; (ii) the expansion of the Automated System for
Customs Data (ASYCUDA); (iii) contribution to partial funding of the second round of the
Survey of Living Conditions (SLC); (iv) extension of the contract of a Special Advisor to the
Minister of Planning and Development; (v) a study to review the Institutional Framework to
support Trinidad and Tobago's Overall Development Thrust; and (vi) unallocated contingencies.
9.    Following a Bank Mission in March 1995, it was recognised that in order to facilitate the
implementation of the pilot exercise of the Property Taxation Reform Project, a further extension
was requested and the closing date of the TAL was extended to December 31, 1996.



-55-                         APPENDIX B
III.  Project Cost and Financing
10.   Total project cost of the TAL was estimated at US $5.2m equivalent, of which the World
Bank loan would finance 77% of total costs, or US $4.Om equivalent, and the Government's
contribution would be 23% or US $1.2m equivalent.
IV.   The Role of the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) and Social Sectors Unit (SSU)
11.   The main functions of the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) were to carry out project
management activities related to the implementation of the programme of medium-term
structural adjustment. More specifically, the RSU was assigned responsibilities for coordinating,
implementing and monitoring performance on certain aspects of the Government's economic
restructuring programme. In particular, the RSU monitored and reported to the Bank on several
performance criteria related specifically to the conditionalities of T&TEC and WASA as
stipulated under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 3152TR). Additionally, through the
TAL, the RSU was required to ensure that certain consultancies in furtherance of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Programme were implemented on schedule and
satisfactorily.
12.  In order to access the second tranche resources of the SAL, Trinidad and Tobago was
required to satisfy specific conditionalities. The RSU was mandated to monitor and provide
project support to ensure compliance by those Government agencies which were required to
fulfill specific policy obligations.
13.   Due to expertise in project management developed by the RSU over the past seven (7)
years, the RSU has been able to effectively discharge its responsibilities with respect to the TAL.
The RSU remains the longest surviving Project Managment Unit of Government which has
developed considerable experience in project management, specifically procurement of
Consultants and Goods and Services, as well as direct responsibility for disbursement activities
and financial reporting in accordance with World Bank and IDB guidelines. This expertise has
afforded the RSU the opportunity to provide training, assistance and guidance to numerous
agencies in establishing similar Units in other Ministries. Additionally, the RSU model has
been replicated for other government loan projects.
14.   The objective of the establishment of the Social Sectors Unit (SSU) was to ameliorate
the social costs of adjustment. The Unit was established to support the Government of the
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago's efforts to strengthen social policies and programmes
including those aimed at mitigating the social costs of the medium term adjustment programme.
The Unit's specific tasks included inter alia,  liaising with the RSU to ensure the
contemporaneous consideration of social costs and implications in the design and
implementation of the specific measures to be introduced under the economic reform
programme.
15.  In addition to helping prepare the Youth Training and Employment Partnership
Programme (YTEPP) supported by the Bank, work was completed on the Social Sector



-56-                         APPENDIX B
Expenditure Review, the development of a Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) , Review of the
Social Security System, the development of a Labour Market Information System (LMIS), and
reviews of the social impact of adjustment in the utilities, petroleum and trade sectors. Details of
these activities are provided in Section V-B.  The Unit was also  responsible for sourcing
consultants, providing office accommodation and support services and the acquisition of
computer equipment for the development of a computerised information system to permit
continuous review of these systems.
16.   The Unit was disbanded before it had fulfilled its mandate to develop action plans, assist
in the adoption of recommendations and assist in the institutionalising of the various projects.
The rationale used in the disbanding of the SSU was that all elements of the SAL were
substantially completed and it became necessary to house the activities initiated by the SSU
within the appropriate line Ministries for e.g. The Labour Market Information System (LMIS)
which was shifted to the Ministry of Labour, the ECHO programme (now SHARE) which is now
administered by the Ministry of Social Development.
V.   Project Implementation and Results
A.   Economic Restructuring Programme
17.   The component related to assistance to the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) in co-
ordinating and implementing the medium term adjustment programme referred to the
procurement of technical expertise to facilitate the implementation of the programme. It was
originally envisaged that a project management firm would be contracted to undertake project
management on the project. The GORTT opted instead to develop expertise in-house by
sourcing advisory services from World Bank Procurement Specialist who imparted significant
technical expertise to the staff at the RSU, particularly at the early stages of the TAL. Further
support was provided, to develop in-house expertise, on a need basis, by contracting occasionally
a number of Individual Specialists/Consultants, for example, a Trade Facilitation Adviser; a
Trade In-House Specialist; an In-House Petroleum Adviser; a Metrology Adviser; a Co-ordinator
for the establishment of the Environmental Management Authority (EMA); and an Accounting
Consultant. The details are as follows:
18.   Due to a considerable backlog of accounting work at the RSU, increased accounting
responsibilities associated with the achievement of loan effectiveness for the Business Expansion
and Industrial Restructuring Loan (BEIRL 3432TR), together with the long-standing vacant
position of Accountant, and the poor staffing situation of the RSU, it became necessary to
contract an Accounting Consultant. The purpose of this consultancy was to strengthen the
accounting capability of the RSU in order to fulfill GORTT's obligation under the TAL and
BEIRL Programmes.
19.   The Accounting Consultant was utilised in the absence of support staff to assist the
Director in responding to information from both the World Bank and other agencies, and to
provide assistance in the day-to-day accounting functions of the RSU.



-57-                         APPENDIX B
20.   On November 2, 1992, a Consultant was contracted to serve as Project Co-ordinator
and catalyst to establish the EMA. The aim of this appointment was to assist the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MOPAD) in expediting the establishment of the proposed EMA
with the necessary legislation, human resources capability, equipment and institutional
arrangements in place to implement the GORTT's environmental policy and management.
21.   The Co-ordinator was required to carry out the following tasks: (i) co-ordinate and
manage the various activities related to the establishment and operation of the EMA; and (ii)
oversee activities essential to the establishment, operationalisation and organisational
development of the EMA, including detailing the agency's institutional, financial, technical and
managerial requirements.
22.   The Consultant produced a Policy Brief for the establishment of an EMA and a Final
Report for the establishment of an EMA including a Management Action Plan for its
establishment. The Consultant's contract came to an end on November 30, 1993 and his Reports
were considered to be of a very high quality providing a sound organisational and legislative
base for environmental protection in Trinidad and Tobago. As a result of this consultancy, a new
environmental regime was established in 1995, consisting of:
3 An Environmental Management Act, enacted in March 1995; and
- An Environmental Management Authority (EMA) established on June 5, 1995 (World
Environment Day)
In addition, a five (5) year Environmental Management Project initiated in April 1995
and co-funded by the World Bank, the United Nations Development Bank and the GORTT.
23.   A Trade Facilitation Adviser (locally recruited expert on Customs procedures) was
hired to review and evaluate the feasibility of the recommendations of the Folke Borgstrom,
UNDP/UNCTAD Trade Facilitation Advisor's report of June 27, 1986 and of 1989.
24.   The GORTT also benefitted from the expertise of a Petroleum Consultant who was
contracted on August 16, 1991 and reviewed the outputs of the Consultants undertaking the
Petroleum Legislative Review. The objective of this consultancy was to provide consulting
services for the provision of Technical Support in the review of the regulatory and fiscal
legislation affecting the petroleum sector. A Report and Aide-Memoire on his findings of the
Interim report and Draft Final Report were submitted.
25.   A Trade In-house Consultant was contracted on August 5, 1991, to provide consulting
services for the provision of Technical Support in respect of the Trade Reform Segment of the
Structural Adjustment Programme for Trinidad and Tobago and to ensure quality control of the
outputs consistent with the Terms of Reference. This Consultant participated in three (3)
separate phases for a total number of 58 days. The Consultant produced a Final Report on
January 17, 1992, including a supplementary list of recommendations on priority subjects to be
addressed in implementing trade policy reforms.



-58-                         APPENDIX B
26.  In anticipation of the Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Loan (BEIRL), the
TAL provided assistance to the Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards (TTBS) by financing
the services of a Metrology Consultant to assist the TTBS in upgrading its metrology facilities
to serve the calibration needs of the industrial sectors in Trinidad and Tobago. This Consultant
was hired for the Project Enhancement of Quality Competitiveness of Industry under the BEIRL.
27.   The State-Owned Enterprises component sought to implement reforms, including
financial and managerial restructuring, cost education measure, liquidation of inefficient and
unviable enterprises and divestment of selected enterprises. Serious slippage occurred on this
project for a number of reasons attributable in varying degrees to both the GORTT and the
Consultants. Two (2) components of the Management and Organisational Study remain
incomplete. There were significant delays in processing of payments.
28.   As a result of the State-Owned Enterprises Unit (SOEU) not being fully staffed and
therefore not becoming operational, the proposed functions for the Unit were transferred to the
Investments Division. Activities relating to the divestment of State Companies were conducted
by the Divestment Secretariat.
29.   A Management and Operations Audit of the Trinidad and Tobago Electricity
Commission (T&TEC) was to focus, inter alia, on (a) improving system planning (b)
recommending ways to improve T&TEC's rate making capacity and (c) assessing operational
and maintenance practices in order to improve the efficiency of the existing plant.
30.   The Final Report of the Consultants was accepted by T&TEC in January 1992. The
recommendations emanating from the Report were utilised by T&TEC in devising its Action
Plan which was adopted by its Board in mid-June 1992.
31.   While progress related to the improvement in operational targets was initially slow, the
targets were eventually met. A more stringent regime for the collection of receivables was firmly
established, outstanding balances were successfully reduced and financial restructuring was
carried through. The improvement have helped clear the way for the decision taken by the
GORTT in 1994 to introduce private sector involvement in the power generation aspect of the
operations.
32.   Training overseas of selected T&TEC staff in rate structure, corporate and strategic
planning and software for statistical controls did not materialise as was envisioned under the
TAL, but was undertaken in-house at the Commission.
33.   Related to the activities undertaken by the Commission, the TAL also financed the work
of a Public Utilities Review & Implementation Committee (PURIC), including a lead
Consultant, whose objectives were to review as a priority, the technical studies done with respect
to WASA, Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission (T&TEC) and the Public Transport
Service Corporation (PTSC); and to consider all practical recommendations and formulating
action plans. The Committee's major accomplishments were (i) the development of a Short
Term Action Plan and a Self Sufficiency Plan for WASA; (ii) the development of a plan to



-59-                         APPENDIX B
achieve the targets of the Structural Adjustment Programme - WASA & Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commission (T&TEC); (iii) the development of a document of Long Term Project
profiles (for WASA), to facilitate funding by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB); (iv)
assistance to WASA on a Sewerage Master Plan; and (v) Assistance to T&TEC on funding for
plant rehabilitation and spares stocking as well as its generation expansion plan.
34.   Most of the Committee's time and effort was spent in grappling with and correcting the
problems encountered in WASA. The Committee was also able to assist T&TEC in the
development of a programme to meet the conditionalities including the conversion of the
Management and Operations Audit into an Action Plan.
35.   The strengthening of the investment project preparation capability of the Ministry
of Planning and Development (MOPAD) within the context of the Public Sector Investment
Programme (PSIP) was aimed at strengthening the process for formulation, implementation and
monitoring of the PSIP.
36.   As a result of the consultancy, public sector investment management has been
substantially improved. The practice of preparing investment plans with a three (3) year horizon
has been institutionalised, with plans being rolled over annually. There is strong budgetary
support for a core programme and the quality of project preparation has gradually improved. In
the latter respect, human resources development activity in the area of project cycle management
has been given priority.
37.   The Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPAD) has been given clear
responsibility for the formulation and oversight of the capital programme. More rigorous project
selection criteria and procedures have also been introduced. In addition, action has been taken to
improve implementation performance, including resort to the establishment of dedicated project
implementation units for the larger projects. Likewise, administrative systems are being
streamlined.
38.  In order to strengthen the monitoring capability as well as the overall public sector
investment programming, Government has appointed a high level committee, chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Development to review the overall
performance of the PSIP and make recommendations for its improvement on a continuous basis.
The Project Planning and Reconstruction Unit of the Ministry of Planning and Development also
has as part of its core functions: monitoring of the performance of the PSIP; and improving the
systems to facilitate such monitoring.
39.   The long-term goal of the GORTT was to develop trade while improving the economy.
One of the primary objectives was to introduce an efficient system of revenue collection, as well
as to institute a mechanism for monitoring trade in Trinidad and Tobago. One of the activities
which was meant to assist in the development of trade policy was the Trade Policy Study. The
objective of this Study was to inform the GORTT's policies relating to the medium term tariff
reform, particularly for the non-oil sector. Another measure was the simplification of import and
export procedures through the implementation of Automated SYstem for CUstoms DAta
(ASYCUDA).



-60-                         APPENDIX B
40.   The Trade study was undertaken in the context of a trade reform policy intended to
reduce any anti-export bias in the country's trade regime. The trade reform programme was
envisaged to take place in two (2) stages, viz: (i) immediate rationalization of protection; and (ii)
formulation of a medium term tariff reform to reduce the level and dispersion of effective
protection.
41.   Despite efforts by the GORTT in assigning counterparts for this component, transfer of
technology was not fully effected as was envisioned in the Terms of Reference (TOR). This was
as a result of the counterparts' lack of involvement in the collection and analysis of information
due to the private sector's concerns with respect to confidentiality. In addition, the software
utilised by the Consultants were considered proprietary. The Consultants however provided a
framework for the functioning of a Trade Technical Committee established to provide technical
advice to the GORTT in its implementation of a medium term tariff programme. In formulating
recommendations on the issue of duty exemptions awarded as an incentive to manufacturers, the
Committee utilised findings of the Final Report of the Consultants.
42.   ASYC11DA, designed by United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), was geared specifically to address problems encountered in processing Customs
documentation in developing countries.  In fulfillment of its commitment to an agreement
entered into with UNCTAD/UNDP/IBRD, dated December 31, 1991, the GORTT adopted
ASYCUDA.
43.   The project got off to a slow start in early 1992. Difficulties were encountered primarily
with the retention of the trained project team, accommodation and the agreement to the Single
Administrative Document. However, following a series of discussions between UNCTAD,
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the project Steering Committee, the
Customs and Excise Division (CED) commenced operations of the ASYCUDA Pilot Project on
October 4, 1993 in San Fernando. Reports revealed that technically, ASYCUDA was successful.
An analysis of the declarations processed through the system at San Fernando, was undertaken
by the Regional Customs Adviser during his visit of November 8-10, 1993. The Adviser
reported that ASYCUDA was capable of generating data on the total revenue foregone through
Government concessions, as well as identifying which group of importers received benefits from
those concessions. The ASYCUDA data also provided the total value of imports and exports
between Trinidad and Tobago and other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) States.
ASYCUDA proved useful in providing management data, for example, information on the
cashier's day book and the declarations processed by any particular Customs Officer.
44.   One of the main successes of the implementation of ASYCUDA in San Fernando was the
Single Administration document.  Customs brokers stated that it was easier and more
straightforward than the numerous forms previously required.
45.  In view of the fact that ASYCUDA was developed and maintained by UNCTAD,
technical assistance from UNCTAD was necessary to ensure the continued successful application
and sustainability of the system in Trinidad and Tobago. The maintenance of a Wide Area
Network of the expanded ASYCUDA requires a high level of technical expertise which was not



-61-                         APPENDIX B
all available locally and in particular, the ASYCUDA source codes and structure were to be
retained and maintained by UNCTAD alone. In this regard, a Technical Assistance Agreement
between the GORTT and UNPDtINCTAD in March 1996 for technical assistance support for
ASYCUDA.
46.   Due to the successful implementation at San Fernando, the GORTT was sufficiently
convinced of the potential benefits of the system to make a commitment to expand the project on
a national scale in 1994. Funding was allocated from the uncommitted balance of the TAL to
implement ASYCUDA throughout Trinidad and Tobago. ASYCUDA was successfully installed
and is operational at the following sites: Port of Spain (HQ); Piarco Airport (Single User Mode);
Piarco Airport (Full Development); Port of Spain Docks; Point Lisas; Pointe a Pierre and
Scarborough, Tobago. San Fernando was converted from the PROLOGUE environment to the
UNIX environment and integrated into the national network on August 1, 1995. There were only
two (2) dial-up links; to Pointe-a-Pierre and Scarborough. Pointe-a-Pierre has since been
integrated into the Leased Line Network and is controlled from the central server at Head
Quarters in Port of Spain. Customs and Excise is now in the process of integrating Scarborough.
This exercise should be completed by early July, 1997. However, the dial-up link has been
successful except for on-line activity which is not possible in the dial-up mode.
47.   Assistance in the preparation of action plans to carry out trade reforms was effected
through the establishment of a Trade Technical Committee which was primarily responsible for
informing policy decisions on the implementation of a Medium Term Tariff Reform Programme;
the phasing out of Import Duty Exemptions; the grariting of simulated Free Trade status to
exporters; and the GORTT's trade policies with respect to the growth and development of the
Agricultural and Manufacturing Sector.
48.   The implementation of these policies is evident in the dismantling of the negative List
for manufactured items, the gradual elimination of import duty exemptions on machinery and
inputs, the creation of a special regime of incentives to encourage export-oriented production and
the improved trade facilitation.
49.   The Petroleum Legislative Review saw as its objective to determine the relative
competitiveness of Trinidad and Tobago in attracting further private sector involvement in the
petroleum industry and make recommendations for improvement where appropriate. In doing so,
relevant petroleum legislation and regulations were reviewed, such as the Petroleum Act and the
Petroleum Taxes Act and Act No. 5 of 1981 (major amendment to the Petroleum Taxes Act).
50.   The recommendations for the consultants were considered to be of extreme value and
were particularly useful in the deliberations of a Cabinet appointed committee who were in the
process of revising the Petroleum Taxation Regime at that time.
51.   These changes have immediately resulted in increased activity within the sector
particularly in the area of exploration. Geophysical activity, both in newly licensed areas as well
as in areas where concessions has previously been granted has increased by as much as 38%.



-62-                         APPENDIX B
Exploration drilling which had declined significantly in 1992 showed a dramatic increase of 37%
in 1993.
52.   An important aspect of these newly concluded agreements has been the use of software,
developed by the consultants and purchased under the TAL programme, in modifying the fiscal
terms of these arrangements to accommodate the interests of both the government and the
companies and facilitate a speedy resolution of lease/contract terms.
B.   Social Sector Programme
53.   Assistance to the Social Sectors Unit was provided through collaboration with the
United National Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC), by a
Regional Consultant who was recruited to undertake including reviews on the Restructuring of
the Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission (T&TEC), Water and Sewerage Authority
(WASA), and the Overall Socio-Economic Implications and Impact of the Economy
Restructuring of Trinidad and Tobago Economy.
54.   These Studies formed the basis for informing policy reviews undertaken by the
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT) and for the formulation of
initiatives to mitigate adverse effects of economic restructuring on the vulnerable groups.
55.   The primary focus of the Review of Public Expenditure on the Social Sectors was to
analyse patterns of expenditure in the Social Sectors for the past five (5) years prior to 1990, and
evaluate their effectiveness. The Review was also aimed at determining the efficiency of
expenditure with respect to design, targetting and administration. The range of programmes
examined included health, education, housing, vocational training, small business development,
special assistance to youth, special food programmes, school meals, social security and various
other forms of assistance to those who are vulnerable to economic vagaries. This review was
utilised by the Ministry of Finance to monitor improvements in systems and social programmes.
56.   The preparation of an Operation to strengthen the prospects of unemployed youths
involved a number of programmes which were designed and implemented by the Social Sector
Unit (SSU), and aimed at mitigating the social costs of the adjustment programme. These
programmes were as follows:
57.   Youth Training Employment Partnership Programme (YTEPP): This began as a pilot in
1988 and was designed as a short-term measure to deal with the problem of youth employment
during the period of structural adjustment. YTEPP was aimed at improving vocational skills
and employment opportunities of youths between 15 and 25 years of age. The SSU was later
charged with the responsibility of preparing a bankable project proposal for possible World Bank
funding. Project preparation for an independent World Bank loan was finalised in September
1990 and a US $20.7m loan was signed between the GORTT and Bank in August 1991. YTEPP
is now fully operational.



-63-                         APPENDIX B
58.   Youth Enterprise Support System (YESS): This proposal had a direct linkage to the
YTEPP and offered a range of business development services, including the extension of credit
by the Small Business Development Company (SBDC) to potential entrepreneurs between 15-30
years.
59.   Labour Market Information System (LMIS): The objective of this system was to collect,
analyse and disseminate information needed by both training and employment organisations in
planning their education and training activities in light of labour market conditions and
prospects.
60.   Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilisation (AIM): The AIM programme was launched in
October, 1990 and was administered by the National Training Board (NTB) of the Ministry of
Education. This concept was developed to provide immediate short-term employment for
substantial number of skilled, trained, unemployed youths, 15-25 years old.
61.  Information to assist the GORTT in assessing programmes designed to protect the poor
and vulnerable groups was generated from programmes such as the Each Community Helping
Out (ECHO) and the Survey of Living Conditions (SLC).
62.   The ECHO was developed with the objective of alleviating the adverse consequences of
poverty experienced by the less fortunate member of society. This programme, which was
administered by the Ministry of Social Development was designed in two (2) stages viz: a
feeding programme and a development programme which focussed on rehabilitative measures.
63.   Due to a change in administration in 1991, the ECHO Programme was suspended. On
April 15, 1993, the Cabinet agreed to the implementation of the Social Help and Rehabilitative
Effort (SHARE). This programme was similar in focus and was funded in part, by the GORTT
and the by the IDB under the Social Impact Mitigation Programmes of the Investment Sector
Loan. A National Management Committee was established for co-ordinating , implementing,
and managing the SHARE Programme. Coverage was targetted at 4,600 people to be fed daily
in the first phase and 6,300 by the second phase. To date, the SHARE Secretariat has channelled
resources to 51 participating NGOs to provide meals to 4,620 persons since June 1994. The
rehabilitative aspect of the programme which entails recipients of assistance to obtain vocational
and entrepreneurial skills for self-employment is being addressed through a referral system to
governmental and NGOs which provide these specialised services.
64.   The aims of the Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) were to measure living standards and
levels of poverty in the country and to assess the effectiveness of Government's social welfare
programmes. A pilot SLC survey was conducted in October 1991 and baseline data was
collected for updating and improving an ongoing database on Living Standards in Trinidad and
Tobago. Data collection for the 1992 SLC was conducted during the period May to June 1992
and the survey data had been processed to the stage where computerised records were available,
including a data dictionary to facilitate analysis and preparation of table.



-64-                         APPENDIX B
65.  In October 1993, a Social Analyst was contracted by the Restructuring Support Unit
(RSU) for a period of twelve (12) months in the first instance, to finalise the Preliminary Report
of the SLC and to participate in undertaking social research on specified topics. The analysis
undertaken by this Consultant was utilised to develop policy recommendations to improve
targetting of vulnerable groups.
66.   The review of the Social Security System in Trinidad and Tobago was aimed at
providing recommendations for reforming and restructuring the existing welfare programmes to
improve efficiency by increasing coverage and benefits, while keeping Government subventions
from  escalating.  It involved an analysis of current social security system, including
arrangements for family support, health, pensions and unemployment assistance, with a view to
identifying areas of deficiency and scope for introducing innovations which can strengthen the
system, with due regard to financial constraints. These changes were adopted and implemented
by the relevant Ministries/agencies.
C.   Activities Funded From Uncommitted Balance
67.  In an effort to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Planning and Development
for advancing as speedily as possible, the pipeline of projects that were being developed for
financing by the multi-lateral development banks, and for as improving implementation
performance with respect to such projects, a Senior Adviser to the Minister of Planning and
Development was appointed.
68.   This Senior Adviser had the responsibility of developing and coordinating elements of
the reform programme as well as mobilising financial resources for facilitatory capital
investments. In carrying out these functions he interfaced regularly with major multilateral
development banks, inc!uding the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB). He played a key role in monitoring the activities undertaken under the Investment Sector
Loan financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
69.   Additionally, after some difficulty in obtaining a suitable Project Co-ordinator for Phase I
of the Property Taxation project, the Senior Adviser assumed this role on recommendation of the
Permanent Secretary. In addition to this, he also assumed the chairmanship of the project
Steering Committee and led the negotiations with the Consultants who were being contracted to
undertake the project. The Property Tax Pilot Project was successfully managed and executed by
the Adviser who was instrumental in expediting and effecting policy decisions with respect to the
deliverables of the project, and the overall management of the exercise.
70.   The GORTT is pursuing a loan from the World Bank out of the Public Sector
Strengthening project.
71.   The specific objectives under the Study to Review the Institutional Framework to support
Trinidad and Tobago's Overall Development Thrust was (i) to ensure that there exists in Trinidad
and Tobago a wholly adequate network of business support services to facilitate strong growth



-65-                         APPENDIX B
and diversification and to help producers meet the challenges resulting from having to contest
international markets and operate in a more competitive domestic environment; (ii) to ensure that
the role of public institutions engaged in the provision of support services is brought in line with
the reorientation and restructuring of the economy; and (iii) to eliminate inefficiencies and
improve the effectiveness of those public institutions which are relied upon to facilitate and
provide support services for domestic producers.
72.  In doing so, Consultants were required to undertake a careful assessment of the needs of
producers and investors for support services of all types; identify an appropriate role for
Governnent in the provision of these support services; examine the range and quality of support
services currently available; review the nature and functioning of existing public institutions
engaged in providing support services; identify any institutional gaps and new institutions
required; and recommend rationalisation and/or strengthening of existing institutions.
73.   This study was completed in October, 1995. The Report identified gaps that should be
promoted by GORTT or the private sector; improvements needed in GORTT provided services;
services that no longer should be offered by the GORTT; and restructuring of various
government institutions involved in providing business support services to the private sector.
Institutions addressed included the Food and Drugs Division; Plant Quarantine Division;
Tourism and Industrial Development Company (TIDCO); Caribbean Industrial Research
Institute (CARIRI); and the Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards (TTBS).
74.   The Reform of the System of Property Taxation was a pilot project geared towards the
design, development and testing of a system of valuation and assessment in order to facilitate the
fair and equitable treatment of all properties based on the Improved Capital Value System
(ICVS).
75.   A joint-venture firm was contracted on October 31, 1995 for a period of nine (9) months,
to undertake the valuation and assessment of properties at the two (2) selected sites viz: part of
Arima and the Pt. Lisas Industrial estate with a two (2) month extension until October 31, 1996.
The key elements of the proposed new system were identified as the legislative structure;
administrative arrangements and overall information system including computer and operational
systems.
76.   Technically, the pilot project proved an overall success, as the firm provided a good base
for launching Phase II of the project. There were some delays in data collection, but these were
attributed to the lack of qualified data collectors recruited for the exercise. On the GORTT's
side, the failure to establish a project management unit and to appoint counterparts severely
hampered the progress of the project and thereby allowed the above-mentioned problems to
develop unchecked during the first part of the project.
77.   As part of the Deliverables of Phase I, the Consultants were required to submit a Terms
of Reference and Technical and Cost Proposals for undertaking Phase II. The GORTT is
evaluating the results of the pilot project and is in the process of determining an approach to
ensuring that the deficiencies noted in Phase I are not perpetuated in Phase II.



-66-                         APPENDIX B
VI.  Bank Performance
78.   Bank performance during the evolution and implementation of the Technical Assistance
Loan (TAL 3153TR) was satisfactory. During its missions, the Bank provided guidance in the
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago's (GORTT's) conduct of TAL activities
and maintained flexibility in instance where delays were being encountered. This flexibility was
welcomed particularly where the GORTT experienced delays in the establishment of the TAL
Special Account, the Bank facilitated Applications for Withdrawals in an attempt to expedite the
timely processing of payment to Consultants. The Borrower enjoyed a cordial relationship with
the Bank as the Bank remained accessible in providing technical advice especially in the areas of
procurement procedures, audit, and financial reporting.
79.   The supervision missions were adequate and timely and advice provided was always
afforded serious consideration. The Bank always responded to requests for "no objection" in a
timely manner, thereby facilitating the implementation of the project. The Bank was always
readily available to advise and respond to any concerns raised by the GORTT relating to
disbursement or procurement activities.
VII. Borrower Performance
80.   Project results can be rated as satisfactory. All of the objectives under the TAL were
achieved with the exception of one component where less satisfactory results were achieved in
carrying out of studies related to the State-Owned Enterprises Unit (SOEU) and its
implementation of the State-Owned Enterprises (SOE) Divestment and Rationalization
Programme. Such was the extent of the success of most of the projects that further technical
assistance was allocated for the expansion of a successful pilot project, namely the Automated
Systems for Customs Data (ASYCUDA). Results of another pilot has led the Borrower to the
stage of proceeding to Cabinet for approval to implement at national level. A more detailed
description of project results are described below.
VIII. Findings
81.   The principal lessons to be learned from the TAL experience may be derived from the
problems encountered in procurement and the management of loan funds.
82.  In the early stages of the TAL, there were considerable delays in the procurement of
consultants, as this was recognised as a serious setback to implementation. Both the RSU and
SSU were instrumental in making commendable progress, in overcoming delays experienced in
1990/91 by modifying the normal administrative procedures and adopting more efficient
recruitment methods. Stringent time-frames and guidelines were developed and adhered to and
these became institutionalised at various project management units established within other
Ministries. The expertise of the RSU has been called upon on numerous occasions by agencies
which were mandated to manage activities funded by international lending agencies.



-67-                         APPENDIX B
83.   On the debit side, bottlenecks were initially experienced in processing of payments for
eligible expenditures under the Loan. This was directly attributable to the delay in the
establishment of the Special Account. Since the Special Account was established, the payment
process to suppliers of goods and services made a marked improvement. In addition, the audits
on loan funds were facilitated through the examination of records from one source, the Central
Bank as opposed to the examination of records at all implementing agencies.
84.   The success of the TAL, therefore, was due in large measure to the establishment of two
(2) dedicated project management units (RSU and SSU) which were able to focus without
distractions on the full range of project management responsibilities viz planning, procurement
activities, processing of payment, monitoring and project evaluation. Without this type of
arrangement, implementation of the TAL would not have been successful.



-68-                            APPENDIX C
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (TAL)
(3153-TR)
DESCRIPTION OF TAL SUBPROJECTS
I.  ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
TAL LOANA GREEMENTPARTA 1: Assisting RSU in coordinating and
implementing the Borrower's medium-term adjustment program, including
preparation or related operations.
1.    The Restructuring Support Unit (RSU). The TAL financed short and long term
consultants, equipment and training to assist the RSU in its functions of facilitating and
coordinating the implementation of the medium-term adjustment program, including
contracting the consultants who assisted in the six activities on the critical path to SAL
release: The Trade Policy Study, installation of the Automated System for Customs Data
(ASYCUDA), Petroleum Legislation Review, T&TEC Management and Operational
Audit; strengthening of the PSIP process, following the dismantling of the Social Sectors
Unit (SSU) in 1993, completion of follow-up work relating to Social Sector Studies.
2.    The RSU also supported other activities of directly related to the Government's
adjustment program: Property Tax Reform, Legal and Institutional Framework of SOEs;
a post-adjustment institutional review, and assistance in preparing the Bank supported
Environmental Management and Business Expansion Operations.)
3.    The Social Sector Unit (SSID, The TAL financed consultant services,
equipment and training to assist SSU in strengthening social policies and programs,
including the design and preparation of programs to alleviate the social impact of
adjustment. These areas included: a Social Sector Expenditure Review, development of
the Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP), Development of a
Labor Market Information System, the carrying out of a Survey of Living Conditions, a
study on the Development of a Social Security System, and studies of the social impact
of adjustment in the trade, utilities, and petroleum sectors.
4.    Outcome. Both the RSU and the SSU admirably carried out their mandates.
Both had able staffs and particularly able Directors during the early years of TAL
implementation who were seasoned professionals. Each was very effective in: (i)
facilitating implementation of the Government's economic restructuring program,
including activities related to the management of the SAL and the TAL, as well as other
Bank and IDB operations, especially the Investment Sector Loan (ISL); (ii) liaising
closely with each other to ensure contemporaneous consideration of the social costs and
implications of adjustment measures; (iii) ensuring that the recommendations of the
consultants funded from the TAL and other sources (e.g. WASA related work funded by
the IDB) were reviewed by appropriate government authorities and brought to the



-69-                            APPENDIX C
Cabinet's attention, especially with a view to securing release of the second tranche of the
SAL; (iv) facilitating preparation of future Bank operations including the YTEPP, the
BEIRL, and EMA operations; (v) ensuring complementarity between TAL financed
activities and TA financed from other sources; and (vi) overcoming systemic
implementation obstacles such as slowness in recruitment caused by lengthy procedures
of the State Solicitors Office and the Central Tenders Board.
5.   It was envisaged that the SSU would serve as an incubator for the activities
described in paragraphs 65 to 77 below, for their pilot testing, prior to turning
responsibility over to an appropriate government agency on a permanent basis. The SSU,
however, was disbanded in 1992 following a change of Government before it had
fulfilled its mandate of developing action plans, assisting in adoption of
recommendations, preparing Cabinet Notes leading to their institutionalization, and
carrying out a program of equipping, training to ensure maintenance of the high quality
of work carried out by the SSU, and helping in the transition to their new institutional
homes. The SSU was particularly effective in locating grant money to substitute for TAL
funds, freeing TAL funds for further adjustment related activities in keeping with the
project's objectives.
6.    Both the RSU and the SSU made commendable progress in overcoming
SAL/TAL implementation delays encountered in 1990/91.1 Following early delays in
TAL implementation (almost one year), the RSU and SSU were able to recruit a large
number of qualified individuals and firms, in part because a decision was taken to modify
normal Central Tenders Board (CTB) administrative procedures and use the most
efficient recruitment methods. The six TAL supported areas on the critical path for
securing second tranche SAL release were completed due in large part to the excellent
management of the RSU and SSU. Unfortunately, following completion of the SAL and
together with a change of Government in late 1992, the RSU lost many of its seasoned
staff.
7.    The following paragraphs describe the purpose and outcome of each of the
aforementioned RSU and SSU managed activities.
' The RSU hired a procurement specialist to train and advise RSU and SSU staff, as well
as staff of the Central Tenders Board and State Solicitors Office, with a view to
improving practices a and procedures long recognized as a major impediment to
implementation in Trinidad. He assisted in the development of model LOIs and contracts
which have been successfully used. This consultancy greatly facilitated the contracting
under the TAL. The RSU was then sought after to implement other operations, including
the IDB's and the Bank's BEIRL.



-70-                            APPENDIX C
IL    TAL LOANAGREEMENTPARTA 2: Assisting the Sate OwnedEnrri
Unit (SOEU) in: (a) implementing the SOE Divestment and Rationalization Program
through the services of, inter alia, auditors, financial analysts, valuators, lawyers, and
investment experts; and (b) carrying out studies for the purpose ofpreparing related
SOE and private sector development operations.
8.    Public Enterprise Sector Studies. The aim of this work, as well as other TAL
funded activities such as the Petroleum Legislation Review and the Trade Policy Study,
was to support GORTT's efforts in diversifying the economy away from oil and putting it
on a path of sustainable growth. The Government decided to use its own funds for the
divestment and liquidation activities on the critical path for SAL release. It also decided
to include the PE Reform loan in the IDB's rather than the Bank's lending program.
9.    Nevertheless, GORTT requested that TAL funds be used to contract a regional
consulting firm who carried out several Public Enterprise Related Studies intended to
improve the analytical and monitoring capabilities of the newly established State Owned
Enterprise Unit (SOEU) which was to take over responsibility from the Rampersad
Committee (a Government team that focused on financial and managerial restructuring
and divestment of SOEs), cost reduction, and liquidation of inefficient and unviable
SOEs, and divestment of others as supported under the SAL. In 1991 it also took over
SOE related staff and functions transferred from the Ministry of Trade and Industry.
10.   The objective of the TAL studies was to improve the efficiency of the public
enterprise sector, including the utilities, and contribute to improved macroeconomic
performance and efficient allocation of pubic resources.
11.   The TAL financed:
(a)   Management and Organization Study. Legal mandate, organization and
staffing, duplication of functions, effectiveness and recommendations for
rationalization were to have been made along with action plans for
improvement. The number of SOEs and Utilities to be studied was a
source of continuous debate between the MOF and the consulting firm.
The Government's proposal of 68 SOEs was unrealistic. In the end, the
consultants had the time and resources to complete work on the following
entities: The Agricultural Development Bank, the Export Development
Corporation, the National Petroleum Marketing Co. Ltd., the National
Flour Mills, National Quarries, T&T Printing and Packaging, National
Maintenance Training and Security Ltd., Trinidad Reinsurance Co.
(TRINRE), Trinidad and Tobago Oil Company (TRINTOC), BWIA,
CARONI Ltd., and T&TEC.
The studies provided information for more in-depth analysis of the
companies undertaken separately.



-71-                             APPENDIX C
(b)   Legal and Institutional Framework Study helped inform the TAL financed
Management and Operational Audit of T&TEC, especially regarding the
role and problems associated with the Public Utilities Commission. Areas
addressed included:
(i)   the process by which SOEs determine their budgets, investment
programs, pricing and tariff policies and other operational
decisions;
(ii)  the system for monitoring economic and financial and technical
performance of PEs;
(iii)  the role of the PUC;
(iv)  the clarity of the respective oversight responsibilities of the PUC
and Ministry of Public Utilities;
(v)   ways to improve coordination on financial and accounting matters
between the MOF, the PUC and individual utilities;
(vi)  the need for performance targets for the regulated utilities in order
to increase efficiency of operations within the context of tariff
approvals;
(vii)  an assessment of the appropriateness of the existing rate structure
and other mechanisms in addressing the needs of poor and
vulnerable groups; and
(viii) the appropriateness of the present legislation regarding public
utilities in light of changes in the economic and social
environment.
The main recommendations were:
(i)   the whole body of law dealing with utilities should be replaced;
(ii)  the rate making process for utilities should be revised;
(iii)  Enterprises incorporated by special legislation should instead come
under general legislation applicable to the private sector;
(iv)  the missions of the Enterprises should be reviewed and revised or
updated where necessary.
The Ministry of Public Utilities is pursuing the necessary action with
respect to the utilities.



-72-                             APPENDIX C
(c)   Wage and Employment Policies and Practices of Public Enterprises
(including public utilities) to determine competitiveness with the private
sector. The overall objective was to review and analyze the wage and
employment policies and practices of the public enterprise sector as a
whole pursuant to a general appraisal of resource mobilization and
efficiency of allocation in the sector. This was achieved through the use of
a survey of SOEs. The survey and workshop on recommendations and
performance indicators were completed during the first half of 1992. This
work was used in the Bank's Public Sector Expenditure Review
The major recommendations as outlined in the Study were:
(i)   re-incorporate as many of the Statutory Enterprises as possible
under general legislation as proposed in the Legal and Institutional
Study. Give them the authority to manage personnel matters while
holding them accountable to the Minister of Finance (Corporation
Sole) through the monitoring of specified performance indicators;
(ii)   conduct detailed individual Manpower Reviews in those
Enterprises identified as having potential barriers to efficient
manpower utilization in this area;
(iii)  establish a clear policy on human resource development in the
sector and set up the mechanisms to facilitate the training and
development of employees in the skills areas identified as currently
lacking;
(iv)  introduce Total Quality Management programmes in the
Enterprises as quickly as is feasible;
(v)   simplify and update the job classification system in the Enterprises
identified as having a potential problem;
(vi)  promote and encourage the implementation of productivity
incentive or profit sharing schemes and employee share ownership
programme.
The Enterprises continue to review their wage and employment Policies
and Practices with a view to improving where necessary.
(d)   PE Database/Performance Monitoring and Evaluation System, was
intended to help put in place the machinery to effectively monitor and
evaluate performance of the SOE sector and the structure and institutional
2 Trinidad and Tobago: Macroeconomic Assessment and Review of Public Sector Reform and
Expenditures: The Changing Role of the State, Report No. 1518-TR, June 28, 1996.



-73-                            APPENDIX C
arrangements to keep tract of the changes taking place as a result of the
restructuring program adopted by GORTT. The system was tested on a
pilot basis in 1992 and training was carried out in Jamaica.
The RSU's evaluation of this work indicated that the late delivery of the user manuals
and non-finalization of the System Documentation by the consultant seriously hindered
the client (MOF) in proceeding with fully implementing the system. On the other hand,
given the lengthy time it took for GORTT to approve the specifications and put this
process out to tender, the MOF might have put his process on a "fast track" to ensure
delivery to the equipment while the consultants were still in the country. In addition,
training suffered because the main counterpart could not be released full-time to the
project. The counterpart's knowledge of the system gained from a visit to the consulting
firm's home country office "was not significant", according to the RSU, since the
consultants had not adequately prepared a training program for her. Finally, the Data
Base Administrator was recruited one year after the departure of the consultants. All
these factors have mitigated against effective implementation of the system.
After numerous attempts to correct the problems as well as adjusting operations and
procedures to bring the Performance Monitoring and Evaluation System on-line, a
decision was taken to cease operations on the system. This was done in light of the
instability of the Paradox platform as well as the growing awareness of the more stable
and efficient Window's based platform.
12.   General Outcome. Actions taken on divestment went significantly beyond the
divestment/liquidation targets established in the SAL. This reflected the strong
commitment by the Government to rationalization of the state enterprise sector. SOEs no
longer pose a major drain on the economy. The public sector has undergone a significant
restructuring including many total divestments, partial divestment, mergers and
restructuring of many state enterprises. During this time the total public sector
employment was reduced by about 30%. The process was not limited to commercial
state enterprises but extended to the public utilities as well where partial divestments in
electricity generation and telecommunications took place and private sector management
was installed in the water authority.
13.   The Government still has seventeen wholly owned and seven majority owned
enterprises. The process of divestment however has slowed down under the present
regime, possibly because the easier divestments have already occurred and what is left is
considered strategic (Gas) or politically unacceptable (CARONI and Petrotrin, the state
oil company). However, the state enterprises no longer constitute a serious drain on the
treasury. Many of the loss-makers which could not be sold were liquidated.
Nevertheless, the public sector is still overextended and contains many enterprises which
could be more efficiently operated in the private sector. The Government has not fully
articulated a policy on divestment.



-74-                            APPENDIX C
14.   Future Activities. The State-owned Enterprise Unit was never fuilly operational.
However in 1991 the Enterprise Division of the Ministry of Industry, Enterprise and
Tourism at that time became the Investments Division of the Ministry of Finance. The
role and function of this Division was, and still is, to monitor and analyze the operations
and performance of all State Enterprises. The Divestment Secreatariat is an arm of this
Division which implements the decisions of Government to divest its Enterprises.
III. TAL LOANAGREEMENTPARTA 3 and 4: Carrying out a management and
operational audit of T& TEC and assisting in the preparation and implementation of
an action plan to improve: (a) financial self-sufficiency and management; (b)
administrative efficiency; (c) operational efficiency: (d) the system of investment
programming; and (e) rate-making capacity. Training of selected staff of T& TEC
including field visits overseas.
15.   Management and Operational Audit of T&TEC. Prior to second tranche SAL
release: (i) the management and operational audit of T&TEC was to have been carried out
and an action plan mutually agreed; (ii) measures were to have been adopted, including
best efforts to obtain a tariff adjustment in order to achieve a break even position in 1990;
(iii) an investment plan was to have been adopted in line with the action plan; and (iv) a
customer/employee ratio of not less than 99 (from 97) was to have been achieved.
16.   The objective of the SAL/TAL assistance was to improve resource mobilization
and efficiency of resource allocation by reducing high operating costs, particularly labor;
uneconomic pricing and poor management of demand which had let to poor financial
performance and wasteful use of electricity.
17.   Operational and financial management of the power company (T&TEC) and the
water and sewerage authority (WASA) suffered from serious deficiencies and constituted
a heavy burden on the budget. In the case of T&TEC the TAL financed about 40 person-
months of consultants to undertake a management and operational audit with a focus on
achieving financial self-sufficiency, improving administrative and operational efficiency,
improving investment programming (including system expansion planning) and rate
setting capacity, and legislation for revaluing assets. The audit focused on:
(a)   improving system expansion planning. The organization, staffing level
and qualifications of the existing personnel of the Systems Operations and
Planning Department were evaluated with a view to improving
methodologies, criteria, hardware and software used for system expansion
planning to make the planning process more efficient. This, in tum, was
to help optimize existing investments and help reduce the need for new
investment in the short and medium term and the rate increases needed to
finance them;



-75-                            APPENDIX C
(b)   recommending ways to improve T&TEC's rate making capacity by
abandoning the supply side approach of promoting consumption and
adopting economic costing policies, including the possible introduction of
marginal costing, consistent with the recovery of actual (i.e., replacement)
costs, rather than costs of the original investment;
(c)   assessing operational and maintenance practices in order to improve the
efficiency of the existing plant; and
(d) proposing training and observation visits and recommending legislation to
be provided for revaluation of assets.
18.   The consultants focused on improving efficiency in the allocation of resources for
investments (complementing PSIP assistance); improving equity in the allocation of costs
among consumers, since the rate structure was heavily distorted in favor of heavy users;
considering measures for protecting the poor (related to SSU work); promoting electricity
reduction by users to help delay the need for new investments; and provide relative price
stability, thus reducing the need for substantial annual rate hikes, the corresponding
negative social impact.
19.   Outcome. An action plan was formulated to strengthen financial, administrative
and operational performance, adjust tariff levels and structure and eliminate arrears. Th
targets established under the SAL were met. A more stringent regime for the collection
of receivables was established, outstanding balances were successfuily reduced, and
fmancial restructuring was carried through. The improvements achieved with the
assistance of the TAL financed Audit helped clear the way for the decision taken by the
Government in 1994 to introduce private sector involvement in the power generation
aspect of the operations. Power GEN, partly owned by South Eastern Electric, is now
responsible for generation. T&TEC remains responsible for distribution but will soon
open up to competition. T&TEC still has rate-setting problems -- the main problem is
the regulatory framework, progress on which is being held up by pending legislation.
20.  In-House Utilities Consultant. A TAL financed national consultant (George
Braithwaite) prepared actions plans for both WASA and T&TEC based on work of the
IDB and TAL financed consultants to facilitate compliance with SAL targets. The IDB
had financed a study for WASA, which addressed improvements in administrative
efficiency (accounting, billing and collection methods) and installation of meters for
users.



-76-                            APPENDIX C
1I.   TAL LOANAGREEMENTPARTA 5: Strengthening the investment project
preparation capability of MOPAM (now MOPAD) within the context of the SI;E and
assisting in preparing projects well linked to sector strategies.
21. ESIP. Prior to second tranche SAL release, agreement was to have been reached:
(i) on the size, composition and sectoral balance and financing plan of a rolled over PSIP
covering the period 1990-92, with the core program form 1990; (ii) that coverage of the
PSIP include the investments of Central Government, public utilities and all SOEs where
the Government is the majority shareholder, or is funding specific investment projects;
(iii) that current expenditures be excluded from the PSIP; (iv) project preparation
guidelines including environmental impact assessments, analysis of recurrent cost
implications of investment projects, selection criteria and project approval procedures
(including decision making powers) to ensure that all projects above a financial threshold
of US$1.0 million are subject to full technical, economic and financial analysis before
they are included in the PSIP.
22.   Background. The composition of the PSIP largely reflected a stocktake of
current projects and included expenditure items which should have been classified as
recurrent costs. In the absence of a well-developed pipeline of technically sound and
economically viable projects meant that there was a tendency for the PSIP to include
projects at the most advanced stage of preparation, rather than those of highest priority. It
also failed to include investments of the SOEs.
23.   Activities. The TAL financed about 40 person-months of consultant services to
complement IDB grant assistance, in the development of project preparation guidelines
and in improving the project selection process, by preparing specific priority projects to
augment the rather thin PSIP pipeline. The TAL financed a national consultant who
coordinated the team of PSIP consultants, including an Information Systems Analyst and
a Financial Analyst. These consultants coordinated closely with a team of consultants
financed from an IDB $1.7 million grant for Institutional Strengthening of Planning and
Project and later, consultants financed under IDB's Cycle Management and Pre-
investment Loan ($10.3 million) approved in 1993 which included an extensive
institutional strengthening component for the planning and Programming Division, along
with funding for local consultants who would serve as counterparts. The loan financed
preparation of the IDB pipeline..
24.   The TAL consultants helped: (i) develop manuals and training in all aspects of
project cycle management from project identification through evaluation; (ii) develop a
system and detailed procedures for selecting government projects and formulating and
monitoring the PSIP; and (iii) prepare a three year PSIP for 1992-95.
25.   Outcome. Institutional relationships of the agencies involved in the PSIP were
delineated and coordination mechanisms were developed. Project Preparation
Guidelines, including environmental assessments and project selection and approval
criteria, analysis of recurrent cost implications of investments, and establishment of a



-77-                            APPENDIX C
threshold (US$1.0 million for full project appraisal). These procedures were approved by
Cabinet in mid-November 1992 in compliance with SAL conditionality. The procedures
provided for project appraisal to rest mainly with MOPAD. The government introduced
the new procedures starting in January 1993. The main issue was the lack of counterparts
in the Planning and Programming Division of MOPAD to absorb the intensive training
planned for CY93.
26.   TAL assistance was completed in late 1993. TAL financed consultants helped
MOPAD prepare a three year PSIP for 1992-95 and develop detailed procedures for
selecting government projects and formulating and monitoring the PSIP. The TAL
financed Information Systems Analyst, was to have designed an information reporting
system for monitoring the PSIP and a project data bank. Both systems have proved
difficult to operate. Attempts to have the consultant redress this problem were
unsuccessful.
27.   The TAL assistance was successful in that the practice of preparing investment
plans with a three-year horizon has been institutionalized. The plans have been rolled
over annually. There is strong budgetary support for a core program and the quality of
project preparation has improved, and more rigorous project selection criteria and
procedures have been introduced. Selection of projects and provision of budget resources
for recurrent costs has improved. A high level committee, chaired by the PS MOPAD,
was appointed to review overall performance of the PSIP and make recommendations for
improvement. Additionally, the following measures were introduced:
(a)   formulation of a dedicated management team in each government ministry
to oversee the implementation of its capital program (not yet fully
operational);
(b)   changes in procedures to facilitate more expeditious award of contracts;
and
(c)   reallocation of funds, on the basis of an annual and mid-term review of
program implementation to allow available resources to be more fully
utilized.
28.   The main current problem is implementation which is poor, due at least in part to
inadequate pay and employment policies to attract and retain qualified and seasoned staff.
The main issue, therefore. is sustainability. The Planning and Programming Division of
the MOPAD remains inadequately staffed to implement and manage the processes begun
with TAL assistance. The Division continues to operate with 33% of established capacity
in senior posts. The Bank recommended that to avoid dissipation of the excellent work
of the team of IDB and TAL fmanced consultants, the Project Planning and Programming
Division in MOPAD be fully staffed with experienced professionals, on fixed term
contracts if necessary.



-78-                             APPENDIX C
29.   In addition, during implementation the problem arose over the lead consultant
(national) being paid at nearly international rates. MOPAD staff interviewed for this
ICR saw substantial value in the training of national and counterpart staff in TA
Management at the outset of TA and ID operations to mitigate problems of this nature.
30.   Future Operation. There continues to be a problem of low public investment
and deteriorating infrastructure which is compounded by the poor implementation
capacity of the relevant Government agency. Part of the deficiency in infrastructure will
be made-up through the private provision of some traditional government services (e.g.,
water, telecoms and electricity generation). This will necessitate instituting an
appropriate regulatory framework to encourage and facilitate the successful private
provision of some public goods. In 1995 only 75 percent of the budgeted funds for
investment were actually committed. Improving implementation performance and raising
the quality of Government investments and services are key element of the medium term
agenda.
V.    TALLOANAGREEMENTPARTA 6AND 7: Carryingoutstudiesforthe
purpose ofpreparing trade and finance and industrial restructuring QpEa&nsj; and
Assisting in the preparation ofplans of action to carry out trade reforms by, inter alia,
carrying out the following:
(a) a study of the Borrower's trade and relatedpolicies, including of the impact
on domestic industries of removing licensing requirements for imports and of
the practical significance of existing exemptions from import charges on the
Borrower's competitiveness in regional markets;
(b) a study to estimate the direct and indirect content of indirect taxes in domestic
exports and to assess the need to introduce a system of indirect tax rebate for
exporters andformulate such system, if warranted;
implementing a system for strengthening the administration of the Borrower's trade
regime, including antidumping arrangements (dropped at the Borrower's request)
31.   Conditions for second tranche SAL release included:
(i) that the Government complete a study on trade and associated policies,
including an assessment of protective trade regime affecting agriculture and
the state trading company, quantitative estimates of effective protection;
3At the Government's request, the trade and finance operation was later dropped from the Bank's lending
progranm.



-79-                            APPENDIX C
(ii) that the number of items in the manufacturing sector for which importlnsi
are required be reduce-d-by 40% of the productive coverage involved and
agreement is reached on a time-phased action program to eliminate the rest by
1991;
(iii) that the Government has selected and established a schg ipfjarvidin fre
trade status to manufacturers predominantly engaged in exrortactivities and
has provided to the Bank a timetable to provide a similar facility to cover the
exports of other manufacturers.
32.   Background. Reform of the trade regime was an integral part of the
Government's objective to stimulate the economy by improving the conditions for growth
in private investment and exports. The trade reform was to address tariff reform over the
medium term, inter alia through annual adjustments in protection rates over three to five
years, ending in 1994. The target of the trade reform was the non-oil rnanufacturing
sector which has long been the recipient of protection through quantitative restrictions.
The TAL financed Trade Study and Related Policies was to recommend modifications to
the structure of incentives in favor of production for export by creating an incentive
environment that gradually approached free trade. The first stage was to address the
rationalization of the system of import protection, replacing administrative barriers to
imports (largely quantitative restrictions) with tariffs. It was to include gradual
elimination of the negative list of imports based on an agreed time phased plan. It would
also provide exporters with unrestricted access to imported inputs at intemational prices
and abandon export licensing.
33.   The TAL financed a study included:
a) an assessment of the protective regime affecting the agricultural sector and the
state trading company which would determine the time frame for phasing out
agricultural items on the negative list;
b) quantitative estimates of effective protection (to help define the medium term
tariff reform program more precisely);
c) recommendations for phasing the change at the industry level from
quantitative restrictions to tariff based protection;
d) a study of the impact on domestic industries of removing licensing
requirements for imports;
e) a study of the practical significance on T&T's competitiveness in regional
markets in light of corresponding regimes operating within CAPUCOM;



-80-                            APPENDIX C
f) the impact on domestic industries of removing items from the negative list and
the practical significance for T&T's regional competitiveness of the existing
duty exemption regime; and
g) a study measuring the direct and indirect content of indirect taxes on exports
and introduction of a rebate system, if warranted, with a view to providing a
free trade status to exporters to enhance T&T's international competitiveness
in exports.
34.   The In-House Trade Consultant assisted the RSU supervise the work of the
consultants, helped evaluate their recommendations, and contributed to the preparation of
Cabinet Minute No. 2834 of November 12, 1993 setting forth the consultant's
recommendations.
35.   Outcome. To encourage diversification toward non-oil/gas sectors, the
Government has undertaken comprehensive reforms in the trade and exchange rate
regimes and in the investment environment. The trade regime has been liberalized with
elimination of quantitative restrictions, surcharges and stamp duties on non-agricultural
goods and a phase reduction of the import duty band to 5-30 percent in 1995 with
planned reduction to 5-20 percent by 1998 in line with its CARICOM partners. Custom
procedures have been streamlined (see ASYCUDA para. 40) and restrictions on foreign
exchange transitions have been eliminated.
36.   The objectives of trade reform, including removal of trade and payments
restrictions and simplification of trade procedures and tariff structures, were exceeded.
Except for certain primary agricultural commodities, the negative list was dismantled and
replaced by a system of tariffs. A rebate system to afford exporters access to inputs at
international prices was fully implemented. These measures contributed significantly
towards improving efficiency, addressing the anti-export bias and integrating the
manufacturing sector into the international economy. Non-oil manufacturing exports have
begun to show some growth in response to the changes introduced.
37.   The TAL Study informed a proposal for a medium-term tariff reform program
submitted to Cabinet in November 1992 aimed at achieving SAL objectives, including
achievement of CARICOM Common External Tariff (removal of import surcharges). The
trade regime is essentially determined by the CARICOM arrangement. The Cabinet
agreed in November 1992 that all exemptions be removed by end- 1994.
38.   The agricultural sector, which has lagged in the reform process, still suffers from
trade protection, price controls, subsidies, unchanged laws governing land tenure, and an
inefficient, state owned sugar enterprise, Caroni, Ltd. The Government has lifted trade
barriers on some agricultural goods but now must address the major problems of land
tenure reform (under the IDB Agricultural Sector Loan) and the existence of Caroni, Ltd.
The IDB operation will also address the agricultural policy framework including trade
policy.



-81-                            APPENDIX C
39.   Future Activities. The SSU looked at the potential impact on unemployment of
revision of the trade regime; anticipated industries that might be affected. Training of
displaced workers was subsequently taken up under the IDB's Investment Sector Loan
(ISL). The Ministry of Trade has also continued trade facilitation efforts, including by
moving forward on recommendations of the recently completed TAL-financed
Development Thrust Study.
VI.  TAL Loan Agreement Part 7 - (h) training ofpersonnel and acquisition and
utilization of equipment to support thJe implementation of an improved customs
administration
40.   ASYCUDA. A condition of second tranche SAL release was that the
Government have made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in facilitating trade through
improvement in import and export procedures and introduction of the UNCTAD
designed Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA). Second tranche release of
the IDB's ISL was also dependent upon successful installation of the ASYCUDA. While
the Bank's TAL provided assistance for implementation of the ASYCUDA, US Customs
and UNCTAD advisers, financed by a regional UNDP project helped in simplifying and
improving customs procedures.
41.   The ASYCUDA, which a system for processing Customs declarations, collecting
and accounting for customs duty and taxes on imports and generating trade statistics, has
now been installed at all seven planned sites: Pt. Lisas Estates, PIARCO International
Airport, Port of Spain (HQ), Port of Spain (Docks), San Fernando, Point a Pierre, and
Scarborough in Tobago. These sites have been interconnected through dedicated lines or
dial-up links. Customs and Excise is now in the process of discarding the dial-up links
and integrating Scarborough. There were only two (2) dial-up links; to Pointe-a-Pierre
and Scarborough. Pointe-a-Pierre has since been integrated into the Leased Line Network
and is controlled from the central server at Head Quarters in Port-of-Spain. This exercise
should be completed by early July, 1997. However, the dial-up link has been successful
except for on-line activity which is not possible in the dial-up mode. UNCTAD provided
technical advice, training and trouble shooting assistance for the implementation of the
system.
42.   Outcome. The ASYCUDA has helped in increasing the efficiency of the
Customs and Excise Department (CED) in processing import declarations, collecting
related taxes and duties and releasing shipments to importers. This has reduced the time
required to complete Customs formalities. At the same time the Departmental
management has better control over day to day operations. The system has also improved
the availability, timeliness and reliability of trade and revenue statistics. The information
generated by the system is being used by the MOF, CSO, the Central Bank, Ministry of
Consumer Affairs, Tourism and Industrial Development Company (TIDCO) and some
private parties as well. Legislative changes, however, are needed to introduce the



-82-                            APPENDIX C
Inventory Control Module, the Direct Trader Input (DRI) and to strengthen sanctions for
errors in declarations(see below).
43.   Future Operations. The CED will continue to make incremental improvements
in the existing system and may eventually install ASYCUDA's improved (Plus Plus)
system. This system comes with a relational data base as part of the platform, has a
windows driven environment, and a risk assessment module that would further cut
processing time. Consideration will have to be given to the cost of new software,
replacement of existing equipment, and training (estimated at about US$1.0 to 1.5
million). However, immediate plans to install Plus Plus are on hold because:
(i)    UNCTAD has reported general difficulty in its application in many
countries since the development of suitable software packages for use by
Carrier Agents has not taken place. Adoption of the module at this time is
more likely to frustrate the entry procedure and may well cause further
delay in clearance procedures.
(ii)   Built-n security measures in ASYCUDA do not permit modifications or
amendments to a cargo manifest after it is confirmed. This indicates that
carriers must be very precise in their preparation of transport documents
and further, exporters must also be precise in the description of
commodities exported to Trinidad and Tobago. It is the experience of
Trinidad and Tobago that exporters from many countries have not
responded adequately to this requirement. Therefore, the mere design of
legislative instruments to facilitate the introduction of this module would
not suffice.
Proposals for speedy clerance supported by POST CLEARANCE
AUDTING are soon to be implemented and risks codes have been
developed. The feedback mechanism for the development of these codes
is now being reviewed and modifications are to be irnplemented shortly.
Customs and Excise initiated a programme for the implementation of the Direct Trader
Input (DTI) facility in January, 1997. The following activities have been completed:
(i)   Legislation was passed in 1996 whereby electronically recorded data are
now accepted as elements of a legal document, however, regulations with
respect to the submission of such data by traders are yet to be formulated.
(ii)   Two (2) members of the System Administration Staff have visited Malta
and obsenred procedures relative to DTI, however, from the technical
standpoint, expertise is required from UNCTAD to assist in its application
It is recommended that a Technical Assistance Agreement be concluded
with IJNCTAD for the provision, on shor term, of an acceptable ADP
Expert to assist in its implementation. Attached for reference is a matrix



-83-                            APPENDIX C
of actions required for the implementation of DTI and their status.
UNCTAD has already been approached on this matter and are now in the
process of formulating proposals for consideration by the Government of
Trinidad and Tobago to give effect to this.
(iii)  A policy to strengthen sanctions for errors by traders in declarations
submitted for approval is yet to be developed. Inefficiency in the
preparation of declarations by traders most definitely will prejudice the
successful implementation of DTI, in addition, it will affect the accuracy
of data extracted for statistics.
Customs and Excise in collaboration with UNCTAD have been successful in the
maintenance of the System. More "user-friendly" facilities have been added to the
system which facilitates its management. With respect to UNCTAD's improved (Plus
Plus) the following should be noted:
(i)   UNCTAD is not recommending automatic migration to Plus Plus.
UNCTAD intends to effect a diagnostic study of each country's
procedures and requirements before offering version Plus Plus. This
indicates that a radical review and suitable design of procedures must be
done before migration to Plus Plus. The reason for this is that, while Plus
Plus enhances management of the system through a Windows driven
environment and a more enhanced risk management module, it is far less
flexible than Version 2xx in accomodating amendments to confirmed
documents.
(Ii) The cost of adopting Plus Plus, which is high, includes equipment,
training, time to construct the Control Tables on Plus Plus. At present,
export of the existing database from Version 2 to Plus Plus is not possible.
This means that the two-year exercise in constructing tables would have to
be repeated; as an example, the recoreds of over thirteen thousand (13,000)
registered importer/exporters would have to be entered anew. In view of
the fact that UNCTAD has taken the decision to continue, in a limited
way, the development of Version 2 (Version 2.62 is due for release iii
September, 1997) while at the same time developing Plus Plus, it is
recommended that migration to Plus Plus be deferred until the migration
problem is solved and the program is properly debugged and, the review
and implementation of procedures is completed.



-84-                            APPENDIX C
VII.  TAL LOANAGREEMENTPARTA 8: Carrying out a review ofrelevant
-petroleum &kgtian and regulations affecting the concessionary and other system of
contracts, royalty payments, andpetroleum taxation to assess the Borrower's
competitiveness for encouraging increased private sector investment in the petroleum
industry and making recommendations for improvement, where necessary.
44.   Petroleum Legislation Review. Satisfactory progress in conducting the review
was a condition of second tranche SAL release. The objective of the review was to
determine the relative competitiveness of the existing regime in attracting further private
sector involvement in the petroleum industry and, where appropriate, make
recommendations for improvement.
45.   The TAL financed about 12 person-months of consultants to review legislation
affecting concession licensing, contracts, royalties, and taxation to help the Government
assess the country's competitiveness for encouraging increased private investment in the
sector, and to make recommendations for improvement, where necessary. The TAL
consultants reviewed legislation affecting production sharing contracts and taxation and
made recommendations for improving GORTT's ability to attract private investment.
The consultants also recommended model licenses and production sharing contract forms
and made recommendations on improvements to acreage management, clarifications on
the respective roles of the Ministry of Energy and Mines and the State Oil Company, and
audit capabilities and the Inland Revenue Department. The Senior State Counsel (Mrs.
Joyce Lynch) of the Ministry of Energy visited the Law Firm of Clifford Chance, London
from October to November 1994 (as recommended by Pleasant) to enhance expertise in
contract negotiations and drafting model contracts, lease agreements, an regulations. This
training proved to be quite useful.
46.  Under the SSU component ECLAC (Caribbean Development and Co-operation
Committee) completed an "Overview of the Socio-Economic Impact and Implications of
the Petroleum Sector". They concluded, based on a Review of the consultant's "Interim
Report: Petroleum Study for the Government of T&T" that the technical and legal
changes recommended could impact quite positively on the socio-economic environment
within the sector, and in view of the pivotal role played by the petroleum sector in the
economy. Specifically, the consultants' report offered ways in which employment
opportunities might be expanded which in tum might offer employment opportunities to
redundant oil sector workers if the state companies in the petroleum sector were to be
restructured along the lines recommended. The consultants' (Pleasant) paper noted
region-specific nature of the petroleum sector activities, recognizing the potential for
geographic dislocation of workers and families, unless appropriate and timely adjustment
enhancing policies and strategies were formulated and implemented.
47.   Outcome. The review and analysis was beneficial in assisting the Government in
assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the prevailing arrangements. The Petroleum
Taxes Act was amended in 1992. The overall fiscal package was modified to address the
major concerns of existing operators. The changes in the petroleum taxation regime and



-85-                            APPENDIX C
leasing conditions have been favorably received by the industry. There has been strong
investor interest and an increase in exploration activity, including the signing of
license/contracts with UNOCAL and British Gas and are under consideration by US,
Canadian and Spanish firms for the development of separate blocks in the east coast
marine area.
48.  In addition, the PARCA software acquired from the consultants under the TAL
has proven to be particularly useful as it allows of a quick comparative of the proposals
during contract/lease negotiations. The Government intends to use it extensively in
developing attractive terms for inclusion in the invitation documents for blocks which
would be offered for Competitive Bidding. The Government is also adopting the Model
License form and the Model Production Sharing Contracts developed by the TAL
consultants.
49.   The consultants' work has yielded positive long-term results. Sustainability will
depend to some extent on follow-through on the consultants' recommendation that
salaries in the Ministry of Energy be brought more in line with the private sector in order
to attract and retain qualified staff to administer contracts. There has been considerable
turnover in engineering and geology as a result of non-competitive salaries.
50.   Future Operation. In the oil and gas sector, the Government's strategy has been
to reopen the sector to private development through tax incentives, a new regulatory
framework and encouragement of foreign investmnent to stimulate exploration activities to
improve secondary yields. The Government has divested its enterprises producing urea
methanol and is rationalizing the operations of its petroleum enterprises with IDB
assistance as a first step towards seeking joint ventures and divestment of some
operations. As a result of these initiatives, foreign investments of $750 million were
negotiated in 1994 and feasibility studies are presently underway for exporting liquid
natural gas.
51.   An In-House Petroleum Consultant, assisted the RSU supervise and review the
work of the consultants.
VIII. TAL LOANAGREEMENTPARTA10. Carryingoutadditionalstudies,
training, technical assistance, and equipment acquisition and utilization, acceptable to
the Bank, as may be required to foster the objectives of the Project.
52.   Study of the Institutional Framework to Support TT's Overall Development
Thrust (Rationalization of Central Government Entities/Post-Adjustment Institutional
Review). This study grew out of government recognition that the new role of the state as
facilitator of economic activity should be spearheaded by the private sector, and that
institutional changes had not kept pace with trade liberalization and other structural
changes. This study was commissioned by MOPAD and carried out by an international
consulting frm.



-86-                            APPENDIX C
53.   The objectives were (i) to ensure that there is an adequate network of business
support services to facilitate strong growth and diversification and to help producers meet
the challenge resulting from having to break into international markets and operate in a
more competitive domestic environment; (ii) to ensure that the role of public institutions
engaged in the provision of support services is brought in line with the reorientation and
restructuring of the economy (the study was to recommend elimination of inefficiencies,
especially in statutory bodies and special development entities); and (iii) to eliminate
inefficiencies and improve the effectiveness of those public institutions which are relied
upon to facilitate and provide support services for domestic producers.
54.   Outcome. The report identifies service gaps that should be promoted by GORTT
or the private sector; services that no longer should be offered by the GORTT: and
restructuring of various government institutions involved in providing business support
services to the private sector. Institutions addressed included the Food and Drugs
Division; Plant Quarantine Division; Tourism and Industrial Development Company
(TIDCO); CARIRI; and the Bureau of Standards. OPAD felt that the report may have
reflected the views of the private sector without expressing an independent judgment and
may not have gone far enough in recommending specific government entities that have
outlived their usefulness. The report does, however, recommend several mergers, and
would complement BEIRL initiatives. A Cabinet Note is being drafted by MOPAD with
the aim of sensitizing Cabinet to the recommendations proposed in the Study, and the
feasibility of the implementation of these recommendations, within the short medium and
long-term.
55.   The consultants point out that among the impediments to non-oil sector
development is the time it takes to get goods through or out of customs (addressed under
the ASYCUDA component); exporting perishables is a problem. The issuance of
certificates of origin is handled by four separate government entities and is another major
bottleneck. The consultants' report makes specific recommendations:
(a)   Government should not compete with individual firms to provide services.
The goal should be to develop a functioning and effective private market
for business support services. They did not believe that TIDCO should
provide business support services.
SERVICE GAPS
(b)   Government should establish guidelines for its involvement in business
support services.
(c)   Businesses require more in-depth production and marketing assistance to
adapt products for export, identify markets, and reach buyers in those
markets.
(d)   The main industry subsector undeserved is the non-traditional agricultural
exports subsector.



-87-                            APPENDIX C
(e)   Govemment organizations are providing a narrow arrange of business
support services focused on materials testing and certifications of export,
but are not fully equipped to handle the increasing volume of requests for
exporters.
RECOMMENDATIONS
(f)   The existing export-oriented cost sharing grant scheme located at TIDCO
should be implemented quickly.
(g)   The process for obtaining certificates of origin for exports should be
simplified.
(h)   Staffing facilities, equipment and procedures for the food and drugs
Inspectorate and for Plan Quarantine Division must be improved in order
to handle the increased volume of exports.
(i)   The Government should commit itself to improving and formalizing
dialogue with the private sector.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF DISCONTINUATION OF GOVERNMENT
PROVIDED SERVICES
(j)   Public funding should not be used for direct financing for trade shows and
missions.
(k)   The Government should not expend resources developing a trade leads
service to assist firms to contact potential buyers.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ORGANIZATIONAL
RESTRUCTURING
(1)   Managing cost sharing grant scheme should be the core of TIDCO's
business support service functions.
(m)   The potential merger of the Bureau of Standards and CARIRI could
provide important synergy and should be seriously considered.
(n)   The Government should consider restructuring the Food and Drugs
Inspectorate and a more autonomous body able to administer at least in
part its own budget.
56.   Outcome. Although the Cabinet Note putting forth the consultant's
recommendations remains to be prepared, some recommendations have already been



-88-                            APPENDIX C
implemented. GORTT is moving toward turning business support services over to the
private sector. There is agreement that support services should be demand driven and
that the market will determine the nature ofd the services. There have been upgrades
under the BEIRL in the chemistry, Food and Drug Division and Laboratory facilities.
The 1997 Budget includes upgrading of cargo facilities at PIARCO (airport) and Crown
Point. Cost-sharing grants have been implemented at TIDCO, with full cost recovery
required in the case of some services. Export certification requirements are under review
by TIDCO, and the Ministry of Trade and Industry is committed to simplifying the
processes surrounding certificates of origin as pat of the follow-through on the Trade
Facilitation work begun with the Trade Study in the early years of the TAL.
57.   Future Activities. The BEIRL has a component which aims to enable TTBS and
CARIRI to provide national industry with international recognized industrial standards,
quality management, metrology and testing services. The BEIRL has also financed the
upgrading of the trade related testing services of the Chemistry, Food and Drug Lab of
the Ministry of Health.
58.   Preparation of the Bank's Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring
Project (BEIRL) (3432-TR). The Irish Science and Technology Agency worked with
the T&T Bureau of Standards to identify equipment to be purchased under the BEIRL
and develop tender documents. A senior Bureau staff member also had short training at
the Irish Institute. These activities were financed by the TAL prior to BEIRL
effectiveness in support of that project's objectives to improve T&T's technical standards
and ability to compete in export markets. The $27.0 million BEIRL was approved in
December 1991 and became effective in March 1993. Its objectives include development
and/or restructuring of private manufacturing service firms (except oil and gas),
especially to compete in export markets.
59.   Future Activities. The BEIRL has a component which aims to enable TTBS and
CARIRI to provide national industry with internationally recognized industrial standards,
quality management, metrology and testing services. The BEIRL also has financed the
upgrading of the trade related testing services of the Chemistry, Food and Drug Lab of
the Ministry of Health.
60.   Preparation of the Bank's Environmental Management Project (3863-TR).
The TAL financed a consultant who prepared a policy brief and framework for
environmental legislation which formed the basis for the establishment of Trinidad's first
Environmental Management Agency (EMA). The agency is to consolidate
environmental oversight responsibilities now disbursed through the government. The
consultant's work focused on policy and standards and prepared revisions to existing
legislation to eliminate conflicting and or overlapping functions. The work was of high
quality and complemented other work financed by UNDP, UNEP, and the IDB. The
Bank's $6.25 million Environmental Management Project was approved in March 1995.
It supports improvements in the institutional and legal framework for environmental



-89-                            APPENDIX C
management including the establishment and operation of the EMA; a public awareness
program, and environmental studies. It is proceeding satisfactorily.
61.   Property Tax Reform. In October 1993, it was decided to initiate a
comprehensive reform of property tax policy and administration by utilizing funds
available under the TAL. The objective of the reform was to create an equitable, efficient
and effective property tax system that would facilitate voluntary compliance and enable
local governments to raise a greater proportion of their financing needs locally, thereby
reducing their dependence on central government subsidies. The closing date of the TAL
was accordingly extended by one year to December 31, 1996 to enable GORTT to
undertake Phase I of the reform effort.
62.   The current system of property taxation, based on Annual Rental Value (ARV),
suffers from inequity and regressivity. Properties falling under the jurisdiction of
municipalities are taxed differently from those located in the rest of country. Tax rates
between municipalities are also not uniform. Valuations underlying tax assessment have
not been revised in 60 years. While old properties continue to be taxed on the basis of
their original low valuations, new properties are taxed on the basis of significantly higher
valuations. The yield from property has fallen steadily to less than 1% of total revenue,
which is low in comparison with developed countries and other middle income
developing counties. This necessitates subsidies from the central government to cover
more than 80% of the operating expenses of local governments, causing the inevitable
erosion of the latter's autonomy. Property tax administration is very weak. The level of
skills within the Valuation Division, that has the principal responsibility for valuing
properties subject to tax, is low and no formal training has taken place since 1967, nor has
any new staff been hired since 1970. The operations of other offices engaged in the
assessment and collection of property tax are mostly manual, leading to inefficiencies in
billing and collection. Enforcement actions against defaulters are sporadic, causing
accumulation of tax arrears equal to four of five times the annual collections. Tax
payment procedures impose significant compliance costs on taxpayers. The level of
assistance provided to taxpayers is inadequate.
63.  Outcome. Phase I of the reform focused on the design, development and pilot
testing of a new property tax system, based on Improved Capital Value instead of ARV.
An automated Geographical Information System(GIS) was developed to map properties.
A Computer Assisted Mass Appraisal (CAMA) System was developed to carry out
valuation of the properties using market-calibrated valuation models. Further, a Tax
Billing and Collection System was developed to automate these functions. Phase I
included mapping and valuation of properties at two pilot sites: 15,000 parcels at Arima
and 60 properties at the Point Lisas Industrial Estate.
9.   In addition, the legislative framework was reviewed and recommendations
regarding changes required to implement the new system were developed. The
organizational structure relating to the functions of discovery, valuation, assessment,
billing, collection and appeals was examined and a revised structure designed. Training



-90-                            APPENDIX C
in different aspects of the new system was provided to staff of the Central and Local
Governments. Finally, a strategy for public relations and taxpayer assistance was
developed to facilitate the implementation of the new system. As a result of activities of
Phase I, GORTT now has the basis to implement the new system through out the country,
in Phase II.
64.   Future Operation. GORTT is considering requesting funding Phase II from the
proceeds of the proposed Bank Public Sector Strengthening Operation to be appraised in
during the first half of FY98. The Cabinet Note required to move ahead with Phase II,
however, is still under preparation. The Property Tax Aide Memoir of December 20,
1997, included as Attachment   to this ICR, outlines the critical actions GORTT will
need to take before proceeding with Phase II, including the assigning of computer literate
counterparts and considerations of how pay might be made sufficient to attract and retain
suitable staff (e.g. via creation of a parastatal or contracting out). None has been taken to
date. Delays in implementing Phase II is likely to limit the long-term usefulness of the
progress made in Phase I. The knowledge of staff trained in the new computer systems
will attenuate sharply due to lack of use of the systems. And, property tax reform may
end up on the back burner, as in the past when reform efforts were aborted either due to
political pressure or change in government priorities. On the other hand, if Phase II is
taken to a successful conclusion, there not only be a major improvement in the property
tax regime in the country, but also significant collateral benefits for T&TEC, WASA,
Health Planning, the Post Office, and the Central Statistical Office.
XII. SOCIAL AMELIORATION PROGRAM
TAL Loan Agreement PART BI: SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRAM - Assisting the Social
Sector Unit (SSU) to support the Borrower's efforts to strengthen socialpolicies and
programs, and to mitigate the social costs of the medium-term adjustment program.
TAL LOANAGREEMENTPart B 2. Carrying out thefollowing activities:
(a) review public expenditures on the social sectors to improve the targeting and
effectiveness of existing social services and the provision of a desirable
minimum level of services, especially to the poor and vulnerable groups;
65.   The Social Sector Expenditure Review was intended to provide information to
protect the provision of a desirable minimum level of services, especially targeting the
poor. It was completed by UNECLAC. It included an action plan for improving
effectiveness and targeting, reducing government expenditures and improving
expenditures within the social sectors. The programs examined included health,
education, housing, vocational training, small business development, special assistance to
youths, special food programs, school meals, social security and varying forms of
assistance to vulnerable groups.



-91-                            APPENDIX C
66.   Outcome. The study was seen to be both useful and timely because it covered the
period during which economic restructuring was introduced and presented analysis
which, in some cases, was carried out for the first time in Trinidad and Tobago. Many of
the current reforms in the social sectors have stemmed from the findings of this study. In
health, the Health Sector Reform Programme which was later instituted in 1995 is
targeted to address the concerns of decision making and management inefficiency which
were highlighted in the Report. In the area of youth training, several initiatives have
emerged. These include the YTEPP program (discussed below), the Civilian
Conservation Corps, and the Youth Agricultural Credit and Training Program. These
programs are targeted to youth from low income households in an attempt to provide
them with skills training in order to enter the labor market. In education the Report
highlighted the issue of decreasing allocation of the sector and the need to improve
management and institutional capacity. To address the issues in this critical sector, the
Government entered into a loan agreement with the World Bank for a Basic Education
Project. Finally, the report served as important background in the preparation of the
Community Development Fund Programme (IDB loan) which provides financing of
community projects aimed at low income beneficiaries.
(b)   prepare an operation to strengthen, inter alia, the employment prospects
of unemplovedvouith. particularly in concert with small business development and you
insertion programs;
67.   Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP). The SSU
was instrumental in the design, studies and costing of the Loan (Ln. 3328-TR, US$31.9
million). As part of this effort YTEPP was strengthened to provide training and skills to
youth to increase their employment prospects. Using consultants provided by NIHERST
a bill was drafted for the establishment of YTEPP as a legal entity, curriculum and
materials were prepared for attitudinal development training, plans were prepared for the
development of a labor market information system, and existing plans, policies and
strategies were reviewed to ensure integration. The SSU also carried out work on two
other linked activities including the Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilization program
(AIM) designed to place youth in apprenticeship work situations, and the Youth
Enterprise Support System (YESS) which successfully funded 128 new youth enterprises
and established a skills banks. Plans to strengthen the Each Community Helping Out
(ECHO) feeding program were also developed under the SSU as a mechanism for
expanding assistance to vulnerable groups during the adjustment period. Responsibility
for implementing the ECHO program was with the Ministry of Social Development.
68.   Outcome. The YTEPP project has thus far been successful at providing many
unemployed youth with training and some with supervised work experience, and has
played an important role in mitigating the impact of adjustment and the high
unemployment rates for this vulnerable group. Approximately 10,000 youth are trained
annually, with graduates going on to employment in the formal sector, to self-



-92-                            APPENDIX C
employment activities, and further training. A portion of the graduates also remain
unemployed. Two current shortcomings of the success of the YTEPP training relate to
the discontinuation of the Labor Market Information System (LMIS) (discussed below)
and the low apprenticeship placement rates. While in existence, the LMIS had provided
useful information to YTEPP for planning its education and training activities. The
YESS and AIM programs have been less successful and were thus discontinued. AIM
was absorbed by a national apprenticeship program and YESS has been replaced by
services delivered through the Small Business Development Corporation (SBDC) and
Fund Aid. The SBDC has recently benefited from a grant from EU which is specifically
targeted at youth.
69.   As a result of the studies used to prepare the Bank loan, the strengthening of the
ECHO program was conceived and facilitated by the SSU. The program, comprised of a
feeding component and a developmental component aimed at rehabilitation was
administered by the Ministry of Social Development which utilized NGO groups for the
delivery of services. The program has generally been successful and is still in existence
under the name SHARE. It was expanded considerably with funding under the social
sector component of the IDB's investment sector loan (ISL).
(a) formulate a svstem to generate information to assist the Borrower in assessing
programs designed to protect the poor and vulnerable groups on an ongoing
basis;
70.   The Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) was successfully developed and tested
by the in the early years of the TAL (1991) by the Central Statistical Office (CSO) in
compliance with SAL conditionality as well as requirements of the IDB's Investment
Sector Operation with the help of ECLAC. It was part of the effort to identify vulnerable
groups and better target social programs. A survey of 1600 households was carried out by
the Central Statistical Office. The data was then released to the Ministry of Planning and
Development, the RSU, and the Ministry of Social Development. Due to the lack of an
official institutional home and the capacity for in-depth analysis, there were long delays
in analyzing the data from the SLC. Three separate initiatives were started within
Government to analyze the data; several reports were produced by the RSU, a poverty
study was completed by the Ministry of Social Development, and some analysis was
carried out by the Ministry of Planning. None of the documents were disseminated or
discussed due to a lack of confidence in the results and political concerns. In September
1996 Parliament approved the Poverty report prepared by Social Development. The
completion of a report on the SLC was also a condition for the effectiveness of the IDB
Investment Sector Loan.
71.   Outcome. While there have been significant delays in full analysis of the SLC,
the survey was critical input to the World Bank's poverty Assessment (Poverty and
Unemployment in An Oil Based Economy, Report No. 14382-TR). This report was



-93-                                  APPENDIX C
discussed extensively with the Government during the preparation phase and upon
completion. It has been utilized by various Ministries and discussed in Parliament, and
was used as input for the IDB's country strategy paper. The Ministry of Planning has
also begun plans to institutionalize the SLC to assist in its policy planning, evaluating the
impact of policies and programs on the population. Accordingly, it has made a formal
request to the World Bank for grant funding to assist in this area. An IDF proposal has
recently been approved whereby the grant will support further government capacity to
analyze the data generated by the next round of the SLC to be carried out in 1997.
(a)
develop a framework including afinancing plan, for further development of
the social securitv svstem;
72.   Report of the Social Security System4: Two reports on the social security
system and social safety net completed by the ILO identified issues requiring reform and
development and included a financing plan, analyzed current programs and benefits with
an aim to identify major gaps, constraints and costs associated with them. The first,
"Programmes Administered by the National Insurance Board of Trinidad and Tobago,"
contains details of the various social insurance programs which are administered by the
NIB: the scope and coverage of the NIS, how and by whom contributions are paid, the
administrative aspects of NIB operations, and alternatives for consideration of reforming
the social security system. The final report includes recommendations on non-
contributory programs, NIB contributory schemes, possible evolution of an
unemployment scheme, and the link of social security with the national health insurance
scheme. The second study, "Report on the Social Security System" reviews the non-
contributory schemes of the social safety net.
73.    Outcome. Several recommendations from these reports have been considered,
with Cabinet notes prepared based on the findings. While major policy changes have not
yet been implemented, they have been useful in setting forth several options for reform
and some improvements in the NIB. The lack of policy change in social security appears
to be due to a lack of political will. Reforms in pension policy, both non-contributory
and contributory would have perhaps gone further at this point if an itter-ministerial
committee including the National Insurance Board had been established. The preparation
4 The World Bank Report: Trinidad and Tobago - Macroeconomic Assessment and Review of Public
Sector Reform and Expenditures: The Changing Role of the State, Report No. 1 587-TR, of June 28,
1996, includes a section on the Pension System which takes into account this work. The report
emphasizes the fact that the private sector has efficiently filled the gap left by the decline in NIB
coverage and recommends that any reform of the pension system avoid measures which would have a
negative impact on the provision of private pensions. The report recommends that Government
improve the regulatory framework of the financial and insurance sectors and proposes that the
Government consider defining the national social insurance scheme as a targeted safety net rather
than a general entitlement; and that the civil service pension system be converted into a fully funded
and portable scheme to facilitate mobility of labor from the public to the private sector.



-94-                            APPENDIX C
of the social welfare report was particularly noted for the close collaboration between the
consultant and those involved at the Ministry of Social Development. This helped to
develop a sense of ownership and articulate an agenda for reform by the staff.
TAL LOANAGREEMENTPARTB 4. Carrying out additional studies, training,
technical assistance and equipment acquisition and utilization, acceptable to the Bank,
as may be required to foster the objectives of the Project.
74.   A Labor Market Information System (LMIS) was developed as an input for
reading labor market signals and curricula design (under 3328-TR). It is also important
to the generation of information for the design of other social programs. Two reports on a
LMIS were produced by the SSU and used by several ministries and YTEPP. The
information in these reports was considered to be somewhat dated, but useful. Following
the disbanding of the SSU no further work was done on tile LMIS. While the Ministry of
Labor and Cooperatives was intended to follow-up on this activity, no training,
equipment or resources were allocated for this purpose with the exception of one 286
computer.
75.   Outcome. Under the Investment Sector Loan of the IDB resources have been
committed to a National Human Resources Management Information System. This
initiative, which has been somewhat delayed and is now scheduled to begin in late 1997,
will draw on some of the work carried out by the LMIS.
76.   Reviews of the Social Impact of adjustment on the utilities, trade and
petroleum sectors: Two reports entitled "Social Implications and Impact of the
Restructuring of Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission" and "An Overview of the
Socio-Economic Impact and Implications of the Petroleum Sector Interim Report" were
completed by UNECLAC. The trade report and report on the impact of adjustment on
state owned enterprises were not completed due to a change in Government, though Ms.
Neil reviewed the reports of Ernst and Young and Robert Pleasant Associates with her
recommendations incorporated into their final reports.
77.   Outcome. The reports were useful in identifying the impact of adjustment on the
studied sectors and in sensitizing those involved in these non-social sectors on some of
the important issues to be addressed. Many of the recommendations set forth in these
reports were absorbed as evident, for example, through a change in the rate structure for
electricity services including special consideration for tariff levels for the poor and the
provision of training for displaced workers in the petroleum sector.






IMAGING
Report No.:        1
Type:    ICR



