Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A fi    3 / ZS   3   - T*                  Repwt No. P-5123-TR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.0 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1989
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                              Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US$1.00 - TT$4.25
TT$1.00 = US$0.23
MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)=              2.47 acres
1 Square meter (m2)=        10.76 square .eet
1 Square kilometer (km2)=   0.39 square meters
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA   -   Automated System for Customs Data
CSO       -    Central Statistical Office
EC        -    European Community
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LSMS      -    Living Standard Measurement Survey
MOET      -   Ministry of Industry, Enterprise and Tourism
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOPAM     -    Ministry of Planning and Mobilization
OAS       -    Organization of American States
PSIP      -    Public Sector Investment Program
PUC       -    Public Utilities Commission
RSU       -    Restructuring Support Unit
SAL       -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SOEs      -    Statements of Expenditure
SOE Unit  -    State Owned Enterprise Unit
SSU       -    Social Sectors Unit
TA        -    Technical Assistance
TAL       -    Technical Assistance Loan
TOR       -    Terms of Reference
T&T       -    Trinidad and Tobago
T&TEC     -    Trinidad & Tobago Electricity Commission
UNDP      -    United Natioi,s Development Program
VTEP      -    Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan
WASA      -    Water and Sewerage Authority



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECENICAL ASSUSTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Pro1ect Summara
Borrowers                     Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Beneficiary:                  Ministry of Planning and Mobilization and the
Ministry of the Economy
Amount:                       US$4.0 million equivalent
Term:                         Fifteen years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Financint Plan:               Government          US$ 1.2 mlIlion
IBBD                US$ 4.0 mlllion
Total:            USS 5.2 million
Economic Rate of Returns      N.A.
Staff Am,raisal Relorts       N.A.
MaiCas                        IBRD 20573R
This document has a restrkced distribution and may be used by recipiertz -u in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not othewine be disclosed wi hout % wId Bank atAhodution.



OF TaE PlSBIDEUT OF TME INTERNAUIONAU
BANK FOR ECONSTUCTION AND DEVELOHENT
TO THE EXECUTIVi DIUZCTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A TSCHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Trinidad and Tobago for US$4.0 million equivalent is submitted for your
approval. The loan would finance studies and technical assistance related
to policy areas included in the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Report
No. P-5120-TR dated November 21, 1S89) which is submitted for your approval
under separate cover. The Loan would be repayable over 15 years, including
5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable rate.
2.       Backaround.  The Government, which took office in December 1986,
inherited an economy characterized by recurrent negative growth, burgeoning
unemployment and significant economic distortions. It is now undertaking a
major adjustment effort with assistance from the nMF, World Bank and other
donors. The Government's strategy over the next three years will focus on
implementing sound and sustainable measures to help the country return to a
growth path. The centerpiece of this strategy is a structural adjustment
program, to be supported by the proposed SAL, which focuses on: (i) public
sector resource mobilization and allocation inter alia by state enterprise
restructuring and divestiture, efficiency improvements for public utilities
and improved investment programming; (ii) private sector development
through an improved incentive framework for production and export; and
(iii) strengthening social sector policies and programs including
ameliorating the social impact of adjustment inter alia through improved
coordination and targeting of social programs to protect the poor asd
vulnerable groups.
3.       The public sector in Trinidad and Tobago is large and in many
respects inefficient. A Government Team (The Rampersad Committee) and
other review committees have made reconmendations for restructuring and
divestment of several enterprises. The decisions taken by the Government
are now being implemented. The power company suffers from serious
deficiencies in its operational and financial management, and the water and
sewerage authority constitutes a particularly heavy burden on the budget.
Their performance is expected to be improved as a part of the SALITAL
supported program. Major future public sector investments will also be
subject to financial, technical, economic and environmental analysis as a
part of the Government's program to improve formulation and management of
the public sector investment program. The private sector needs to be
invigorated by rationalizing the incentives framework and by investment
promotion (both for domestic and foreign investment). Reforms are needed
in the trade regime emphasizing export development. These are being
undertaken in the context of the SAL/TAL program. Incentives for
attracting investment, both domestic and foreign, including establishment
of a *one-stop-shopl facility have been instituted and are being
strengthened. The SAL program also supports improvement in these areas.



-2-
4.       The structural adjustment program will Impose additional strains
on the country's population and vill have to be managed carefully. In the
short-term, unemployment is likely to increase (from the present level of
more than 23X) and incomes, particularly of fixed income groups, will fall.
It is the Government's policy that the burden of adjustment be shared
equitably among all sections of society. The Government's past strategy of
adjustment has been to retain the same broad share (albeit of a declining
total) of expenditures on social safety net type programs, and to control
the prices of essential foodstuffs, school books and pharmaceuticals. For
example, old age pensions, social assistance and food subsidies, and the
school feeding program have remained at about 52 of total recurrent
expenditure, representing a halving in real terms. The Government is now
formulating social policies and strategies in support of the overall reform
effort, especially the provision of a desirable minimum level of services
to the poor and vulnerable groups. This effort will also be supported by
the SALITAL.
5.       Activities to be implemented under the Government's structural
adjustment program will require the active participation and support of
several Government Ministries and Agencies. The TAL will, in addition to
providing support to these government agencies, also support the
preparation of possible future related Bank operations. A proposed Trade
and Finance operation would aim to complete the trade reforms initiated
under the SAL and would support the restructuring of the financial sector.
A proposed Social Sectors Project would be prepared in paralell. These
operations would be followed by a proposed Public Enterprise
Adjustment/Private Sector Development operation which would target further
efficiency improvements in the public enterprise sector and private sector
development. Accompanying the latter operation would be a proposed
Industry Restructuring and Development Project.
6.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The main focus of Bank activity,
upon resumlng lending to Trinidad and Tobago, is to support the structural
adjustment process. The Government does not have In place sufficient
Institutional capacity to ensure effective design and implementation of the
overall adjustment program or to design and prepare the necessary
complement of social programs, both of which are critical to maintenance of
the adjustment effort. The project's provision of consultant services and
other inputs to help prepare and guide the policy and Institutional reforms
would help ensure the level of skills needed to carry out effectively the
Government's program, particularly measures directly relating to the SAL,
and to formulate action programs to cushion the social costs of adjustment.
7.       Prolect Obiectives.  To complement the proposed SAL, the TAL would
help the Governments (i) implement its medium-term adjustment programt
(Li) strengthen social sector policies and programs, including the design
and preparation of programs to cushion the impact of adjustment; and
(iii) prepare possible future Bank operations,
8.       Proiect Description. The project would support the establishment
of a Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) and a Social Sectors Unit (SSU) In
the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization. For each Unit, the TAL would
finance long- and short-term national and international consultants to work
with local Government staff, as well as equipment. The RSU would focus on



-3-
implementing the reforms supported by the SAL as well as other aspects of
the Government's adjustment program and on the preparatory work for further
reforms, especially those to be supported by Bank operations. Areas of
concentration for the RSU would includes (i) assistance to the Ministry of
Finance on implementation of state enterprise reforms; (ii) a management,
financial and operational audit of the Power Authority; (iii) investmte
project preparation assistance to the dinistry of Planning and Mobilization
complementary to IDB's assistance to improve public sector investment
programming; (iv) support for trade reform through studies of trade and
related policies, measuremunt of the Indirect tax content of exports, and
strengthening of the system of customs administration; (v, review of the
export Incentive framework; and (vi) a review of the regulatory and
incentive framework of the petroleum sector.
9.       The SSU would focus on strengthening social sector policies and
programs, including the design and preparation of programs to cushion the
social costs of adjustment. Areas of concentration would includes
(i) review of public expenditures on the social sectors to protect the
provision of a desirable mlnimum level of services, especially targeting
the poor; (ii) preparatory work for a social sector project that could be
considered by the Bank for possible financingt (iii) Introduction of a
system to generate information on living standards in order to monitor the
effects of the adjustment on the poor and vulnerable groups and provide the
basis for improved targeting of interventionst and (iv) further development
of the social security system.
10.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about
US$5.2 million, of which US$4.0 million would be In foreign exchange, to be
financed by the Bank. The detailed cost estimates and methods of
procurement and disbursements are provided in Schedules A and S. A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank group
operations in Triidad and Tobago are given in Schedules C and D,
respectively. A map of Trinidad and Tobago is attached. Since there is no
Staff Appraisal Report, the detailed project description, and the project
administration and implementation arrangements are given in Annex 1. The
terms of reference (TOR) for major consultants were agreed during
negotiations and are available in the Project File. The consultants will
be selected In accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracting of the
consultants will be handled by the RSU and the SSU on behalf of the
Government.
11.      Agreed Actions.  Agreements have been reached ons  Ci) the
establishment, mandate, location, and staffing of the RSU and the SSUg
(ii) the hiring of a management consulting firm, perhaps in joint venture
with local firm, to help the authorities of Trinidad and Tobago administer
and implement the SAL/TAL; and (iii) TORs for all TAL-financed activities,
target dates for their completion, and the appropriate arrangements for
training of local staff.   In addition, (i) director level heads of the RMU
and the SSU have been identified; (ii) the staff in all relevant agencies
to liaise with the RMU and SSU have been identified; and (iii) the State
Owned Enterprise Unit has been established in the Ministry of Finance.
Prior to effectiveness (i) the MSU and SSU will be adequately staffed and
functioning and their directors will be appointed and in places and (ii) a
management consulting firm will be appointed.



-4-
12.      Sfits.  The proposed TAL will assist the Government design the
adjustment related reform programs and manage the timing and sequeocf lg of
their implementation. These reforms will help reduce the drain on Central
Government resources of the public enterprises and public utilities and
promote private sector expansion. Implementing social programs in parallel
with the adjustment effort should ameliorate the impact on the poor and
vulnerable groups and sustain the social cohesion necessary to m- Intaln the
adjustment effort. The TAL will also help develop the basis for designing
and implementing future adjustment measures.
13.      Risks. Major risks associated with the TAL relate tot  (i) the
adequacy of the administrative machinery to implement and take appropriate
action on the recommendations; (Ui) the capacity of the counterpart staff
and the inter-agency cooperation they are able to engender; and
(iii) potential adverse political reaction to the public sector reforms.
These risks are, however, reduced bys (i) the proposed relative
administrative autonomy of the RSU and the SSU and their strategic
placement in a Ministry key to adjustment policy decision making:
Ci) project actions have been designed with considerable participation of
key officials at both the political and administrative levels from
ministries and agencies concerned and the TOR for all TAL-finaneed
consultants include transfer of technical skills to counterparts in order
to ensure continuity and sustainabilityl and (iii) the social sectors
component is intended to cushion the social impact of adjustment.
14.      Recomuendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber D. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Dates November 21, 1989



Schedule A
Pages 1 of 2
TITA  hD ICIAlGO
SICMUxCAL ASSISTAIM PROJBCT
Estimated Costs
(US$ millions)
ESSTIMATED COSTS                               Local     Foreign      Total
CoMEultant Services
I.   Imlqementation Units
Support for ESU                            300,000      550,000     850,000
Support for SSU                            170,000      800,000     970,000
II. Public Sector Reforms
State-Owned Enterorises
Support for the SOE Unit                   148,000      200,000     348,000
Studies to prepare possible PE project      70,000      160,000     230,000
Public Utilities
Management Audit of T&TEC                   50,000      440,000     490,000
Public Sector Investment Proaram
Project Development Assistance             152,000      360$000     512,000
III. Trade Resime
1.  Trade and Related Policies Study        85,000      220,000     305,000
2. Measurement of the Indirect
Tax Content of Exports                     -         30,000      30,000
3.  Strengthening Customs Adminis-          20,000       20,000      40,000
tration
4. Preparation of the Proposed Trade
and Finance, and Industry Develop-
ment and Restructuring Operations         -          20,000      20,000
IV. Petroleum Sector
Review of Legal, Regulatory and
Taxation Framework                          10.000      300.000     310.000
1,005,000    3,100,000   4,105,000
Eqwlouent                                           9S5.000    530.000      625.000
Total Base Costs                                 1,100,000    3,630,000   4,730,000
Unallocated                                        100,000      370,000      470,000
TOMAL PROJECT COSTS                              1,200,000    4,000,000   5,200,000



Schedule A
Pages 2 of 2
RiNDD AID URTOIO
ZONNCA88IStAR PROJECT
Financina Plan
(US8$ Thousands)
Local   Foreign Total
Bank                                                    -      4,000    4,000
Goverament                                            1,200       -     1,200
1,200    4,000    5,200



-7
Schedule B
unD   D AOmAGO
tECUNICAL ASSISLNC_ flOJUC?
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Project Element                     Procurement Method         Total Costs
ICB     LCB    Otheral   NA.A'
1.  Consultant Services       -       -         -       3.10          3.10
2.  Equipment                 -      O.S3I   0.23        -            0.53
3.  Unallocated               -       -         -        -            0 37
TOTAL                                                             4.00
I/ Other methods Include local shopping.
b/ Contracting of consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines.
-/ ICB if estimated contract value exceeds $200,000.
Disbursements
(USS millions)
Category                      Amount          Percentage
1.  Consultant Services       3.10            1OOZ
2.  Equipment                 0.53            100Z
3.  Unallocated               0.37            100z
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ millions equivalent)
Fiscal Years
1990          1991          1992         1993
Annual               1.7           1.5           0.5          0.3
Cumulative           1.7           3.2           3.7          4.0



Schedule C
TRIIDMD AND NOBAGW)
TICMUCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepares                 Twelve months
(b)  Prepared by:                           Government with Bank assistance
(c) First Bank Missions                     November 1988
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departures           May 1989
Ce)  Negotiations:                          October 1989
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:         January 1990
(g)  List of Relevant PCIs and PPARss       Not applicable



-9-
Schedule D
STATS OF BAN  9W  VOPATIONS IN 'TRINIDAD AN  TOBAGO
A. Statent of Bank Lan asof September U, 1089
-USt  Mll l Ion --
Loan     Fiscal                                                                  (Lew Cancellotion)
No.       Year      Borrower             Purgpose                                ank      Undiebirs
13 loans fully disbursed                                                        93.4           _
Of which has ben repid                                      76.0
Total Now Outstnding                                        17.4 s/
Amount Sold                                      22.9
Ot which ha ben  repald                          21.6        1.8
Total now hld by Bank                                       16.1 n/
Tota l Undisbureed                                                         -
B. Statement of IFC Investmente as of Septmber  , i98
Flscal                                                                                    UN million-
Year    Borrower                          Typ of Busines                        Lo n      Equity       Total
978    Canning & Co. Ltd.               Poultry                                 1.2         -           1.2
1979   Caribbean Glass Works, Ltd.      Glas. Container.                        1.2         -           1.2
1987    Trinidad Nitrogen Co. Ltd.      Chemical A Petrohebmical              110.6         -         19.0
1987    Hom  Mortg    Bank              Money and Capital Markes                            0.4         0.4
1989   Trinidad and Tobao
Development Finance Co. Ltd. Capital Markets                                     0.5         6.5
Total Gross ':vmltsmnt                                                192.4         0.9       198.8
Loe  Cancellations, Terminations, Sales and Ropymnt                    166.9        -         160.9
Total Coemitmea  no held by IFC                                        81.5         0.9        32.4
Total Undlhburse                                                        0.0         O.5         0.5
a/ Book v lue.



- 10 -
ANI=X 1
Technical Annex
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Section A. Prolect Descrintion
1.       Background.  The proposed SAL/TAL operations would be the first in
Trinidad and Tobago (T&T) since 19?9. The country was graduated from Bank
lending in February 1984. Since then, the economic situation of T&T has
deteriorated sharply, causing a continuing and sharp decline in the GNP per
capita. As part of the Bank's technical assistance to T&T, Bank staff
produced a comprehensive report which was discussed with the authorities in
March 1988. Following this economic review, which highlighted the severe
structural deficiencies of the economy, the Bank analyzed in detail
alternative projections on GNP per capita. The conclusion was that, during
FY90 T&T would again be eligible to borrow from the Bank.
2.       The major adjustment issues confronting the country arise from the
dominance and decline of its oil sector and from the distortions caused by
past economic policies and inadequate adjustment in the early eighties.
The Government which took office in December 1986 has taken important
policy steps towards structural adjustment including devaluation, tax
reform and expenditure restraint. However, the long recession occurring
since 1982 and inadequate adjustment prior to this date has exacted a high
social price in terms of employment, incomes and standards of living.
3.       The proposed SAL/TAL operations focus on elimination of structural
constraints of economic diversification of exports and sustainable growth.
They are directed towards assisting the Government to reduce the size and
improve the efficiency of the public sector in economic activity; make the
economy more competitive and efficient; and restructure and diversify the
sources of medium and longer-term growth. More specifically, the proposed
operations address the following issues: (i) public sector reform through
mobilization and allocation of public sector resources -- state enterprises
restructuring and divestiture, efficiency improvements, reduction of
dependence on the budget, tariff increases in the public utilities and
strengthening the management of public sector investment; (ii) private
sector development through trade reform, export incentives and investment
incentives; and (iii) strengthening the Government's social sector policies
and programs, including efforts to ameliorate the social impact of
adjustment. The pace of implementation of the whole adjustment and
stabilization program will need to be geared to the maintenance of social
cohesion and sustaining domestic support for it; and social programs to
protect the poor and vulnerable groups and alleviate the social costs of
adjustment should proceed in parallel. Accordingly, the proposed TAL will
help the Government: (i) implement and monitor the adjustment program;
(ii) strengthen social policies and programs, including those aimed at
cushioning the social costs of adjustment; and (iii) prepare future
adjustment and other operations likely to be supported by the Bank and
other donors.



- 11 -
4.       The SAL would be released in two tranches.  The first tranche of
US$20 million equivalent would be released upon loan effectiveness. The
second, also of US$20 million equivalent, will be released following a
satisfactory review of program implementation, several aspects of which
will be supported by TAL assistance. The review would be conducted about
10 months after effectivenese.
5.       Project Components.  Financing would be provided under the Project
for the services of international and national consultants (long and shol
term), staff training, equipment and stucAies. The Ministry of Planning a-Ad
Mobilization through the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) and Social
Sectors Unit (SSU) would be responsible for hiring the consultants financed
under the TAL in consultation with the appropriate line agency, and
arranging for training and purchase of equipment (see para. 23 for detailed
project implementation arrangements). The RSU and SSU will report to the
Minister of Planning and Mobilization through the Permanent Secretary.
They will be headed and staffed by Government officials and supported by
two to three long-term consultants and several short-term consultants in
each unit for about three years. The consultants and Government staff
working within the Units will assist in the coordination and implementation
of the SAL and other aspects of the Government's adjustment program.
including preparatory work for further reforms and possible operations in
the areas of trade, finance and industry, state owned enterprises and the
social sectors. Additional consultants will be hired by the RSU and SSU
and assigned to work with line agency counterparts (see paras. 8 through 22
below), and will provide on-the-job training and transfer of technical
skills to ensure continuity and sustainability. Agreement on all major
TORs was reached during negotiations.
6.       The RSU will have primary responsibility for:
(i)    facilitating implementation of the Government's economic
restructuring program over the next three to five years,
including the activities related to management of the SAL
and TAL as well as such other restructuring programs the
government may entrust to the Unit;
(ii)   liaising closely with the Social Sector Unit (SSU) to
ensure the contemporaneous consideration of social costs
and implication in the design and implementation of
specific measures to be introduced under the economic
reform program;
(iii) ensuring that the recommendations of the consultants and
other professionals, are reviewed by the relevant
government personnel and implemented within the time frame
agreed by Cabinet, especially with a view to securing
release of the second tranche of the Structural Adjustment
Loan;
(iv)   facilitating preparation of possible future projects and
programmes supported by the World Bank; and



- 12 -
(v)    ensuring complementarity between TAL financed activities
and TA financed from other sources.
Prior to loan effectiveness the RSU should be staffed and functioning and
its director appointed and in place. This is also a condition of release of
the second tranche of the SAL, as is satisfactory progress in carrying out
the studies and in the preparation of action programs and proposals for
many of the activities described in paras. 8 through 21.
7.       The SSU will support the Borrower's efforts to strengthen social
policies and programs, including those aimed at mitigating the social costs
of the medium term adjustment. The Unit's specific tasks include:
(i)    liaising with the RSU to ensure the contemporaneous
consideration of social costs and implications in the
design and implementation of the specific measures to be
introduced under the economic reform program. This is to
be achieved by means such as the review of TORs,
participation in the periodic reviews of progress in the
various studies (convened under the auspices of the RSU),
and contributing to the formulation of the proposed policy,
strategy and implementation p:ans;
(ii)   conducting a social sector expenditure review taking into
account other related studies and reviews focusing on the
provision of a desirable minimum level of services,
especially to the poor and vulnerable groups;
(iii)  developing an operation, particularly in the context of
small business development and youth employment insertion
schemes, possibly to be financed by the World Bank, which
will focus mainly on strengthening the employment prospects
of unemployed youth (aged between 15-24) which is the group
most at risk;
(iv)   adapting existing socio-economic survey data to generate
information along the lines of the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) to guide Government interventions
in protecting the poor and vulnerable. This information
will provide the basis for identifying the poor and
vulnerable and how they have been affected by the long
recession and will facilitate a better targeting of
Government interventions;
(v)    developing the framework and overall implementation
strategy, including financing plan, for the further
development of a social security system in the
medium/longer term;
(vi)   assisting in the preparation of action plans taking into
account the results of the above studies, as well as other
social sector exercises that might be undertaken;



- 13 -
(vii)  ensuring that progress is made in developing and
implementing the aforementioned action plans sufficient to
warrant release of the second tranche of the structural
adjustment loan;
(viii) preparing quarterly program and monitoring reports for the
Government's Economic Management Team and the World Bank;
and
(ix)   ensuring that external consultants would work closely with
and transfer any specialized skills to Counterparts and
relevant Ministry Staff with the specific aim of ensuring
continuity and sustainability.
The SSU will also coordinate closely with other donors, especially the IDB
which is heavily involved in investments in the social sectors and expects
to place a social sectors specialist in its Field Office in the near
future. Prior to TAL effectiveness the SSU should be staffed and
functioning and its Director appointed and in place. This is also a
condition of release of the second tranche of the SAL. In addition, prior
to second tranche release there should be satisfactory progress in carrying
out the studies mentioned above and in the development and implementation
of action programs.
8.       Public Enterprises.  The Government has begun the first phase of a
program of restructuring the state enterprise sector based largely on the
recommendations of the Rampersad Committee. The reforms include financial and
managerial restructuring, and cost reduction exercises; as well as liquidation
of inefficient and unviable SOEs, and divestment of some SOEs which is to be
supported by the proposed SAL. Drawing on the expertise and services of the
members of the Rampersad Committee, the Coordinating and Monitoring Group
within the Committee has played the lead role in monitoring and facilitating
the implementation of the Cabinet approved reform measures. The Committee's
mandate, however, will expire in the next few months and there will no longer
exist any mechanism to monitor and support the restructuring/ divestment plans.
It is proposed that the gap be filled by a new unit with similar functions (the
SOE Unit) to be located within the Ministry of Finance, the shareholder of the
SOEs. The Government envisages the Unit having a continuing role in monitoring
the financial and economic performance of the SOE sector. In this context, the
Unit's specific functions would be to: (i) monitor the implementation of the
Cabinet directives based on the recommendations of the Rampersad Committee;
(ii) mobilize and coordinate the necessary expertise and services to facilitate
the implementation measures; (iii) liaise with other relevant agencies,
including MOET, the MOF, the stock exchange, and accounting firms; (iv) ensure
that implementation takes place within certain broadly accepted principles
related to the valuation of assets and transparency.
9.       The TAL would finance the services of technical experts to be deployed
by the SOE Unit. These services would include (i) auditors and financial
analysts to update financial statements, undertake financial/economic
projections of individual firms, and prepare or review offers for sale;
(ii) valuators to inventory and value properties and assets, determine the
extent of liabilities and proposf settlement plans; they may also assist in
disposing of the assets of liquidated firms; (iii) lawyers to advise on legal



- 14 -
issues relating to divestment, including the settlement of legal liabilities,
enabling legislation, etc.; (iv) investment experts to advise on potential
investors and to assist in reviewing bids (for joint ventures, for example) and
negotiating deals; and (v) professional engineers to evaluate equipment and
programming and planning of physical facilities. Prior to release of the
second tranciie of the SAL, liquidations will be completed for selected SOEs,
and at least three additional enterprises will be prepared for divestment,
wholly or partially, and brought to the market.
10.      While the SAL focuses on the first phase reform measures to improve
the efficiency of the public enterprise sector and the overall allocation of
public resources, subsequent phases of the reform program for the public
enterprise sector (including public utilities) will also need to be addressed.
In this respect, the TAL will support studies in the following areas:
establishment of a sound and updated public enterprise data base and review of
the legal and institutional framework for the sector as a whole. Areas
identified which could be the subject of further study and recommendation under
the legal and institutional framework review include: (i) the process by which
SOEs determine their budgets, investment programs, pricing and tariff policies
and other operational decisions; (ii) the system for monitoring economic,
financial and technical performance of public enterprises; (iii) the role of
the PUC; (iv) the clarity of the respective oversight responsibilities of the
PUC and Ministry of Settlements and Public Utilities; (v) ways to improve
coordination on financial and accounting matters between the Ministry of
Finance, the PUC and the individual utilities; (vi) the need for performance
targets for the regulated utilities in order to increase efficiency of
operations within the context of tariff approvals; (vii) an assessment of the
appropriateness of the existing rate structure and other mechanisms in
addressing the needs of the poor and vulnerable groups; and (viii) the
appropriateness of the present legislation regarding public utilities in light
of changes in the economic and social environment. In addition, the RSU will
carry out an analysis of the wage and employment policies in the public
enterprise sector (including public utilities), in order to determine their
competitiveness with the private sector.
11.      Public Utilities.  The power company (T&TEC) and the water and
sewerage authority (WASA) exhibit major shortcomings. In the case of
T&TEC, the TAL will finance a comprehensive management and operational
audit including an action plan. The audit would focus, inter alia, on:
(i) improving system expansion planning. The organization, staffing level
and qualifications of the existing personnel of the System Operations and
Planning Department will be evaluated with a view to improving
methodologies, criteria, hardware and software presently used for system
expansion planning and to make the planning process more efficient. This
in turn will help optimize existing investments and help reduce the need
for new investments in the short and medium term and the rate increases to
finance them; (ii) recommending ways to improve T&TEC's rate making
capacity by abandoning the supply side approach of promoting consumption
and adopting economic costing policies, including the possible introduction
of marginal costing, consistent with the recovery of actual (i.e.,
replacement) costs, rather than costs of the original investment; and (iii)
assessing operational and maintenance practices in order to improve the
efficiency of the existing plant. The consultants may also propose
training and observation visits abroad and an amendment of current



- 15 -
legislation to provide for revaluation of assets. The consultants would
focus on improving efficiency in the allocation of resources for
investments (complementing the proposed PSIP assistance); improving equity
in the allocation of costs among consumers since the present rate structure
is distorted in favor of heavy userst considering measures to protect the
poor; promoting waste reduction by users to help delay the need for new
investmer.ts; and providing relative price stability thus reducing the need
for substantial annual rate hikes, with the corresponding negative social
impact.
12.      Prior to release of the second tranrhe of the SALt Mi) the
management and operational audit of T&TEC will have been carried out and an
action plan mutually agreed; (ii) measures will have been adopted,
including best efforts to obtain a tariff adjustment in order to achieve a
break even position in 1990; (iii) an investment plan will have been
adopted in line with the action plan; and (iv) a customertemployee ratio of
not less than 99 (from the current 97) will have been achieved.
13.      There is also ana urgent need to improve the management
capabilities and operational performance of WASA and set the stage to make
WASA more financially self-sufficient. Revenue derived from operations
accounts for only about 70X of operating costs. Health statistics show
high morbidity from gastro-enteritis diseases, which is indicative of low
water and sanitation service levels and of intermittent water supplies.
These problems are compounded by an urgent need to encourage water
conservation and improve the reliability of service. WASA will need
assistance from experienced consultants to develop an emergency plan to
address the aforementioned problems and to design and implement most of its
actions. This assistance will be provided through an IDB loanigrant.
14.      Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP).  The process for
formulation, implementation and monitoring of the PSIP needs to be
strengthened. The composition of the PSIP largely reflects a stocktake of
current projects, some of which would probably not be initiated, if
proposed now. It also includes expenditure items which should be
classified as recurrent costs. The absence of a well-developed pipeline of
technically sound and economically viable projects means there is a
tendency for the PSIP to include projects which are at the most advanced
stage of preparation rather than necessarily those of the highest priority.
Finally, the PSIP fails to include all of the investments of the State
owned Enterprises, although the amounts omitted are unlikely to be very
substantial.
15.      Prior to second tranche release, agreement would be reached:
(i) on the size, composition and sectoral balance and financing plan of a
rolled over PSIP covering the period 1990-92, with the core program for
1990; (ii)that coverage of the PSIP include the investments of Central
Government, public utilities and all SOEs where the Government is the
majority shareholder or is funding specific investment projects; (iii) that
current expenditures be excluded from the PSIP; (iv) project preparation
guidelines including environmental impact assessments, analysis of
recurrent cost implications of investment projects, selection criteria and
project approval procedures (including decision making powers) to ensure



- 16 -
that all projects above a financial threshold of US$1.0 million are subject
to full technical, economic and financial analysis before they are included
in the PSIP.
16.      There is one related area where the Government has sought
assistance under the TAL. This is to develop a set of projects from the
initial concept through the preparation of *bankable* proposals. At
present, the PSIP pipeline is thin; and there is only limited capacity to
prepare projects properly. The TAL would support the Government's project
preparation capability, institutionally located in MOPAM; and assist in
producing a pipeline of projects well linked to sector strategies
preparatory to their inclusion in the PSIP. The TAL would supplement (but
not duplicate) the technical assistance provided by the IDB's pre-
investment loan and PSIP grant.
17.      Central Government Reform.  As part of the adjustment program and
corresponding attempt to reduce Government expenditures, a Voluntary
Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP) has been instituted for civil
servants. About 10,000 of a total of about 80,000 permanent and 'daily
paid' civil servants (including teachers) could opt for VTEP. One of the
negative consequences of the program is the expected departure of
experienced employees. There are already signs of deterioration in basic
personnel management and accounting. The TAL through the RSU would finance
the services of several short term local consultants to assist the Central
Training Unit of the Personnel Department design curricula for a program of
intensive training for selected remaining and identified replacement staff
in personnel and financial management/procedures to avoid further
deterioration in these systems. The training would be practical and
operationally oriented, and be aimed at avoiding a collapse in basic
management systems.
18.      Trade Regime.  It is the Government's objective to stimulate the
economy by improving the conditions for growth in private investment and
exports. This requires inter alia reforms in the trade regime. The
central objective of the recommended trade reforms is to modify the
structure of incentives in favor of production for export by creating an
incentive environment that gradually approaches free trade. The first
stage of the trade reform will address the rationalization of the system of
import protection, replacing administrative barriers to imports (largely
quantitative restrictions) with tariffs. It would include gradual
elimination of the negative list of imports based on an agreed time phased
plan. It would also provide exporters with unrestricted access to imported
inputs at international prices and abandon export licensing for the most
part. The second stage of the trade reform will address tariff reform over
the medium term, inter alia through annual adjustments in protection rates
over three to five years, ending in 1994.
19.      The TAL will finance a study of trade and associated nolicies
which will include inter alia: (a) an assessment of the protective regime
affecting the agricultural sector and the state trading company which would
determine the time frame for phasing out agricultural items on the negative
list; (b) quantitative estimates of effective protection (to help define
the medium term tariff reform program more precisely); (c) recommendations



- 17 -
for phasing the change at the industry level from quantitative restrictions
to tariff based protection; (d) a study of the impact on domestic
industries of removing licensing requirements for imports; and (e) a study
of the practical significance of existing exemptions from import charges
on T&T's competitiveness in regional markets in light of corresponding
regimes operating within CARICOM. In addition, the TAL will finances
(i) assistance to strengthen tariff administration and anti-dumping
arrangements; (ii) computer hardware and software required in connection
with the establishment of the Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA)
as part of the Government's trade facilitation program; and (iii) a study
measuring the direct and indirect content of indirect taxes in exports and
introduction of a rebate system, if warranted, with a view to providing a
free trade status to exporters to enhance TMT's international
competitiveness in exports.
20.      Conditions for release of the second tranche of the SAL include
inter alia: (i) that the Government has completed a study on trade and
associated policies, including an assessment of protective trade regime
affecting agriculture and the state trading company, quantitative estimates
of effective protection, and the other areas mentioned in para. 19 (i). On
the basis of the study the Government would reach agreement with the Bank
on the medium-term tariff reform program for the manufacturing sector
(possibly to be supported by a Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment
Operation); (ii) that the number of items in the manufacturing sector for
which import licenses are required is reduced by 40Z of the productive
coverage involved and agreement is reached on a time-phased action program
to eliminate the rest by 1991 (the TAL provides related assistance to
strengthen customs procedures and introduce anti-dumping arrangements);
(iii) that the Government will have made progress satisfactory to the Bank
in simplifying its import and export procedures including introduction of
the ASYCUDA system; and (iv) that the Government will have selected and
established a scheme for providing free trade status to manufacturers
predominantly engaged in export activities and has provided to the Bank a
timetable to provide a similar facility to cover the exports of other
manufacturers.
21.      The TAL will also finance studies to help prepare:  (i) a proposed
Trade and Finance sector operation which would deepen the trade reforms
begun under the SAL; and (ii) a proposed Industry Restructuring and
Development Project which would address the needs for the financial,
management and operations restructuring of industrial enterprises in
adjusting to the new pattern of incentives.
22.      Petroleum Sector Review.  The petroleum sector continues to be the
main earner of foreign exchange, and steps are being taken to strengthen
its performance. The objective of this review is to determine the relative
competitiveness of the existing regime in attracting further private sector
involvement in the petroleum industry and, where appropriate, make
recommendations for improvement. This review would cover all existing
pertinent legislation, including applicable regulations, affecting
(i) concession licensing; (ii) petroleum contracts; (iii) royalty payments;
and (iv) petroleum taxation systems. Satisfactory progress in conducting



- 18 -
these reviews will be a condition of release of the second tranche of the
SAL.
Section B. Prolect Administration and ImDle_ ntation
23.      Proiect Oraanization and Administration.  The TAL will be managed
and administered by two units: the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) and
the Social Sectors Unit (SS'J) both located in the Ministry of Planning and
Mobilization (MOPAM). The Minister of Planning and Mobilization is
responsible for coordinating the Government's overall economic adjustment
program and the heads of the RSU and SSU will report to the Minister
through his Permanent Secretary. An international management consulting
organization, possibly in joint venture with a local firm, will be hired by
MOPAM/RSU to help identify and obtain the services of TAL financed
consultants and support the Government's management of the SALITAL. This
should alleviate the burden of administering a large number of contracts
with firms and individuals. The Units will be responsible for approving
consultants to be hired by the international firm, in coordination with
line agencies, administering their contracts, purchasing equipment and
arranging for training. The required secretarial, accounting, and
bookkeeping support will also be hired by the Units. The Units would have
relative managerial and administrative autonomy, under the general guidance
of the MOPAM, to expedite contracting. Man/month estimates and approximate
consultant and equipment costs are contained in Schedule 1. An average
cost of US$10,000 per man/month has been used for most activities. Actual
costs will vary.
24.      Proiect Coordination and Renortina.  The Units will be staffed
with senior level public servants closely integrated into the Government
decision making process. These staff will serve as counterparts to a core
of TAL financed long and short term consultants. Together they will be
responsible for coordinating SALITAL activities. The consultants will work
closely with designated counterparts in those agencies and the SSU and RSU
will ensure that consideration is given at an appropriate level to the
recommendations emerging from the TAL financed studies and those of other
donors, especially the IDB, UNDP and EC. The Units will prepare quarterly
reports on progress of project implementation, and progress in overall
reforms instituted under the adjustment program. In addition, they will
prepare an annual report sumxarizing progress in all key areas of the
reform and at completion of the project, they will collaborate in the
preparation of a project completion report. They will play a key role in
ensuring that measures are taken sufficient to warrant release of the
second tranche of the SAL.
25.      Procurement.  The goods and services to be financed under the
project would be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank as summarized in Schedule B of the Memorandum to the President on
the project. Training and consultant services would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Purchases of equipment, supplies
and maintenance items to cost the equivalent of between US$20,000 and
US$200,000 will be made through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures.
However, purchases for such items to cost more than US$200,000 will be
procured through ICB. The Bank will review the first two contracts under



- 19 -
LCB and all contracts over $100,000. Computer equipment will be suitably
packaged to allow its procurement through LCB or TCB. Equipment, supplies
and maintenance items to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent (up to an
aggregate of $100,000) will be procured by obtaining price quotations from
at least two eligible suppliers.
26.      Disbursements and Retroactive Financing.  In order to facilitate
payments under the loan, a special account will be established in the
Central Bank in the amount of $400,000. Expenditures for supplies and
maintenance items of less than US$20,000 equivalent will be disbursed
against statements of expenditures (SOEs), for which detailed documentation
evidencing expenditures would be retained by the Units and made available
for the required audit and also for supervision by the Bank. The minimum
value of each SOE submitted would be US$5,000 equivalent. The loan
provides retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 for expenditures made
after November 1, 1989.
27.      Accounts and Audits.  Separate accounts would be kept for all
expenditures made under the project. The RSU and SSU would maintain
records and accounts for all project activities. The accounts and
statements of expenditures would be audited each year by auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines,
and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of the financial year.



P0v,o  1- IOt 
ANDi  M   TO3A   - TEiNNieL An1ZIMML                                                             Pame I of 10
patI  Areal                           Ltiol Take"  Pre r       ,           Action to be Taken Prior                 A-mitnce  to be Ficed                           t A
Sdgfi nMlBM1 _                          to 9srd Presentatio                   To Secod Trch Roles"                         Under th   I                       Chie Couror
1. PMiW&e   _ nSMAPoet"ooatPoatMngmetPoot"ommbPoie   WSoe
strengthenig Governmaent's           A  br. Ctru ;rig SUPPort Uit (Et)     Satlfateory propre  in studie          The RSe J snd the SSU *1i1 he headed    S   ad SI: Ministry of Piol_i
intrltaatio     capecti' tot Cl)   and a Srcia Sectors Wit (MSO  n           4 pepraPstion/adoption of action      en  staffed by  Osvarnrmt               sod  hbiblastion (EVMPS).
Ieplment the adl t_ant             the tinditry of PI,nino and             progrm _Od  preposla.                   officials and supported by two
prasi ad (ii) *_el;jost            NnlIbbtion established and the                                                   lante  comeuttnts and several
the s aocl rut, of adjustment.    Direto  nam_d. The RW will                                                       short tare conIsu  tt in each unit
form Go Implementing rform                                                    f*or two to ttihre  yer.
nltiated undr the SAL (ZI-tX                                                   Con1ltants will *esi1t In the
below). The SSI w1l l focus on                                                  coordination VW lmpletation of
aitigting the  acial crsto of                                                     s SAL aNd the aowern.st'e
adj _tmt (X below),                                                            overall edjuetmnt prorm
including preratory work for
The silts eshod be statffd                                                      further reform  in the *re of
functioning  nd Directore appointed                                            trade Nd   indetry. state owne
en  in place s,e condition of TAL                                              enterprim  and tbh osoca  eactoro.
*ffecti Vomee.                                                                 Estimated cot of the SS TAM.
support tNOO.CO,t0 million                                                      N
including lSS00.0O for ep"mmt;                                                  o
eationted ceat of the 1SU TM.
pport SO,OOO Includng 
WSSCOO.000 for eqipment.
IL Public Sector  eformr S_tt owned antearis                                   State owned enteraria                   Stat owned etererits                     Sta  owned entiori
Stataowed t atarnrises             Ties-phased action plos  prepard        Complet  liquidation  for 10m, SiC      (i) Conmutt service, to support         Ninie;try of Firnac/Stat. Cowed
improveet of reource               to divest partiatly or fully an         end NW.                                 actions required  for second            Enterprise Wit/1S.
mobilization  ed efficieny of      agred l lot of enterprises (TCL.                                                trandie release. These *ill
resre  af location.               7&W, Cron Reef,  TP) ad to              Prepare for divetmnt Cincladin          ;Rncw)d si;ce an restructuerng.
retructure Solid  aesta.               by liquidation joint venture end        sodo of divestment end vaiuation of
tong "tre leas) and briftn to the      easets. Approslmta cost
Unit established in the minietry of     "erhet at least thre  *nterprmes.      tW20,W000 fwr 20 t/t ad tVSW O.000
Finence, to be eupportd with                                                   for qipment.
technical assistance under the TAL,
to faci itate implemntation of                                                 (ii) Assistance In tho prparation       Stats sined gnterori m
agreed action ptwn  end related                                                of * pomleii bCt  pported public         OF/SSOEU/PS
mothers.                                                                       enterprise  dj t/privat
ecthor d"vlopmnt Operation.
Approrimete cost USSIGO.000 for
1i N"N.



4dul* I
h.U =I& J
TRID   AM    Y     - linTEaeL            '                                                             Page 2 of 10
Om SAL PiKC    5          wi A        t  II   Ut Mm AT
Piol;. Aru                             Actirn Talkrn Prior                   Action to be Taken Prior                 Asistance to be Financed                  C ot
Rofor_ LdeoSL                             to eoaed Pr.  tat.lon                To Second Trench  Net..l                       MWUn  Vt                            Chief Cggtgo*
Pubtic UtiliIt;uu                       Pbic Utlie                              Public MtIMtI -^                             I   t Ibl1  | tit "                 Water Athoritit
leroueeat of officieny It                (a) bte Authrity                        (a)      er Auttoritv                    (a) Water AtLoritY                      Of TAL  a       ;tec  fo e
resource mobilization and               Agreemat with the Covarnent and          Consultant report prepared              OperationaI. financial  ad
efficiency in reeoc,e  *llocation,      the Water Authority oan the             icaluding: (i) plea for                  aengman%t conwiJtan   to the water
objectivea on action plan to be         rehebilitation of cercial                Authority to be finanged by 198
prpepred and carried out by the         sytem; (e.g.. billing ad lwaeddan
Covernant end VASA. Thea                collection. cone". of a   water end
objectivee include: (i) financial       eewrape connections eNd plea for
self-sufficiency (including pheaed      wteorin  large coneumere. Including
reduction of trnfora f reu Central   hievy industrial consu_ro); (ii)
Governaent)  nd over Il sound           propoeaie for tariff level-, Nd
financial aenagement as aeaeured by     atructure In llan  With areed
target. intcluine working ratio and     objectiv"; (IIi) plane for
retcivables. (ii) adeainitretive        achivingt the followIan  torate by
efficiacy Including appropriate         end 1991 - workIno ratio lo_e than
acconting, billing and collection       1.056  receivablee 6 eanthe or tle;
ya-t_; (iOi) operatioanl                and *ployeee/1000 water
efficiency. ao goeaured by targete      connctitns reduced from 31 to tlee
for number of cuetoamr per              than 21 and by 1998 working ratio,
* ployc; dw   d of ealaries in          Iete than 0.95  ad receivableo 4
operating eapenditures: number of       mont6., or tese. Action plea
_etered connection.; maintenanc         adopted and implementation in
level.,                                 accordnce with plan.
Government agremwant that               Arrears of Covernent mnd itt
coneultante wuld be in place by         aencios IiquiJated and  cecout
February 1990.                          balaces ade current.
Oovrna_nt co_mit_t to hasp its
ccount balances, nd thoe of ito
agenies currant. an  arraneanto
ade to liquidat Arrears.



Noebr  13. 19w89
1           Ame Toy= - T,"A      At  SSTAPI  LOW                                                     Pag" 3 of 10
Rl .M.     MDa AM Arins TO II  TlM             t inMet
Pblicy Areal                           Actione Tkn PEtior                   Actlon to be Takln Prior                 ssi stae to he Financed
Rford m Une.  S                          to Sesrd Preentation                 To Second Tranchl Release                    Unft Jbe,b                         Chhif C04ntrgart
tb) Paper Cot n                         (b) P*owr CL "                                                                 (b)  Pe      m
Aereeet with the Overnaant and          (1) nosg nt Vnd opertional             tb) Pri Co"n                            T&T
the powr coopany on tho cJrect,ves      audit carried out. sad action plan     ttn_gemnt end operational uidit of    Canre*  bnge-.
of on action plan to be prepared        reflect"g objectivwas forulated         the Power Comapny (ThTs) and
and carried out by the Cowernoent       and eatuelly agreed; (action plen      dewelopasot of an action plan
and the power company (baed an the      to Include taret. tieuing. and          (about 44 a/s. uS44O,0o0  ad
an_agewnt and operationsl audit to    saso of echievwin targets):              USUO,OOO for related equipmant).
be finarced uwder the TAL).  Tkeh       (t;) eosaree -4ted, including
objectivee include: (i) fintacial       best efforts to  btain tariff
self-sufficiency asd overal l ond       edjueteant in order to achieve
finafnelal  np_agasnt as m"eured by     break-even position in 190:;
targto including rate of return,        (ii) in-etmeent proerse adopted in
net internal cash geeration.            l;i  with action plan.
debt-equity ratio, debt  srv ice        (iv) c _taar/ eaployse ratio of
covorege. receivables;                  not l1e  than     (fro  current 97)
(Ci) administrative efficiency         achieved.
including appropratet  cecounting,
bilIing and coll-ction eysteme.
(Oil) operptionml  fficiency, as
asau"rd by target. for number of                                                                                                                                s
custoers per eaployas; share of
las;ri  in operating eapenditurre;
techncal Io ; _sintenanca
Ie-els; (iv) *ound Investment
programming based on the principles
of lea-mcost expansion and
financial feasibility.
Sound balance betn
goerstion/tronosiesitn  nd
distribution.
Covernent ogrue_nt that
consultants would be in place by
February 1990



ftogr1, 18
anm  m  Iow    - 1WJoItmA  &SXNM~ LOW                                                              Polls 4 of 10
tm St PKUCf mS AN  AtrM    TO  tiE TAWe vi  m O
PoIIl Ak                               Actions Taken Prior                   Action to be Taken Prior                 Assistance to be Financed               t           ADWK {
Reform hda,r                              to Dogrd Prentetico                  To Second Trancho Relgie .r IF                                                    Chief Countiiroor
Covernment comai_tot to  op its         tlon-govrnnent account bolance.
account bat nceo snd thos  of its        reduced to 60 days;  rrioarn  of
aesocire cuorrnt; sod arraneoto        Government snd Its agenc;ie
mad, to liquidate streer.                I Ilqu;dst.d snd account balsocee
ad. currsnt.
Cowvrnont comi tent to convert          Lost  snd  dvancee converted Into
its outstad;ig loans  nd Ad'nces        equity.
into equIty.
(e) Publie Sector Investmnt             (c) Public Sector Invo t_nt              (e) Publ;i Sector Inv oe                (c) t'ubltc Sector Investment            (C) Public Sector Invoete"t
Propro (PSIP                            ProDrse  PSIP)                           ereaa  tlSIP}                           Probenn *PSIP                            PrrW  MPSI
Developsst of a capecity to             Agreement Ci) an tho soime               Agreemnt en, (i) the si",                I. grant to finencn PSIP                ";n.;sry of Plannoingod
formulate, isplest snd oni top          composition snd sectoral balance        tcomoition snd aectorst belane           mesistsnc* orignteilly envisaged for    lV4niieation/PS throuh the
the PSIP,                               and financial plan of * core PSIP        snd financing plan of a rolled over    TALM financing. TAL asistnoe  will        Director Project Planning  nd
for O9N9; (Ui) on coverag  of the       PSIP coveting tte  etiod 1l041992.    therefore nos be directed to               Reconstruction.
PSIP to Include tho inveetes to of      with the core progree for i990           swpportina the doelopent of a
Central Covernent, public               cleerly ident;fied (Project              pip)oins of projecte for eateosion
utilities end all S#Es whore the        developen"t mll be assisted             In the PSIP, co"lesatary to the
Covernent is th- majority                through tho TAL); (ii) project          Id assistance. Approximteo ost                                                W
shareholder or is funding specific      preparation guidelines (including       t1O,o.000 for 36 mA end 1SZ40.000
Investent projects;  (;;I) that         rnviro_entel impact eesesents).         for equipment.
current supsnditures to be *eutuded     selection criteria and  Pproval
from the PSIP;  (iv) to develop         proedure. and the Institutional
project preparation guidelineo          role. sod responsibilities of the
(including environmental Impact         variueo  *e oie. Involved is the
saaesseento). Including anolyeis of     PSIP proceo; appropriate
current coot implicttions of            coordination _echani;eo ; * foeol
inveetmsnt projcts, project             project pre-eelection proceme;
selection criterit  end project          (iii) estisfactory progre  in
approval procedures (including          strengthening the PSIP smoitoring
decision asking powers) to uenure       ordts.
that *Il projects above a finsncial
threshold of tSJ.0  sillion *ar
subject to full technielt, economic
*nd financ;al analysoi before they
art included In the PSIP; (v) to
design a sy-tem to monitor th- PSIP
(both physical and financial
progenss) in order to faci;itate
the review of ipIlementation
parformance on a quarterly basis,



iii         1~    i.   1.13          Z...
it      I      1.'i.         .1''l'
.4. 
m                  A



-~~~~~~~~~ 25X
|0~~1                                                  S !;
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-   i    , ' , i,,        2,' g1, 



Scloodule I
Tmm      mm 'ti    - ,ineiTE1     _ ESv    LOAN                                                       Ps   7 of t0
U *M  ~I~V   ASMB  TAIUS IS       hIIR W  wn
tlEaI" iml                            Actimos Trak   Prior                 Action to b. Talon Prior                 Aesi tanc  to be Flouncd                 9vrment Lo
Reform  Umr SAL                          to bard Prasatation                 To Second Tranche Release                      "*r heh                            Cbie fo a itraart
(b) Initiate elimination of iwmort     (b) Agreement to rf rin from                                                     (b) No separate TAL as;.toacs
duty * emptio".                        grating duty e_eeptiona for new                                                 foregee  (Oc. C below).
industrels.
Revie initiated of *setine duty         (b) Tis-phawed action pla
eaemptions With a view to apae"ing     forlated and mutuatly Iareed.
their practical oeisnficance for        IsplemotAtito  in aceordance with
TAT's competitiveness In CARICON        action plan.
aerketo and forralating action plan
for their phaeed reemva  over thre
to five yeare.
(c) JnttiatIon of medum-term           (c) Aeromet on the tollowing            (c) Study condcted of trd  and          (c) (i) A Study of Trea   nd           c() Ninietry of Plnning and
tarlff reform to reduce level and      principles of the mdim-term             aessciated policet to bo financed       Relted Policii" (about S2200.00         $lb ligtion/RWtt Drector.
dispersion of affctive protection,     tariff rform: () the objective is    undr the TAL, wed  ttreeant on the         and about USh100COD. for equipeent)
to achieve a maxim  rate of Import      6iua-tere, tariff refor progrm          and a Study to "amoure the lndirect
chage" 1e qIvalent to the              for the (non-oil) moanfacturing         Tax Content of Exporte and Rebate
CARtICUI CET currently 4SI for met      ector.                                  Systems Reform (3COO); ad
Item  (or othr lo_er rate that my                                              (ii) preliminary *ork for the                                                    0
be ward within CARCIit) end a                                                   proposed Trod* and Finane Loon
min"im rate of import charge on                                                will be upported by consltat
parts and rmw mterlo of the CET                                                 service. Estimatd Coat U2D,OOO
rate (or other higher rate that my                                             for 2 lJ.
be aoreed wthin CtUCN);
(ii) the tariff reform to be
accomplished through annual
djuetamnte In protection rates
over three to five yar" ending In
194: (<ii) reduction In diaperion
of effctive protection rates
(iv) reduction of the number ot
tariff bonds; ad (v) *x_ptiees
from import duties to be kept to a
minia.
tjrined to include  toriffe. etap
duties, ad other te#e  and charges
that d;icrWiinate againet iemorte.



b S-L PSI I a t OW                                                                                      P" d 1a9ofme 
al " Areal                             Actions Taken Prior                   Action to be Taken Prior                 Aso stacE to be Financed                tS rn_nt tfMll
#Worm Under SAL                           to Se0rd PretantStion                To Second Trncee n tc.    s,                   Und e tb TAL                        Chief Colesrt
(d) Elilmnation of *Emprt               (d) Exwort Iiening reqi remte                                                     (d) No TAL aei tence foreween.
licensing.                              eli-mnated with limited asceptione
ms needed because of international
agremente. notional aecurity  nd
government subsid;ie for protetion
of ntional heritage  nd public
bhalth.
(C) Simplification ;mport and          e() Agreement to accelerate               (e) Set;adeetory proeree  in             (e) Strnetheni no of Cutos               C)  nietry of Pleannin  and
eaport procedure..                       implntotion of INCTAD           -       ieplemettng the reforms and the          Ad;mn;,tration. including proviOion     l4obiitation; Director.
recomendetione roerding trade           ASYCDA oetes.                            of equipment in connection with         Rentructurn;ag Suort Ibit.
facilitation reforme. including                                                 i;ntallation of the ASYCLOA sycte
introduction of its ASYOA system                                                 (about 2 t/H and about $100,000 for
with financing under the TAL.                                                   oequipent).
VI. ExIwt  Iscent;v                     export Inc<tnt;t"                        Eort Incetnt;^se-                        E">ort Z lne   i                        Eamort Incent;iv
Obj ctive - improve ;ncentive
for *eaporting by creating
ai;.lated free trade  tetat   for
woports.
Agrent to examine in
collaboration with the private          Selected  _chem  e*teblioehed and        Conoultant *eoictance in the            lqlniatry of Plening  nd
eector. mlterative system  in           functioning for manufeturers            mameuremnt of direct and indirect         ob; Ii ation/PS through th  lS
pilae in other countrih. for           primarily  ngaged  in eaport;ng;         content of Indirect toome on            Director.
prov;ding fro. trade statue to          timetable for prowiding similar          eaporta and to dmiogn the rbate
etportar  C (... t temporary            fci it;y for othwr  uportere.            scheme. if warranted. EAti eted
adwnioon on reim, in-bond                                                        cost USSSO.000 for 3 1/14.
amnfacturing. rebate ey-tem for
ay indirect tame.) with a view to
identifying a ach_er eultable for
adoption in Trinidad and Tobag.



_S1 ~ ~        ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          Eh
iam~~~ tee va~~~ - tmcsa   mrw  ,.~~~~~                                        page 9 Of 10
mmZ SM. PmiUC   m m. sFrims yr tF             . at   mi e_
bll cy Arnl                             Actions Takcn Prior                    Action to be Token Prior                 Aselatance to be Financed                auinrL*tms
Reor  nder                                to Board Peaentation                   To Second Tranchx Release                      Wd    the                            C f         r
VIZ. Invetent Incentitv
Objective - necreeing
Incentives for investment.
pert.cul.nly foreign Investment
Nd mdify the structur. of
incentives In faver of
produetion for expwrt.
Streamlining procedures for          A *one atop snhoP for new investors      Satitfactory  peqrtion of rmw             No TA. axsi-tnco for _en.
inwat_nt application rotev.          creted.  Invest_nt app ication            aysat  and documentatIon.
doc_mtation &iwplified end
shortened.
Adapting maura for prowtIng                                                   Setiafactory legislation or               No TM.  aistonc* toresen.
and facilitating foreign                                                       quivelent reglations adopted for
inveatrt nt   .                                                               faeIlitating foreigan Investeent,
VIII. Tourism lecentives                 Towrism T"eonti"V                         Tourism Incentim                         Tourism Incentives
Objective - incrmeing tourism        Si lateral negotiations initiated                                                  No TAL *csaat-t foresen.
arrivals.  Ltberelze airline         for direct scheduled flights to
amrvic .                            Tobago by international airline.
IX. Patrolsu  Sector Incentives          Petroleum Sector Incentive               Petroleu  Sctor Incentivc                 Patrols   Sector Incntlv -inistry of Energy/lS
Stilplation of Incresed              Agreemnt to review. *tth the             Consultants engage  under agred           eonul_ta   services to revisw
Private investment it the            assistance through the TAL. the          TR; stisfactory progress in               esettng legislatien  nd pr e
petroleum ector.                     petrolsu  tavation region end th         conducting revises.                       necessary chatge.  ApproWit.t
general regulatory frmeworkw to                                                   cost 1800,000 for 12 Him.
Improvement of regulatory and        asses Trinidad end Tobago's
incentive frameork.                 competitiveneas for encouragine
Iacresed investment by oe l end
foreign Investors in the petroloe
end related ectors.



moe1                     _       _ m m1Oe mm    r   n.in. ewe
~~LLuAcmL          Actim Tab.. Prior                    Act~~~~~in  s be at.L PsriorA  Lowi.tPON ttoe of.n.
3gfgoJ_ t- ~ SL                              So erdl Pr..e.*tin                to Second Trent R .r "a TAL                                                       Chtej  c
X. Social sector Ref oe                  Sociel S&ctor Rd.fr.                     Soiel Sector  eform.                        at. sect  Reform.                   Social Scto R o
ObJ,ective - strensthning of
VeW  overammt's celedty to
estioet. the social est, of
adjuea*mt.
(a) A Social Sector UtI (MI  for        (a) Wb;t sffed and functlning:          (a) Consultant            to carry       WP5.
tudtie in 1M   Is est-bli.dj/    e*tiefectory proore  on steudies                Mt studios r quired for rols., of
Agreement on TOPu for studies to be     and In Prpatlon/adeption of              th, second treencd  sea re_snultng
carried out by t-o Unit ad              action proo   anW prcpoemls per          action promra   sd prear *
finenced under te TAL  Including        Tl.R                                     pocsibl- soci*l meeter oporation.
stdwie stued at Improving the                                                     Utieted cost gS0>OO f*er a WY
proviionr of escial esvices aN                                                   and U56  I .   illIon for moipTmt.
faciliteting the implmeetetion of
the edjuetmnt. studies an Path.
espendituree In thn social mctor..
living  tendrd  meamsurement;
further development of the gocil
meurity eystom and preparation of
a Social Secto  pfoject Jew  iL
to strengthen m  plom ent proepec 
olf unepwlowar  south. 
xi. ImIlocated                                      --                                              -                         U W6
NOvethor 18, 1969"we nMn* Us"o    ILI
A  The Wit ehould be staffed and functioning mnd Its Director  ppoined md ln pluce  o a com dition of effectivenesao  the TAt.



Schedul- 2
ovembr 7. 1989
TRIIDAD AND TOMOO - TECHNICAL ASSISTAMCE LOW
ASSISTANtE MATRIX
BSAM SAL OLICY AREAS AM ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY GEY1R1ilNT
Governent Oblectivee                  Component Activities                   Tentative Scehdule  /Exected Reult
1. Strength. thJ Governm_t's          Assistance to the Restructuring        Commence December 19M.                  Inernsd copecity et Oover m_t to
Institutlonal capacity to         Support Unit (RSU).                                                           overoe  * program of econmic
implem_t theb adjutment                                                  Interim report on measures taken for  restructuring and retor.
pfgr"&W                                                                  SAL Second Tranche Release,
September 1990.
Completion November 1M.
2. Contribute to the formulation      Assistance to the Social Sectors        Commence December 1969.               Devolopmnt of a capacity to design
of the G4overnmnts social         Unit (SSU).                                                                   and implement cost effectiv6
policies and strategies                                                  Interim report on measure token        ptogram  in th   ocl   etors to
including ameliorating the                                               for SAL second tranche relese          protCet *Ini-um levels of  ervice to
social  osta of adJustent.                                               September 1990.                        por nd verrble group
including further development of a
Completion November 1992.              soil seurity syste
Preperation of a possiblo social
sectors oeration. 
S. Improve resource mobilization      Assistance to the State Owned          Commence February 1990. Report on    (t)  Oevelopmnt of a pnrmannt
ad efficiency of resource         Enterprise Unit.                       measures required for second trane   tnstitutionl capaeity in Government
allocation by addressing                                                  release July 1990.                    to overes  the effective6 performnce
probles of weak management,                                                                                     of the SE sector.
over-employment and Iack of                                              Completion January 19.
acountability which has led to                                                                                  (ii)  Timely implem_ntat  - ensured
poor financale  performance by                                                                                  of Governmnt decisions .
many SOEs.                                                                                                       liquidatlon, privatization and
efficioncy improvement  in SOe.
!/ AJMums Board approval in
Doember 1989 and SAL Second
Trenche Releaso in October 1990.



November 7, 1989
TRDNIDAD AND TOBAGO - TEOCNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
ASSISTANCE MATRIX
OAM SAL POLICY AREAS AND ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY  OnMinT
Government ObJectIves                 Component Activities                Tentative Schedule */                   Expected Results
4.  (Sam as above).                   State-owned Enterprise Studies.      Com_ence June 1990                    Studi p   osil tod lyino  tpr  b  I
Completion December 1990.
S. Develop capacity to formulte,   Assistance in strengthening the         Coemenc February 1990.                A viable three yer rolling program
Implement and monitor the PSIP.  project pipeline,                                                           of priority projecte prepered to
Complotion Februsry 1991.             bankable standards.
S. Improve reource mobilization       Management and operational audit of  Coemene January 1990.                  Long term rehebilitation  ;3n and
ond efficiency of reource        the Trinidad and Tobago Electric                                            perforane  targets to acnieve SAL
allocation, including by         Coemission (TTEC).                    Report for second tranche release     second tranche conditionality
reducing  high operating costs                                         Septer 1990.                          torgeta, Including action plan on
uneconomic pricing and poor                                                                                  tariff levels and investmets.
mnagemnt of demand which hae                                           Completion Septeber 1990.
led to poor financial
performance *nd wasteful use of                                                                                                                    w
water and electricity.
7. Reduce the anti-expert bias ln   Trade and related policy studies.      Commenca February 1990.               Modittcstion of the structuro of
trade regima, including by                                                                                   incentivs In favor of prodct)on
ddreing specific restrictive                                           Completion August 199.                for expert, including
fetures such as specific                                                                                     reccemedtions to reuce levels of
product licensing for mports                                           Covernment adoption of a tle-phased  protection, dsign of a medium toer
and exports In addition to                                             reform program/September 1990.        toritf progrm to be supported by a
Import duty *xemptions.                                                                                      possiblo t      nd financ
operation.
Aumeo Brd approvol in
December 1989 and SAL Second
Troeche Release In October 1990.



Schedul- 2
TRINIDD AND TOBAcO - 1EOWICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
ASSISTANCE iATRIX
BSA   SAL POUCY AREAS AM ACTIONS TO BE TARB BY  cSEofT
Government Oblectlver                 Component Activities                   Tentative SchdulO !1/                   Exeegted Resulte
S.  (So " abov)                       MeHsuremont of indirect tax content   Commence February 1990.                  Introduction of e systm  of indirect
of exports and rebate systems                                                 tnx rebates for exportirs, it
rfor.s                                 Completion June 199.                   warranted.
Covernmont adoption of n reform
program/October 1990.
9. Simplification of Import and       Purchase of hardware and raloted        Commence February 1990.                Customs Administration strengthened.
Export Procedures,                training for tho ASYCUDA system.
Completion October 1998.
10. Eneour    Increased private       Petroleum sector review.                Commeonc  April 1998.                  An *aessmsmnt of TAT 's
etor nv_stent in the                                                                                             cmpetitivenes  for encouragiw
petroloum sector                                                         tRecomendtlons prepared July 1998    lxcreesed privte sector Iw_mnt 6.
in the petroleum Industr qand
Completion January 1991.               re _      tton for imprement
A ssms Bord tpproval In
Docember 1989 and SAL Second
Tranche Reless In October 1990.



Ill             ~~~~~~Annex II
3- Jill
1f11~ 1
01  [-11  ll   d;f-   -1'1it   4111 f- - -
--1si}tJH] * 11.1



-34-
TRNIA  AND T?OAGO
?I C AL ASSISUNO  LOU
Backsloud DocuseMt=L"*
Social Costs of Adjustment in Trinidad and Tobago, John Powell and
Michael Dyson (Cons.), October lr88
The lnmediate Rationalization of Protection In Trinidad and Tobago,
George Pane (Cons.), May 1989
State Enterprise Reform in Trinidad and Tobago, Sunita Kikeri, May
1989
Trinidad and Tobago: Rapid Assessment Water Supply and Sanitation
Sector, Guillermo Yepes, May 1989
Structural Adjustment and the Social Sectors In Trinidad and Tobago:
Issues and Options, Zafiris Tzannatos (Cons.) May 1989
Trinidad and Tobago Petroleum Sector in the Context of the SAL; Back-
to-Office Report of J.?. 2uniga Rivero, May 11, 1989
Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Supply Sector Rapid Assessment, Juan
Barnes (Cons.), May 1989
* Available in the Project File along vith terms of referenced for
proposed TAL financed activity.



0             3                                                           IBA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8D 20S73R
oi js!!ls                                             
sz: I
1MARCH4 I!                                                                      I 



