Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21928
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35680; SCL-3568A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR THE THIRD TRANSPORT PROJECT
March 30, 2001
|This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by r-ecipients only in the perfornmace of their |
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 17, 2001)
Currency Unit = JD
JD 1 = US$ 1.4025
US$ 1 = JD 0.7130
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC          -             Aqaba Railway Corporation
DAR          -             Dar Al-Handasah
ElIB         -             European Investment Bank
GAA          -             Greater Anuan Area
GAB          -             Government Audit Bureau
GOJ          -             Government of Jordan
HAJ          -             Hydro-Agri of Jordan
IBRD         -             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDTA         -             Institutional Development Technical Assistance
ILI          -             Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
IRR          -             Internal Rate of Return
JPMC         -             Jordan Phosphate Mining Company
MOF          -             Ministry of Finance
MOP          -             Ministry of Planning
MOT          -             Ministry of Transport
MOTA         -             Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
MPWH         -             Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NPV          -             Net Present Value
PIU          -             Project Implementation Unit
PSTA         -             Policy Support Technical Assistance
PTC          -             Public Transport Corporation
QAG          -             Quality Assurance Group
Raytheon/WCR -             Raytheon and Wisconsin Central Railway
RMF          -             Road Maintenance Fund
SAR          -             Staff Appraisal Report
TA           -             Technical Assistance
UCOLT        -             Truckers Union
VOC          -             Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President:   Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Joesph P. Saba
Sector Manager:   George Tharakan
Team Leader:   Terje Wolden



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
TRANSPORT III
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              33
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                34
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              66
MAP IBRD 23517R1
The Third Transport Project was designated as an Intensive Learning Implementation Completion
Report (RLI). ILls have the same structure and content as regular implementation completion reports, but
provide more analysis and text, with a focus on lessons learned. In addition, ILIs include: (i) a Stakeholder
Workshop to discuss lessons learned; (ii) a Survey of Beneficiaries, the results of which are discussed at
the workshop; and (iii) the participation of staff from a relevant sector/thematic group in another region to
provide an institutional learning aspect.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P005284                                        Pro ect Name: TRANSPORT III
Team Leader: James A. Reichert     _                       TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: March 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT III                                   L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35680;
SCL-3568A
Country/Department: JORDAN                                                 Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TY - Other Transportation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/05/1987                               Effective: 11/15/93            03/03/94
Appraisal:  03/02/1992                                 MTR: 03/03/97              06/17/97
Approval:  03/11/1993                               Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MPWH
Other Partners: Eurpean Investmnent Bank, European Union
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:      Joseph P. Saba                             Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:       George Tharakan                            Alastair J. McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:   Tere Wolden                                Texe Wolden
ICR Primary Author:   James A. Reichert
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The Bank's stpervision performance was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) twice. In FY 1998, the
Bank's performance was recognized as exceptional. In FY2000, QAG gave the project an overall rating of
satisfactory.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   The key objectives of the Third Transport Project (as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report) were to:



(a)    promote a viable and efficient transport sector by rehabilitating and upgrading road arteries critical
for foreign trade and transit traffic;
(b)    undertake cost-effective preservation of past road investments and reduce long-term transport costs
by: (i) rehabilitating key road sections; (ii) supporting lower axle load limits for trucks and
improving pavement design and construction standards to extend the life of road investments; and
(iii) securing sufficient funding for road maintenance; and
(c)    provide technical assistance for policy support and institutional development to: (i) review
institutional arrangements and enable the Government of Jordan (GOJ) to develop the capacity and
capability of sector agencies to ensure the sustainability of road improvements; and (ii) improve the
operational efficiency and financial viability of the Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC).
3.1.2   The project's physical objectives (a) were straightforward and consistent with the Government's
strategy for the transport sector. Objectives (b) and (c) were more complex and risky, since they required
political decision-making after Board presentation. Overall, the project was responsive to the Borrower's
development priorities in the sector and the conditions prevailing in Jordan at the time of appraisal.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's original development objectives were not revised during the lifetime of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
Based on the project's objectives, three components were designed:
(a)    Reconstruction and upgrading of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road (US$48.04 million)
(b)    Road Rehabilitation Program (US$14.29 million)
(c)    Technical Assistance (US$3.30 million)
With relatively little new road construction needed in rural areas in Jordan, the preservation of past road
investments and the reconstruction and upgrading of key roads were both essential and the focal point of
the project. At the same time, the project sought to develop practical mechanisms that would extend the life
of the highway network, such as reducing axle load limits and improving enforcement of new limits,
introducing more appropriate and longer lasting pavement design and construction methods, and increasing
maintenance funding through the general budget. The project also attempted to establish a more stable
source of funding for road maintenance through the introduction of road user charges on truck transport
(diesel fuel levy) and creation of a road maintenance fund.
3.4 Revised Components:
While the project's original components were not revised, an additional project element was agreed with the
Government during implementation in support of the objective to promote an efficient transport sector (a).
This involved Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Transport (MOT) to franchise bus services in the
Greater Amman Area (GAA), and to establish an authority to regulate public transport in Jordan.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project was prepared before the Bank introduced formal performance ratings for quality at entry.
However, ratings for project objectives and outcomes were made in light of prevailing standards, and not
those at the time of loan approval.
-2 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's objective (a), promoting a viable and efficient transport sector in Jordan, and supporting the
country's role as a regional center for trade and services, may have been too ambitious for one project. The
project's focus was on improving Jordan's competitiveness as a provider of transport services to the
regional hinterland of Aqaba Port, and the core elements were reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi
Yutum Road and implementation of the Road Rehabilitation Program. The project also sought to improve
the operational efficiency of transport services by improving the efficiency of ARC and restructuring the
Public Transport Corporation (PTC). However, these were more piecemeal efforts that were limited by the
Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance.
The reconstruction and upgrading of the 71 km Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert
Highway (main north-south transport axis) eliminated a serious bottleneck in Jordan's transport system,
and helped to ensure that transit transport to neighboring countries (especially Iraq) will remain competitive
vis-a-vis other transit routes, such as the ones through Syria and Turkey.  Throughout the road's
reconstruction, the Bank's safeguard policies were adhered to, particularly environmental issues and
protection of archaeological sites. As part of the road's preparation, archeological surveys identified several
important archaeological sites, which were partly excavated and fenced to protect them from damage
during road construction works. The project was placed in environmental category B.
The three road links included in the Road Rehabilitation Program (totaling 93 kin) were completed on time,
and selected because of their role as principal trade routes and conduits to major population centers. The
Sweileh to Salt link passes through one of the most densely populated areas of the country and is a road
with some of the highest traffic volumes in Jordan. The Sweileh to Airport Junction link plays a central
role in the efficient movement of goods and passengers around Amman and between Ammnan and its
international airport, and is also part of the main Amman to Aqaba highway. The Azraq to Umari link is
important because much of Jordan's foreign trade with Saudi Arabia is transported along this route, and
because 100 percent of Jordan's oil imports (from Iraq) enter the country along an 8 km section of this
road.
Objective (b), preservation of past road investments and reducing long-term transport costs, was also
substantially achieved. The project was instrumental in achieving a critical reduction in overloading of
trucks, and in preventing premature damage to the highway network. Under the project, axle load limits
were reduced from 16 tons per axle to 13 tons under a four-step program. Step one, a condition of
effectiveness, included ratification and implementation of the law to lower axle load limits, and this caused
a 12 month delay in project start-up. The other three steps were dated covenants that reduced axle load
limits by one ton each. The Ministry of Transport was also instrumental in gaining support from the
truckers union's (UCOLT) to ensure that no trucks left Aqaba Port loaded beyond their theoretical
capacity. Surveys taken along the Desert Highway in 2000 show that compliance with the new loading
limits is around 95 percent. Axle load enforcement has also been introduced at all border crossings through
cooperation between the MPWH and the Ministry of Finance through installation of weigh bridges.
Although compliance is not 100 percent in the case of fuel trucks from Iraq or commercial vehicles from
Syria, all overloaded trucks are paying a distance and overload related fine when entering Jordan. This is a
major achievement of the project. Between appraisal and loan approval, surveys showed that the Desert
Highway had the highest axle load/tire pressure recorded anywhere. It was decided that the supervision
consultant would undertake a review of pavement designs, and adopt any findings that would help prevent
premature cracking of pavements. Funding in the general budget for road maintenance was increased by a
- 3 -



factor of about 2.5 between appraisal and project close, largely as a result of the project's emphasis on
preserving past road investments, and as a result of discussions on the need to establish a Road
Maintenance Fund. However, in the project's final two years, there was a reduction in maintenance funding
due to Jordan's difficult economic situation (a decrease in world prices for key exports). Finally, the
Government is cautious when considering new road construction (ref. Amman Ring Road, which was
postponed after Bank/EIB appraisal).
The project also introduced improved pavement design concepts that were more appropriate to Jordan's
environment. These concepts were introduced by the supervision engineer when reviewing the design of the
Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road, and successfully used in full scale on the project. Just after the loan
closed, a regional road pavement seminar was conducted in Jordan that examined methods for improving
road rehabilitation in light of the achievements under the Third Transport Project, and lessons learned from
other countries in the region.
The assessment of the project's institutional objectives (c) is mixed.
On one hand, the project clearly brought about an improvement in the quality of public bus services in
Amman, and at the same time, eliminated Government subsidies in this area. On the other hand, in spite of
much activity and many important partial achievements, the envisaged regulatory body for public
passenger transport in Jordan has yet to be created, and the Ministry of Transport serves as the regulator of
public transport. Improvements in cost recovery from truck users and the creation of a dedicated financing
mechanism for maintenance (Road Maintenance Fund) also were not achieved. Further, although the
concessioning process for ARC was conducted in a professional manner and resulted in the selection of a
qualified concessionaire, factors outside the control of the Government and the project prevented the
conclusion of a final concession agreement. Improvements in the operational efficiency and financial
viability of rail transport in Jordan, as envisaged in the project objectives, was not achieved. However,
significant reductions in the level of staff since the concessioning process began have improved the
fmancial position of ARC.
It is, however, possible that the activities, groundwork and consensus-building carried out as part of the
project's institutional strengthening measures may result in the realization of some or all of these objectives
at a later date, especially the establishment of a entity to regulate public transport.
Overall, the project outcome is rated satisfactory, since most of its relevant objectives were achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Component A: Reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road
The reconstruction and upgrading of the 71 km section of the Desert Highway between Ras El-Naqab and
Wadi Yutum was successfully completed. However, a road pavement study found that the existing base
and sub-base layers of the 71 km section were in better condition than previously thought, and advised
incorporating different pavement standards than called for in the original design. After a delay of around
eight months due to design changes introduced by the supervision consultant before tendering (the award of.
both contracts was originally expected to occur in January 1995), a contract was signed on September 16,
1995 for a price of US$46.94 million (US$25.80 million for Section I and US$21.14 million for Section
II), excluding environmental works and consultant supervision. While the modified design was expected to
reduce the overall cost of the road pavement by around 20 percent, the winning bid was actually about 33
percent lower than the initial cost estimate of US$38.26 for Section I and US$32.20 for Section II, which
- 4 -



seems to justify delays caused by the redesigns.
Although the contract allowed for relatively slow mobilization ( 8 months was agreed to during contract
negotiation), the contractor still experienced difficulties in assembling the necessary equipment, which was
located in various parts of the world, and bringing together a sufficient number of appropriate and
experienced staff on site (the contractor's project manager on site was changed three times over the life of
the contract, often without approval of the Resident Engineer or the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing). The contractor's lack of sufficient working capital also hampered progress. Assurances were
provided by the contractor that a shorter construction period (something closer to two years rather than
three), and modifications to the design would compensate for the slow start-up, and that the overall
completion date would not be affected. However, the road works were substantially completed in October
1999, which was about twelve months later than estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report. Final completion
of the works, including an underpass and two state-of-the-art truck weighing stations, was in June 2000.
An inspection of the road by the team undertaking the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion
Report (ILI) in February 2001 (17 months after the essential completion of works in October 1999)
revealed no premature deterioration. Some sections on the old carriageway (about 35 km), which were not
part of the project have been converted into a second carriageway, contrary to the original project concept.
The strengthening of the old carriageway was not well designed, nor were the works sufficiently carried
out, and signs of distress are present. This work may have to be carried out again shortly.
Although traffic safety has been improved on the road due to the separation of northbound and southbound
traffic, the Survey of Beneficiaries revealed that road safety measures were insufficient in the village of
Humainah, where several children have been killed while attempting to cross the road in the past year. An
underpass was originally planned there, but was not carried out for technical reasons, and remedial
measures are urgently needed. A thorough safety audit during preparation, something that is becoming
standard procedure for Bank road projects, could have improved project outcomes.
The table below provides the two most positive and negative responses regarding the Ras El-Naqab to
Wadi Yutum component, according to those interviewed for the Survey of Beneficiaries.
Beneficiary   Sample Size    Most Positive Aspect             Most Negative Aspect
Truck Drivers    50    Reduced VOCs/travel times (96%)  More animals/pedestrians on road (60%)
Safer driving conditions (78%)  Speed limit too low (10%)
Residents       50    Reduced travel times (46%)    Jeopardizes pedestrian safety (58%)
Better road (24%)            Difficult to cross road (38%)
In spite of delays and some setbacks during construction, the objectives of this component were fully
achieved, and the outcome is rated satisfactory.
4.2.2 Component B: Road Rehabilitation Program
The road rehabilitation program included three roads: (i) Sweileh to Salt - 5 krm; (ii) Sweileh to Airport
Junction - 33 km of Desert Highway; and (iii) Azraq to Umari - 55 km. The physical works for Sweileh to
Salt consisted of a complete pavement reconstruction, while those for the Sweileh to Airport Road involved
minor repairs followed by an asphalt concrete overlay, or milling and asphalt concrete resurfacing. For the
Azraq to Umari Road, reconstruction and rehabilitation, including milling and asphalt concrete resurfacing
and widening of shoulders on the remaining part, was undertaken. Overall, these works were completed
according to schedule.
-5 -



While the physical objective of rehabilitating 93 km of road network was fully achieved as planned and
without cost overrn, the work was not free of difficulties:
*   The Sweileh to Airport road was split into three contracts. The original designs called for
reconstructing about 35 percent of the road length due to weaknesses in the pavement base and
sub-base. However, prior to tendering, and without consulting the Bank, the GOJ changed this to
asphalt concrete resurfacing after milling, a more cosmetic approach with a shorter lifetime. The main
reason for GOJ to chose resurfacing rather than reconstruction seems to be short-term cost savings,
and the desire to avoid large disruptions to traffic during pavement reconstruction. Sections of this
road are now showing some cracking and related pavement deformation, but no total failures.
*   The Azraq to Umari road was completed on schedule, but some sections experienced extensive
pavement damage just after construction. This was at least partly due to exceptionally heavy rains and
flooding during construction, but some questions were also raised by Bank supervision missions about
the adequacy of supervision by MPWH, the quality of construction work, and the appropriateness of
the rehabilitation designs. The GOJ proceeded with the original rehabilitation designs, but carried out
extensive rehabilitation works after the flood, which was financed under this component. The likely
service life of the road section affected by flooding should be acceptable.
*   The Sweileh to Salt road was completed without any significant problems.
In mid-2000, a Bank mission undertook a field visit to assess the condition of all roads rehabilitated under
the component and found them to be in mostly good condition. The inspection found some signs of limited
cracking on all rehabilitated sections. However, with the exception of a segment of road between Sweileh
and the Airport, it was concluded that observed signs of distress were not unusual.
The table below provides the two most positive and negative responses regarding the Road Rehabilitation
component, according to residents who live in villages along rehabilitated roads and were interviewed for
the Survey of Beneficiaries.
Resident    Sample Size      Most Positive Aspect            Most Negative Aspect
Sweileh-Salt     25      More convenient road (68%)  Loud noise from vehicles (40%)
Commercial development (28%)  Difficulty in crossing road (36%)
Sweileh-Airport    25     Easier transport (64%)      Jeopardizes pedestrian safety (60%)
Increase in land values (20%)    High speed of vehicles (32%)
Azraq-Umari       25     More convenient road (40%)  Loud noise from vehicles (28%)
I______________ _Less traffic accidents (24%)  Unsafe crossing road (24%)
The output of the Road Rehabilitation Component is rated satisfactory.
4.2.3 Component C: Technical Assistance
Truck Overloading: An important objective, which was fully achieved under the project, was a reduction
in overloading of trucks through the establishment and enforcement of lower axle load limits. To improve
enforcement, the Govermnent increased the number of fixed and mobile scales, which are operated along
heavily used sections of key highways. In addition, controls of trucks entering Jordan at the Syrian, Iraqi
and Saudi borders were enhanced. Starting July 1, 1999, uniform axle load standards were applied to all
trucks, and any truck with more than a five ton total overload is not allowed to enter Jordan. From 1998 to
2000, the number of trucks weighed at all stations increased, while the percentage of overloaded trucks
declined. Improved enforcement has also led to better compliance and fewer fines, which in 2000, amounted
-6 -



to JD1.3 million (about US$1.86 million).
Pavement Design: In addition to overloaded trucks, another reason for the high rate of deterioration of
road pavements in Jordan was unsuitable pavement design standards that relied on thick asphalt surfacing
over a light sub-base. This is prone to cracking, and is difficult and costly to maintain. The Bank
advocated changing pavement design standards. The benefits of doing so were demonstrated during the
reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert Highway, and the new pavement
design concept is now being applied by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH) for new road
rehabilitation and upgrading projects. A regional road pavement seminar, carried out in Jordan as part of
the Bank's supervision efforts, examined methods for improving road rehabilitation in light of achievements
under the Third Transport Project.
Public Transport Corporation: In February 1997, a policy paper considered measures for reforming
public passenger transport in Amman, and in particular to improve service quality and eliminate
Government support. One of the recommendations to emerge from the paper was to restructure the Public
Transport Corporation, which acted as both regulator and operator of bus services.  The report
reconmmended that an independent regulatory agency be established, and that PTC's remaining routes be
concessioned to private operators. The Government had already signed 15-year concessions with thirteen
different private bus operators to provide service throughout the Greater Amman Area in 1992 and 1993,
but the concessions were seriously flawed in many aspects. In November 1997, the Council of Ministers
reached a decision to create a regulatory commission that would oversee public transport services, and to
franchise PTC's remaining operations.
Learning from mistakes made in concessioning routes to private operators six years earlier, the Government
offered investors four packages comprising 29 routes. Competition was limited to local investors, and two
to three bids were received for each package. Ultimately, four packages were awarded to three different
operators. Each package has a maximum franchise period of ten years, with an option to renew for five
additional years upon mutual agreement. While investors were not obligated to hire former PTC staff,
approximately 10 percent of drivers who had previously worked for PTC found employment with the new
operators. Since the dissolution of PTC in October 1999, bus service in Amman has improved (according
to the Survey of Beneficiaries), 165 new buses have been put into operation, and the Government receives
about US$700,000 in annual concession fees, which will be used to finance the operation of the new
regulatory authority once established.
While PTC's remaining bus routes were franchised and about US$2,500,000 in annual Government
subsidies to PTC eliminated, the creation of a regulatory body was not. Since the Council of Ministers'
decision to reform bus services in the Greater Amman Area, several efforts have been made to develop
appropriate legislation for establishing a regulatory authority, however, no such laws have been enacted.
The consolidation of regulatory powers and resolution of roles and responsibilities, including such issues as
whether the Ministry of Interior or the new regulatory authority should issue licenses to taxi and bus
drivers, has hindered progress. Currently, a new law, with input from relevant mninistries, has been
submitted to the Council of Ministers and is pending approval. The new law would confer responsibility
for developing transport policy and laws to the Ministry of Transport (MOT), and give the new regulatory
authority oversight for regulating all passenger traffic (by land) in Jordan.
The following table provides the three most positive and negative responses regarding private operation of
bus services in the Greater Amman Area, according to bus riders interviewed for the Survey of
Beneficiaries.
-7 -



Beneficiary    Sample Size    Most Positive Aspect            Most Negative Aspect
Bus Passenger     110    Increase in buses/less wait (68%) High speed by young drivers (36%)
Time savings (27%)          Queue congestion (29%)
Better quality buses (12%)  Bad treatment by bus operators (18%)
Aqaba Railway Corporation: Due to the rapid depletion of phosphate at the Northern mines, a new mine
at Shidiya was developed and put into operation. While the Northern Mines were served by rail, the
Shidiya Mine was not. Initially, GOJ had sought to include construction of a new spur line to Shidiya
Mine as part of the project. However, because tariff levels paid by the Jordan Phosphate Mining Company
(JPMC), the only customer of the railway, were unrealistically low, it was felt that an arms length
arrangement on tariff charges was essential for the long-term viability of rail operations. To achieve this,
the involvement of the private sector, possibly through a concession arrangement, was advocated, and this
became clear during project implementation.
Initially, the project sought to improve the operational efficiency and financial viability of ARC by
installing a team of outside consultants to strengthen the railway's operations, However, the idea of a
management team to turn around ARC was abandoned after a study identified two options for restructuring
ARC and financing the spur line to Shidiya Mine: (i) transferring rail operations to JPMC, who would then
choose an operator; or, (ii) operating rail activities under a concession scheme. In agreement with the
Bank, the Government decided to concession railway operations to a private operator, who would also
finance the construction of a spur line to Shidiya. In preparing the concession, the inclusion of a more
expensive spur line, one that would extend the rail line in Aqaba south to the Wadi II industrial area where
a new fertilizer factory was planned, was proposed. The concessioning process was launched in May 1997
and a concession awarded in April 1999 to a consortium led by Raytheon (US), which included Wisconsin
Central Railroad (Raytheon/WCR). An agreement between Raytheon/WCR and JPMC for the transport of
phosphate was negotiated, and changes in the terms of the concession were mutually agreed. However, the
changes that were proposed necessitated Parliamentary approval, and the Government decided that, rather
than risk a prolonged delay in finalizing the transaction, to convert the concession into a leasing
arrangement.
In the interim, a related event occurred which significantly impacted the agreement between the
Raytheon/WCR and the Government. On December 1, 2000, the Board of Directors of Norsk-Hydro
decided to cancel the HAJ Project (Hydro-Agri of Jordan), which would have developed a US$500 million
greenfield fertilizer plant at the Aqaba Industrial Jetty at Wadi II. The plant would have utilized the more
expensive spur line to transport sulfur from Aqaba north to Shidiya, and phosphate and phosphoric acid
south from Shidiya to Aqaba. Since the HAJ Project represented about 40 percent of total throughput, and
up to 60 percent of revenues (due to the transport of sulfur and phosphoric acid - both high revenue items)
for the designated concessionaire, previous arrangements with the Government were no longer financially
viable.
While the privatization of railway operations held great promise and significant progress was achieved, it
did not materialize, and today, ARC continues to operate as a money losing state-owned entity that is
dependent on Government support. The Government could strengthen the financial viability of ARC
operations by increasing the unrealistically low tariff levels paid by JPMC, but is reluctant to do so.
Road Maintenance Funding: One of the project's more important activities was to identify and implement
a cost recovery strategy that would mobilize a more stable source of funding for road maintenance, one
which was outside of the general budget and would involve user fees from the trucking industry. The Road
Transport Policy Issues Study, which was carried out under the project and completed in March 1995,
- 8 -



concluded that a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) should be established as a means of increasing cost
recovery and funding for road maintenance activities. A Policy Seminar was held in Amman in November
1995 to discuss the report's main findings. The report was well received, and both the Bank and Borrower
endorsed the report's conclusions. The Council of Ministers approved the establishment of an RMF in July
1997, and an interim advisory RMF Board was appointed. However, in spite of well prepared draft
legislation and a broad consensus among most decision-makers of the need for an RMF, the Government
has not formalized the RMF. Consequently, the objective of implementing a cost recovery strategy that
would create sufficient and stable resources for road maintenance was not achieved.
Trade Facilitation: In addition to the studies funded through the project, other Technical Assistance
assessments were undertaken in support of the Ministry of Transport using trust fund resources. These
included studies on Transport and Trade Facilitation, and Transport Policy and Sector Strategy Support.
The Trade Facilitation study contributed to a revision of Jordan's "Goods Transport Law," which improved
the quality of road transport for goods. At the time of project close, the revised law was being considered
by the Cabinet and was expected to go to Parliament in the Fall of 2000.
In spite of the fact that the Technical Assistance component had some satisfactory results, this component
is rated unsatisfactory. The Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance complicated
matters and may have affected some of the outputs of this component, especially in the case of the RMF,
where timely follow-on assistance to ensure that the RMF was implemented would have been beneficial.
The project team did an admirable job of mobilizing substitute funds from various donors to carry out
needed technical assistance.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During project appraisal, an economic evaluation was carried out on the project's components for which
benefits were quantifiable, which included the reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road,
and the Road Rehabilitation Program. No economic evaluation was carried out on the Technical
Assistance component, which comprised about three percent of total project cost. A new economic analysis
was conducted for the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report, and the results are listed in
the following table. Underlying assumptions about capital costs, traffic counts, growth rates in traffic, and
vehicle operating costs are detailed in Annex 3.
Activity                         IRR - SAR       IRR - ILI       NPV - SAR      NPV - ILI
(JD mil.)     (JD mil.)
1. Ras El-Nagab to Wadi Yutum      14.2%           17.8%            15.1           29.5
2. Road Rehabilitation
2.1 Sweileh - Salt (5 km)         57.0%           64.8%             2.3            3.4
2.2 Sweileh - Airport (33 km)     33.1%           104.4%           12.6           54.8
2.3 Azraq - Umari (55 kIn)        37.4%           35.0%            10.7           10.7
2.4 Overall Road Rehabilitation   36.0%           73.7%            25.6           68.9
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
-9-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was purposely omitted from the project's design
as an effort to involve regular staff at the Ministries of Public Works and Housing and Transport in project
implementation. In addition, the project deliberately avoided supporting agencies with foreign experts as a
way of speeding project implementation. The objective was to allow Government personnel to strengthen
their skills and capacities through "learning by doing." This objective was partially achieved.
* Some of the MPWH staff gained valuable knowledge and experience through the process of working
with international experts to carry out surveys and analyses to find optimal pavement designs.
*   A limited number of staff at the Ministry of Transport participated in the preparation, bidding and
negotiation of the concession for the Aqaba Railway Corporation, and gained valuable experience and
knowledge on the legal, economic, financial and social implications of concessioring railway
operations.
*   By successfully franchising the Public Transport Corporation's bus routes to private operators, some
staff of the Ministry of Transport acquired knowledge and experience in this area, which should be
useful once a regulatory agency is established.
The Survey of Beneficiaries revealed that staff from Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH) and
MOT were critical of the fact that only a select few professionals were involved in substantive project
issues, and that knowledge sharing was limited. It was also felt that more training on the Bank's
procurement and disbursement procedures, financial management policies, and even English language,
should be provided to a broader range of staff.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. l Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The objective of establishing Aqaba Railway Corporation as a financially viable enterprise through
concessioning its operations was affected by a global economic downturn in the market for phosphate and
fertilizers. This contributed to the withdrawal of Jordan's external business partners (Norsk-Hydro) from
plans to invest in new facilities at the Aqaba Industrial Jetty and removed the basis for the agreement
reached with Raytheon, and the concessioning of ARC.
In addition, the rehabilitation of the Azraq to Umari road was affected by exceptional rains and flooding,
which caused some additional costs for repairs and may affect the service life of works carried out.
The creation of a sustainable mechanism to mobilize sufficient funding for road maintenance through
establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund was partially affected by the worsening economic situation,
which had resulted in a serious reduction of trade and transit business in Jordan. However, the main factor
was under govemment control (below).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The creation of a Road Maintenance Fund in Jordan was preceded by broad discussions and a
consensus-building process. In addition, a draft law was prepared by the RMF Board, which had the
support of all parties concemed, including the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The establishment of an RMF
was designed to eliminate MOF's annual road maintenance allocation of about JD 11 million by converting
some of the fuel taxes and other govenmment charges on road traffic into true user charges. These charges
would be deposited directly into the RMF. However, the process was drawn out, and after a change of
- 10-



Minister, the Ministry of Finance withdrew its support for the concept. In essence, this killed the initiative
of introducing road user charges to finance road maintenance.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Public Works and Housing decided, unilaterally, to change road designs, disregarding
earlier agreements and the advice of technical experts. In general, the MPWH went for less costly designs,
which are easier and faster to implement, and which cause less intemruption to traffic during construction.
This is likely to adversely affect the useful life of investments made on a section of the Sweileh to Airport
Road.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project savings of around US$9.23 million were realized. Reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi
Yutum Road was less than anticipated by about US$5.36 million, due primarily to a low contract price and
the contractor's acceptance of non-price escalation clauses in their contracts. There was a reduction in the
Road Rehabilitation Program of US$2.58 million because of a change in the design of a section of the
Airport Road, which was given a less costly asphalt overlay rather than reconstruction as planned. The
Technical Assistance (TA) component cost less by US$1.29 million because the Govenmuent decided to
concession the railway's operations, rather than provide a team of experts to improve ARC management.
The reduced cost of the project did not affect the outcome. It did, however, reduce the Bank's overall loan
by US$2.96 million (to US$32.04 million).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability rating for this project is "likely." The sustainability of the rehabilitated sections
of highway will depend upon regular and adequate routine and periodic maintenance. There are strong
incentives for maintaining the condition of the improved road segments, especially the Desert Highway,
which is the principal route for transporting goods to and from the Port of Aqaba. The same is true of the
Azraq to Umari section of road, over which all of Jordan's oil imports from Iraq and the majority of trade
with Saudi Arabia is transported. Also, the Sweileh to Airport road serves as a primary trade route.
On the institutional side, the Government has successfully reduced the level of truck overloading by
consistently enforcing the law, and through continued efforts to develop weigh stations at key border
crossings. Five stations have been established at the country's borders in the past three years, including
with Syria (September 1997), Iraq (November 1997), Saudi Arabia (January 1999 at Ad Durra and Al
Umari), and Israel (August 2000). This reduction in axle loads should greatly enhance the sustainability of
road investments across the entire Jordanian road network.
While the transfer of rail operations to private operators did not occur, the concessioning of ARC's
operations remains unfmished business for the Government. Commitment to conclude this transaction
remains high.
Although an RMF was never made fully functional, the Government was exposed to the mechanics of
setting-up a Road Maintenance Fund. When properly established, RMFs can provide a reliable source of
revenue, which is typically outside regular road budgets, to finance maintenance activities. At the same
time, because they are financially independent, discipline in decision-making regarding maintenance
- 11 -



activities is instilled. Should the draft law to establish an RMF eventually be enacted, it would improve the
sustainability of project investments in roads. Presently, it is unclear whether there will be sufficient
funding to carry out maintenance activities over the next five years.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are relatively few transitional anrangements necessary under this project. The civil works have been
satisfactorily completed, and financing aside, the maintenance and operation of these assets is well within
the capacity and experience of staff at MPWH.
While the Public Transport Company's remaining bus routes in Amman were liquidated under the project,
the establishment of an agency to implement policy and regulate activity remains an important action to be
completed. To preserve the many gains that have been achieved to date, the establishment of a regulatory
agency is of critical importance. The Council of Ministers is currently considering a draft law to establish
the Public Transport Regulatory Commission.
The Government remains committed to elininating its financial support to, and improving the operational
efficiency of, the Aqaba Railway Corporation. A decision on whether to negotiate an amendment to the
Lease Agreement with Raytheon in light of Norsk-Hydro's decision to cancel the HAJ Project, or to begin
the process anew, is pending.
Tlhe implementation of a cost recovery strategy that would create a stable source of financing for road
maintenance activities was not achieved. While broad support for establishing an RMF exists, there is also
reluctance to increase user fees during times of economic uncertainty. As a result, this endeavor has stalled
and is unlikely to be realized unless there is a follow-on Bank operation in the sector. The issue of cost
recovery and establishment of an RMF was addressed in the proposed (and appraised) Amman Ring Road
Project. One of several activities under the proposed project was Technical Assistance to make the Road
Maintenance Fund fully operational. If this project were to be revived, it would provide an opportunity to
continue Bank support for cost recovery and road financing.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation was mixed. On the one hand, the conditions of project
effectiveness were adequate. In particular, insistence by Bank staff that a decree pennitting axle loads of
16 tons (instead of the legal limit of 13 tons) be annulled, and that the lower limit be enforced, was highly
appropriate, even if it caused a delay in project effectiveness by almost one year. This condition,
accompanied by effective enforcement measures agreed during preparation, most likely avoided losses to
the national economy, since it reduced the wear on and extended the life of Jordan's highway network.
Bank staff also mobilized PHRD funding for a pavement study carried out after appraisal to see if the
pavement design criteria used in Jordan were appropriate.
On the other hand, this project suffered from a prolonged period of preparation. First identified in 1989, all
preparatory activities came to a halt in the months leading up to and after the Gulf War. When travel
restrictions were finally lifted, a Bank team went to Jordan to revive the project. However, due to a number
of changes in Bank staffing, the composition of the new team was such that it did not include any staff who
had previously been involved in preparing the project. These disruptions, as well as an eagemess by both
the Govemment and the Bank to get the project to the Board, probably affected the quality of preparation.
- 12 -



Desirable modifications to the road pavement design, which were proposed by the construction supervision
engineer before bidding could start, contributed to delays.
Greater attention should also have been given to road safety aspects in the geometrical design of works for
the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum road. This became apparent during a review of the Survey of
Beneficiaries, in which people living along some sections of the road, especially in the villages of
Humaimah, Rashadiya and Dabet Hanout, stated that crossing was both difficult and risky, and that
serious accidents in which pedestrians were fatally struck by vehicles had increased. While widening the
road into dual carriageways tends to reduce truck accidents, it also makes it more difficult for pedestrians
to cross. In just one location along the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum road was a pedestrian underpass
constructed. An audit to assess road safety issues and the need for pedestrian crossings would have been
beneficial before detailed design of the road was completed. In hindsight, some of the project's savings
could have been used to build in safety measures.
Project risks identified during appraisal related to construction costs and the availability of counterpart
funding. These risks did not materialize, since construction costs were mostly lower than anticipated, and
counterpart funds were generally available. However, difficulties in irmplementing institutional reforms,
such as establishing a Road Maintenance Fund and improving the efficiency of ARC, were not identified
during project preparation, and these risks did materialize.
This report concludes that the Bank's perfornance during identification and preparation of the project was
marginally satisfactory.  While the rush to appraise the project early after the Gulf crisis was
understandable, it also affected project quality at entry. This finding is based on present Bank standards for
quality at entry, which are more stringent than those prevailing at the time the project was appraised. It
should be noted that this rating only considers the Bank's performance during preparation, and that no
attempt was made to assess the performance of the European Investment Bank (EIB), which financed the
construction of Section II of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road.
7.2 Supervision:
Throughout the project's lengthy implementation period, seventeen supervision missions were carried out
between March 1994 and November 1999, which is an average of about four missions per year. A policy
of using frequent supervision of short duration was warranted because of the: (i) problems encountered
with the main road contractor; (ii) need to ensure that road works were undertaken in accordance with
design specifications; (iii) large number of studies undertaken with policy seminars and workshops; and (iv)
difficulty in concessioning railway operations. Cooperation among Bank missions, implementing agencies
and cofinanciers was generally good. Bank staff provided excellent advice and support to the Borrower in
the areas of railway concessioning and franchising of bus routes in Amman.
The mid-term review, conducted in June 1997, concluded that in spite of a slow start and delays in
undertaking the project's main civil works, much progress had been achieved, especially in terms of
restructuring the railway operations through concessioning, and in seeking to establish a Road Maintenance
Fund.
Continuity of Bank staff throughout supervision was achieved, which is quite remarkable given the long
implementation period, and was particularly important due to some of the difficulties encountered and the
need to continuously follow-up on numerous issues. The skill mix of the team members was good.
However, while the Borrower had a financial management system in place prior to project launch, and all
civil works and construction supervision financed by the Bank and EIB were accounted, more emphasis
- 13 -



should have been placed on ensuring that all non-Bank financed project expenditures were being properly
recorded.  Spending by the Government and cofinanciers on Technical Assistance was not well
documented.  In the project's final year, the Bank asked that an independent auditor provide a
comprehensive account of all expenditures under the project. The purpose of this exercise was to provide a
full and comprehensive accounting of project, expenditures, and was related to the Bank's increased
emphasis on financial accountability during the latter stages of project implementation.
The Bank demonstrated a willingness to respond to the Borrower's needs by: (i) adding the issue of urban
passenger transport to the project during supervision, and mobilizing additional financing for technical
assistance on grant terms; (ii) assisting the Government to concession ARC; and, (iii) agreeing to extend
the project's closing date for six months on two occasions. Response time to the Borrower's requests for
non-objections was generally adequate.
The Bank's performance during the supervision period was considered highly satisfactory. Again, no
attempt was made to assess the performance of the EIB during implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Initial weaknesses during preparation were overcome in
the implementation phase, when Bank staff worked closely with the Borrower to resolve design problems
and other issues. Bank staff consistently provided sound advice and support in the area of railway
concessioning, the creation of a Road Maintenance Fund, the concessioning of bus routes in Amman, and
other institutional reforms, even if some of the objectives in this area were not achieved as desired. Bank
staff also helped the Borrower improve pavement design standards and resolve technical issues on the road
rehabilitation component caused by flooding and inadequate supervision. The Bank assisted in securing
co-financing for the project, including a loan from the European Investment Bank and grants from the
Governments of Japan, Norway and Denmark. The Borrower's contribution to the ILI was complimentary
of the Bank team's performance throughout project preparation and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Both the Borrower and the Bank share responsibility for insufficient project preparation. This relates
mainly to delays caused by modifications to the design of civil works, the need for greater attention to road
safety issues, and the absence of financial arrangements to properly record all project-related expenditures,
regardless of source. Nevertheless, the Borrower's staff was persistent and committed to preparing the
project, in spite of the interruptions caused by the Gulf War, and their contributions were significant. The
Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Throughout project implementation, the Borrower was fully committed to the project, and had a very
positive and important role in the identification, excavation and protection of archaeological sites before
civil works began. During the design of reconstruction works for the 71 km Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum
section of the Desert Highway, five archaeological sites were identified along the road's proposed
alignment. The MPWH, the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA), and the supervising consultant
responded quickly and effectively to devise a coherent plan to excavate and protect the sites, in accordance
with the Bank's OP 11.03. A small museum was built near Ras El-Naqab to house the archaeological
finds.
- 14 -



While norial day-to-day implementation activities were mostly satisfactory, some overall problems
existed. Most serious was the fact that MPWH implemented road designs, which at times were different
from those previously agreed, without fully consulting the Bank before doing so.
There were some areas in which the implementing agencies could have been more proactive. The Ministry
of Public Works and Housing was slow to take action on matters related to contractor deficiencies for the
Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert Highway. Also, the process of procuring supervision
services and local contractors to undertake the works associated with the Road Rehabilitation component
could have been launched prior to effectiveness. As a result, it took a relatively long time from
effectiveness to award of the first road contract. The supervision of the first road rehabilitation contracts
was carried out by MPWH staff and was sometimes inadequate. The Government did later agree to have
the remaining contracts supervised by local consultants, which improved the situation. At times, there was
slowness in disbursing funds from the project's Special Account to pay local and intemational contractors
for work completed.
The Govermment's aversion to taking difficult decisions was also evident in the effort to improve ARC's
operations and establish an RMF. Although politically challenging, had the Govemment been willing to
increase tariffs for the transport of phosphate by rail, it would have gone a long way to making ARC
financially viable. Further, an increase in tariffs would have preserved the option of utilizing a management
team to improve the operational efficiency of the railway. In terms of a Road Maintenance Fund, the
Transport Policy Issues Study contributed to the creation of an RMF and appointment of an interim
advisory board, but the Government's reluctance to borrow for follow-on TA to implement the Study's
recommendations delayed, and may have prevented, the establishment of a fully empowered board.
The Borrower was lax in accounting for all project-related expenditures. It was agreed that MPWH and
MOT would record project-related expenditures in separate accounts and provide this information to the
Ministry of Planning (MOP), which would be responsible for consolidating and maintaining the project's
overall financial records.  However, while MPWH did maintain reasonable records for Bank and
EIB-financed expenditures related to civil works and construction supervision, MOP did not ensure that all
cofinanced project expenditures (grants from donors) were being properly recorded. The Government
Audit Bureau (GAB) conducted annual audits of the project's accounts, but GAB was also involved in
approving individual invoices for payment, and therefore, not fully independent. However, it should be
noted that audit reports were submitted annually, no significant matters were noted in the audits, and the
reports were accepted by the Bank.
Slowness to implement the agreed reduction in axle load limits from 16 tons per axle to 13 tons (a condition
of project effectiveness and dated covenants under the project) caused delays, but should be regarded as a
major policy achievement, as the delays turned out to be well justified.
The Borrower's performance during implementation was rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
See section 7.5.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The conditionalities of the Loan and Project
- 15-



Agreements were substantially complied with, and the Bank's procedures and requirements were followed.
At times, there were gaps in reporting requirements. Some of this might be due to the numerous staffing
changes, which occurred with regularity at MOP, MPWH and MOT. The lack of proper consolidated
accounting arrangements should have been addressed long before the project's final year.
8. Lessons Learned
A couple of significant lessons can be learned from the Third Transport Project
Implementation of Road Maintenance Fund: In Jordan, there was (and still is) broad consensus that a
Road Maintenance Fund is a viable means of establishing a more sufficient and stable source of funding for
road maintenance. Nevertheless, the Government did not establish a fully functional RMF. The reason
seems to be that given the present situation of general economic uncertainty, it was politically not viable to
take measures that would increase fuel prices or reduce general budget revenues. Another reason was the
apparent lack of necessary independence from MPWH. Similar situations have been observed in other
countries. The lesson to be drawn is that the introduction of RMFs can be politically sensitive, and that
such measures are more likely to succeed when undertaken in the context of an improving economy.
Bank Lending for Road Maintenance: One could argue that road maintenance should not be financed
through Bank loans. While this may hold true in general terms, the case of the Third Transport Project
shows that in times of economic difficulties, when a country cannot mobilize sufficient financing for road
maintenance, lending for periodic road maintenance may be one of the best investments the Bank can
finance. This is because it: (i) prevents deterioration of road assets, which require huge investments to
rehabilitate; (ii) avoids a significant increase in trade and business transaction costs in the form of higher
vehicle operating/transport costs on bad roads; and (iii) maintains an essential element for economic
growth.
Road Safety: Numerous residents living along roads that were rehabilitated under the project were
interviewed as part of the Survey of Beneficiaries. While most welcomed the improvements, a majority
complained that residents and pedestrians were exposed to an increased risk of traffic accidents, and that
lives had been lost. In particular, the design of roads that pass through populated areas must include an
assessment of safety issues and the need for pedestrian crossings (bridges or underpasses) and sidewalks of
sufficient width.
Project Design: The project's objective (a), promoting a viable and efficient transport sector in Jordan,
and supporting the country's role as a regional center for trade and services, was too broad and
ambitious. While the successful implementation of the project's road components certainly contributed to a
more efficient transport sector, it is difficult to measure the extent to which transport services, and the
sector as a whole, benefited. Realistic and attainable objectives should form the basis of a project's design.
Project Preparation: The project was essentially prepared before 1993. Since then, it has become
common practice in Bank-financed projects to insist on several quality-enhancing measures before a project
can be approved. The experience of the Third Transport Project reconfirms the adequacy of these
requirements, including:
*   A project's design should be such that significant disbursement may take place during the first year of
the project. For infrastructure-related projects, this requires that preparation of adequate technical
designs and bidding documents for at least some major project expenditure items be completed by
Board, and that actual bidding start before project effectiveness. Both the Borrower and the Bank
- 16 -



should resist the self-imposed pressure to "get projects to the Board" before certain dates, such as
elections or the end of the financial year, since this causes a significant risk of delays and low quality at
entry, unnecessary commitment fees for the Borrower, or both.
*   An adequate financial management system must be in place before the project starts, and a qualified
accountant appointed prior to effectiveness. Independent financial auditors should also be selected and
under contract before effectiveness.
*   The implementing agencies must be staffed with a procurement specialist who is familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines.
Privatization: The process of involving the private sector in the operation of state-owned entities and
services is difficult and time-consuming. The political dimensions of such undertakings introduce
uncertainties, which are often not fully appreciated. Nevertheless, this should not discourage the Bank
from embarking on privatization and restructuring processes, but the risks of those processes should be
clearly recognized and spelled out during project preparation and appraisal.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) - Yes or No?: During project preparation, it was decided that a PIU
would not be created, with the specific objective that regular staff of the implementing agencies would
strengthen their skills and capabilities through "learning by doing". This positive objective was achieved in
part (see section 4.5), but some negative aspects were also present, from which lessons can be drawn:
O  The number of professionals involved in the project was limited in each of the three ministries, and
informal "de facto" implementing units existed, which did not share infornnation with a wider circle of
ministry staff. Staff not involved in the project felt left out, and decried the absence of opportunities
for training and information-sharing. This became clear during the Stakeholder Workshop.
v   Staff changes in implementing agencies were frequent. Project knowledge was often lost when staff
left, and replacements had little infonnation when they took over.
*   No one individual had the full picture of the project. Monitoring of overall progress and total project
expenditures was limited, and information gathering was complicated by the fact that various
individuals at different locations had information on specific aspects, and little cross-communication
took place.
As such, the idea of not creating a full PIU is valid in Jordan and other countries where comparable human
resources exist across Government ministries. Under these circumstances, ministry staff can and should
run specific project components in their areas of competence. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable that a
small Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit be established and charged with general oversight
responsibilities for the project, and for consolidating project accounts.
Training: The project clearly lacked a training and human resource development component for good
reasons, since the Government of Jordan is not willing to borrow from IBRD for training and technical
assistance. The Survey of Beneficiaries and Stakeholder Workshop revealed strong criticism that
knowledge-sharing was limited, as were general training opportunities for most staff under this project.
Designation as an Intensive Learning ICR:   Because this project was designated as an ILI two
months after its closing date, it was more challenging and costly to complete. It might have been possible
to finance the additional activities required for an ILI, specifically the Survey of Beneficiaries and
Stakeholder Workshop, under the project had it been known that an ELI would be required.
- 17 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.    BACKGROUND
The Third Transport Project was a Project financed by the World Bank, the European
Investment Bank and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
(Borrower), as well as the European Union and the Norwegian Fund & Japanese
Government (PHRD).
The broad objectives of the Project were to promote an efficient and economically and
financially viable transport sector by:
-     upgrading major foreign trade arteries;
-     preserving past road investments through rehabilitation of key road sections,
enforcement of axle load limits, improvements in road pavement construction, and
establishment of dedicated funds for road maintenance activities; and
-     Providing Technical Assistance for policy support and institutional development of
sector agencies.
The Project consisted of the following components:
One.  Reconstruction of Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert Highway.
Two.  Road Rehabilitation Program for the following roads and junctions:
-     Sweileh - Salt Road (5 Km)
-     Sweileh - Airport Road (33 Km)
-     Azraq - Umari Road (55 Km)
Three. Technical Assistance to resolve key policy and institutional issues in the road transport sector,
including bus transport restructuring in Amman and the privatization of Aqaba Railway
Corporation.
This report presents the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report,
providing the Borrower's evaluation of the Project's objectives, design, implementation and
operation, and the Borrower's evaluation of its own and the World Bank's performance, and
the efficiency of Project implementation. The report is based upon the experiences gained by
the Borrower throughout the Project implementation processes as extracted through a
questionnaire filled by the Borrower's counterpart agencies, namely the Ministry of Public
Works and Housing, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Planning.
2.    EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND IMPLEMENTATION
2.1    Overall Evaluation of Proiect
In general, the overall objectives of the Project had been reasonably achieved.
With Ras El-Naqab Highway being part of a major artery, its reconstruction did contribute to
upgrading transportation for foreign trade.
- 18 -



The Project also helped in preserving past road investments through making use of existing
facilities.
Appropriate policies and institutional reforms have also been developed in the transport sector
through this Project:
-     Road Transport Policy and Institutional Issues Study.
-     Restructuring of Aqaba Railway corporation.
The two studies which were envisaged in the project were prepared under the supervision of the
Ministry of Planning after which several other studies were performed by the MOP and the
MPWH as follow up on the recommendation of these studies which resulted in the required
refomns in the Public Transport Sector & the ARC.
Also the preparation for the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund was done by
MPWH. However, the economic situation in the country presented this for being implemented.
The efficiency of public sector transport, especially bus transport services has increased. New
opportunities for and actual involvement of the private sector contributed to this outcome, and
actually created new employment opportunities. However, it is thought that the privatization of
ARC - which is not yet complete - will lead to reduction in the number of staff.
Trade opportunities have also been improved as a result of implementation of this Project,
mainly through facilitating transport to and from Aqaba.
The Project has also reduced reliance on Government subsidies to finance transport sector
activities especially in public road transport and soon rail transport.
The Project further improved cost recovery for road maintenance since measures were taken to
reduce road maintenance cost such as close monitoring of adherence to axle load limits.
Furthermore, a by-product of implementing this Project had been improved coordination
amongst Ministries and Public Authorities concerning transport sector investments and
operation.
In terms of positive spill-over on the overall economy, it is asserted that the Project has
contributed in this regard, especially in helping to reduce Vehicle Operating Cost in addition to
enhancing returns from tourism, foreign trade and industry.
2.2    Project Component Evaluation: Rehabilitation of the Ras El-Nagab to Wadi Yutum Road
Implementing this component of the Project slightly reduced travel times between Aqaba and
other destinations along the Desert Highway, including land transport time of goods going to
and coming from Aqaba port. Improvement of the road itself also contributed to reducing
vehicle operating costs on that road and also road safety. No reduction in road transport tariffs
to and from Aqaba took place. An indirect outcome of the Project may also have been a slight
improvement of the Quality of life for communities along this road section. The Project,
however, fulfilled the purpose of removing the bottleneck in this 71 km section. One negative
- 19 -



aspect was the traffic accident hazards especially those including Pedestrian children living in
villages along the road.
2.3    Proiect Component Evaluation: Road Rehabilitation
Implementing this component of the Project helped reduce part of the backlog of maintenance
activities, road roughness (IR1), travel times and vehicle operating costs along rehabilitated
sections. Also, an increase in road safety along rehabilitated sections resulted. Possible positive
impact on quality of life for communities along the rehabilitated sections may also have
occurred.
2.4    Proiect ComDonent Evaluation: Technical Assistance
This component of the Project helped strengthen the institutional arrangements to carry out its
functions in the road sector. Also, a strategy for cost recovery from road users to finance road
sector activities is currently being devised, but is not yet completed. However, no selection or
implementation has taken place as part of this Project of a regulatory regime to address tariff
setting for road and rail transport, overloading of trucks and penalties or licensing and import
controls.
It is thought that accountability and commercial orientation of public enterprises in the sector
has increased, especially for ARC. Nonetheless, due to ARC privatization not being completed
as yet, this conclusion is to be further verified.
2.5    Evaluation of Proiect Impact upon Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC)
The Project has provided a substantial contribution towards the privatization of the ARC.
However, the privatization process is not yet complete. As such, evaluation, at this stage, of the
Project impact upon ARC's productivity or its financial viability, or upon Ma'an's economy
cannot yet be made.
As for the number of employees at ARC, these have dropped from (1329) in 1992 to (1134) in
1999, and (686) today. It is anticipated that (500) employees will be employed by the new
Railway Company, with the remainder transferred to different Governmental agencies.
Regarding the transport cost of Phosphates, in 1992 the cost per ton per km was 15.5 US Cents
(Hassa Mine and Abiad Mine). In the year 2000, the cost was 16.6 cents (Hassa Mine), 19.0
Cents (Abiad Mine) and 26.0 Cents (Shedyeh Mine). The Project had no impact in this regard
since the privatization of the ARC is not yet complete.
2.6    Evaluation of Project Impact upon Restructurinn of Bus Services
The dissolution of the Public Transport Corporation is now in the final stages, which
dissolution had been one of the Project reconmmendations. The number and size of private bus
operators as well as bus ridership has since increased. The studies carried out as part of this
Project helped in this regard.
As for the quantity and quality of provided public passenger transport services in Amman,
these had been on the decline since 1992. However, in 1999 four route investment packages
- 20 -



were introduced to the private sector. A significant number of routes were franchised. Both the
quality and quantity of services improved significantly. The improvement in services led also to
an increase in fares. However, passenger surveys should periodically be conducted to determine
passengers' degree of satisfaction and the extent to which the dissolution of the PTC
contributed in this regard.
3.    Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
In general, there had been a high level of coordination amongst the concerned govermment
counterparts. Project follow-up had been quite efficient. Decision making had also been
efficient with decisions made in due time.
However, some of the objectives could not be achieved fully:
1.    ARC Privatization: due to the changing conditions in the project users (Norsk-Hydro)
which resulted in the fact that the investor is now insisting that the financial
profitability of the project affected. Hence they are demanding renegotiation. The
government is, however, still committed to this project.
2.    Establishment of Road Maintenance Fund: due to the objection of the Budget
Department and Ministry of Finance.
4.    Evaluation of the World Bank's Performance
World Bank's performance on this Project had been generally satisfactory. The input of Bank
staff in overall Project design had been good. Bank procedures for Project preparation and
appraisal had been acceptable.
The World Bank staff involved in the Project had been sufficiently qualified. Generally, the
staff dealt with their counterparts respectfully.
World Bank supervision had generally been efficient, with reasonable intervals between
supervision missions. Nonetheless, shorter intervals would have contributed more to the
efficiency of the Project implementation.
As for World Bank Procurement procedures and requirements, these are thought to be too
demanding and strict which led to additional costs. The same applies to World Bank
requirements for financial management and fiduciary safeguards.
Generally, World Bank responses to non-objection requests, general inquiries and resolution of
problems had been prompt enough, with few delays at times. The W. B. prequalification
criteria was very strict in a way that resulted in preventing the prequalification of any
Jordanian Contractor for the Ras El-Naqab Project.
5.    Evaluation of Efficiency of Project Implementation
It is believed that the main constraints to more efficient Project implementation included:
i.    No training was made to local staff at the beginning of the project.
-21 -



ii.    Delay sometimes in obtaining no objection from the World Bank for proposed nomination of
Consultant's personnel.
iii.    At a certain stage in the project implementation, different staff members from different
Departments (especially the Privatization Dept.) were involved in the project with separate
visits from those made by the task manager. This caused some confusion in coordination with
Government Agencies since some of them did not coordinate with the Borrower Representative,
MOP.
To improve future operation, it is anticipated that the following factors would contribute in this
regard:
i.    Training of implementing agency staff to deal with conditions and regulations relating to World
Bank loans and procurement procedures at the beginning of the project.
ii.    Holding more technical-oriented workshops at the beginning, during and at the end of the
Project. The workshops should be designed in such a way as to help the local staff in
implementing and evaluating outcomes of the Project.
iii.    Further assistance by the World Bank for building capacity of local staff by providing
hands-on training on software applicable to the Project.
iv.    Better coordination among World Bank staff from different Departments when dealing with the
same projects.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None received.
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of pertinent project documents can be found in Annex 7.
A stakeholder/beneficiary workshop was held in Amman on February 28, 2001. The objective, agenda and
results of the meeting, as well as a list of participants, are included in Annex 9. The main results of the
workshop are reflected at various places in this document.
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
_      ___                     ___                        rf  &   t S  ..R  
Reduced travel time and vehicle opera6ing    N/A                             Achieved.
costs for traversing the upgraded road
sections
Improved control of truck overloading and    N/A                             Achieved.
axle controls.
Improved operational efficiency and reduced  N/A                              Not achieved.
financial losses for the Aqaba Railway
Corporation.
Output Indicators:
Reduction in Vehicle Operating Costs.  N/A                                   Vehicle Operating Costs (JD per 1000 km)
Cars - 83 (w Project)
Cars - 90 (wlo Project)
Pick-up Trucks - 129 (w Project)
Pick-up Trucks - 143 (w/o Project)
Buses - 558 (w Project)
Buses - 583 (w/o Project)
Heavy Trucks - 662 (w Project)
Heavy Trucks - 764 (w/o Project)
Improvement in the Road Conditions    N/A                                    IRI Measurements
measured by IRI.                                                             Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum
2000: Not measured.
w/o Project: 6.0
Reducion in average axle loads and degree  N/A                               Average Axle Loads per Truck
of overdoading.                                                              2000: 13 tons
w/o/ Project: 16 tons
Percentage of Overloaded Trucks
2000: <10%
w/o Project: >30%
Elimination of Deficit of ARC, the Aqaba  N/A                                ARC Deficit
Railway Corporation.                                                         1997: JD4,321,000
1989: JD948,000
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
l. Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road
Civil Works (2 contracts)                         48.04           51.50           107
Supervision of Works                                1.50           3.41          227
Environmental Supervision                          0.10            0.20          200
2. Road Rehabilitation Program
Priority Road Links                               14.29           13.56           95
Supervision of Works                               0.50            0.14           28
3. Technical Assistance
Phase I Policy Support, Transport Sector           0.80            0.90           113
Phase II Institutional Development                 2.50            1.11           45
Total Baseline Cost                                 67.73           70.82
Physical Contingencies                              4.81
Price Contingencies                                 7.51
Total Project Costs             80.05          70.82
Total Financing Required             80.05           70.82
Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
3. Works                     30.40        15.78         0.00         28.47        74.65
(21.20)      (11.00)       (2.80)       (0.00)      (32.0)
2. Goods c                   0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         2.80         2.60         5.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.80)       (0.00)        (2.80)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
.        ~~~~(0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     30.40         15.78        2.80         31.07        80.05
(21.20)      (11.00)       (2.80)       (0.00)      (35.00)
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (ActuaUlLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
..                                         ...Itur. .af~goiy  N~8.F.    T   _otat s
1. Works                        32.36            8.13          0.00           24.57          65.06
(22.83)         (5.66)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (28.49)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           3.75           2.01          5.76
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.55)         (0.00)         (3.55)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
.   (0 .00)    (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         32.36           8.13           3.75          26.58          70.82
(22.83)         (5.66)         (3.55)         (0.00)        (32.04)
1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by ComPonent (in US$ million equivlent)
Sii t               -                               _v  
1. Ras El-Naqab to Wadi
Yutum Road
Section I               21.20      9.20                 19.05      7.88               89.9   85.7
Section II                         8.62      19.85                 7.01      17.56            81.3   88.5
Environmental Superv.               0.10                           0.20                      200.0
Superv. of Works         1.50                           3.41                          227.3
2. Road Rehab. Program
Priority Road Links      11.00      4.78                 9.44       4.12               85.8   86.2
Superv. of Works         0.50                           0.14                          28.0
3. Technical Assistance
Ph. I Transport Polcy    0.80                           0.00                  0.58     0.0
Ph. II Institutional Dev.          2.50                            0.33       1.10            13.2
- 25 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
As part of the ILI process, an economic evaluation was undertaken on both of the project's civil works
components: (1) reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum Road; and (2) the Road Rehabilitation
Program. The economic rates of return for the road improvement components were calculated on the basis
of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOCs) for passenger cars, pick-up trucks, buses and heavy trucks.
Actual capital costs, the construction period over which each of the roads was reconstructed or
rehabilitated, and average daily traffic counts were also incorporated in the analysis. VOCs were
recalculated in HDM-III using updated unit costs in 2000 terms.
Average daily traffic figures for vehicles in 1995 and 2000 were obtained from the Traffic Safety
Department at the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, and traffic was assumed to grow at 4% per
annum beginning in Year 2000. During appraisal, a discount rate of 10% was assumed for Jordan in view
of the relatively easy access to European and Middle Eastem capital markets, and this rate was also used in
updating the evaluation. Tables with recalculated internal rates of return (IRRs) and net present values
(NPVs) can be found in the project files.
Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum
Actual capital costs to reconstruct the 71 km Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert Highway
were about 7% more than estimated in the SAR. In addition, there was a two year delay in initiating civil
works, which began in 1995 rather than 1993, and it took six years to complete works, rather than four as
envisaged. However, these drawbacks were offset by higher than expected traffic volumes, which had a
substantial impact on savings in VOCs, especially for trucks, and resulted in an IRR that was in line with
expectations.
The SAR estimated that traffic would grow at 8% per annum between 1995 and 2000 along this section of
the Desert Highway. However, growth in traffic averaged nearly 20% per annum during this period.
While SAR estimates for 1995, 1996 and 1997 were reasonably close to actual traffic counts, estimates for
1998, 1999 and 2000 were 200/o to 45% less than actuals, and savings in VOCs began to accelerate during
the project's final three years. As a result, the IRR recalculated for the ILI was 17.8%, which was higher
than the SAR's estimate of 14.2%. In addition, the SAR's expected NPV of JD15.1 million was half of the
recalculated NPV of JD29.5 million.
The following table compares estimated cost and traffic data from the SAR with actual figures for the Ras
El-Naqab to Wadi Yutun Road.
Capital Costs                                   Traffic
(US$ million)    SAR /a          Actual        Growth           SAR            Actual
1993           3.84
1994          11.52
1995          15.36           1.60           1995           3,058          2,688
1996           7.68           5.70           1996           3,302          3,213
1997                          8.50           1997           3,567          3,840
1998                          15.20          1998           3,852          4,590
1999                          19.70          1999           4,160          5,487
2000                          0.80           2000           4,493          6,558
Total:    38.40          51.50
/a Excludes physical and price contingencies.
- 26 -



Road Rehabilitation Program
Sweileb to Salt Road.     IRR at SAR:  57.0%          NPV at SAR:  JD2.3 million
IRR at ILI:   64.8%        NPV at ILL:   JD3.4 million
While capital costs were estimated at JD470,000 in the SAR, actual costs were about 6% lower at
JD439,870. It was expected that works on the road would be completed during the project's first two
years, and this was the case. Traffic forecasts in the SAR for 1995 were less than actual 1995 traffic
counts by about 15%. In 2000, actual traffic counts were about 50% higher than estimates. The higher
than anticipated traffic volumes resulted in greater than expected savings in VOCs. As such, the
recalculated IRR and NPV were higher than expected.
Sweileh to Airport Road.   IRR at SAR:  33.1%         NPV at SAR: JD12.6 million
IRR at ILI:   104.4%       NPV at ILI:  JD54.8 million
Although works on this road were undertaken during the second and third year of the project, rather than
the first two as envisaged, overall capital costs ended up being some 22% less than anticipated. This is
because a less costly overlay was applied to the road, rather than reconstruction as planned. Actual traffic
during 1995 was underestimnated in the SAR by about 6%, while actual traffic figures in 2000 were 64%
higher than those found in the SAR. The higher traffic counts contributed to a substantial increase in VOC
savings, and when combined with the significant decrease in capital costs, resulted in a considerably higher
IRR and NPV than anticipated.
Azraq to Umari Road        IRR at SAR:  37.4%         NPV at SAR: JD10.7 million
IRR at ELI:   35.0%        NPV at ILI:  JD10.7 million
Actual returns on this road were about as expected. Due to the trade restrictions imposed on Iraq, fewer
vehicles used this road. At the time of appraisal (March 1992), total vehicle kilometers to Iraq were higher
than actual vehicle kilometers in both 1995 and 2000. As such, the actual total number of vehicles utilizing
this road per day in 1995 was around a third less than what was forecast in the SAR, while SAR estimates
for 2000 were about half actual counts. In addition, rehabilitation costs were about 13% higher than
estimated, and took four years to complete, rather than two as planned. However, trucks account for 85
percent of traffic utilizing this road, and VOC savings for trucks were high (this assumes that prior to
rehabilitation, the road had an HIU of 5, and that after rehabilitation the IRI dropped to 2). The increased
savings in VOCs are prinarily due to the higher costs associated with operating modem commercial trucks.
Therefore, the combined effects of lower than expected traffic and higher capital costs were offset by the
substantial savings in VOCs for trucks.
Overall returns for the project exceeded estimates in the SAR by about twice, with a recalculated IRR of
73.7%, versus an estimate of 36.0%, and an NPV of JD68.9 million, compared to an estimate of JD25.6
million.
The following table compares estimated cost and traffic data from the SAR with actual figures for each of
the roads in the rehabilitation program.
-27-



Sweileh - Salt Road    Sweileh - Airoil Road      Azraa - Umari Road
SAR        Actual        SAR         Actual        SAR         Actual
Capital Costs (JDs)
1994            235,000      396,437    2,964,000            0    2,075,000     336,824
1995            235,000       43,433    2,964,000     2,227,393    2,075,000    281,748
1996                                                  2,394,534                3,720,746
1997                                                                            367,157
Totals:     470,000     439,870    5,928,000     4,621,927    4,150,000    4,706,475
VOCs (JD/km)         w/o Project   w Proiect    w/o Project    w Project    w/o Project   w Project
Passenger Cars       0.090        0.083       0.090        0.083        0.090        0.083
Pick-up Trucks       0.143       0.129        0.143        0.129        0.143        0.129
Buses                0.583        0.558       0.583        0.558        0.583        0.558
Heavy Trucks         0.764        0.662       0.764        0.662        0.764        0.662
Traffic in 1995
Passenger Cars          10,123      10,820        7,817        6,375        1,645         300
Pick-up Trucks           2,549       4,512        2,335        4,369          411         293
Buses                    1,649       1,961        1,356        1,318        1,007          54
Heavy Trucks              743          173        2,680        2,942        2,024         702
Totals:      15,063      17,466       14,189       15,004        5,087        1,349
Traffic in 2000
Passenger Cars          11,177      15,620        8,631       10,954        1,817         482
Pick-up Trucks           2,814       6,514        2,578        7,462          454         439
Buses                    1,820       2,831        1,497        2,251        1,111          81
Heavy Trucks              820          247        2,959        5,025        2,235        1,015
Totals:      16,631      25,212       15,665       25,692        5,617       2,017
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
No. of Persons and Specialty              Perform Ratin
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1991                     1   Economist
October 1991                  3   Transport Economist, Highway
Engineer, Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1992                    5   Highway Engineer,
Transport Economist, 3
Consultants
April 1993                    1   Highway Engineer
May 1993                      1   Highway Engineer
Supervision
March 1994                    2  Highway Eng., Rail Spec.              HS                HS
July 1994                      1  Highway Engineer                     HS                HS
November 1994                  1  Highway Engineer                     HS                HS
February 1995                 2  Highway Eng., Rail Specialist         HS                HS
November 1995                  2  Highway Engineer, Railway            S                  S
Specialist
March 1996                     1  Highway Engineer                     S                  S
May 1996                       2  Highway Engineer, Advisor            S                  S
September 1996                2  Highway Engineer, Highway             S                 S
Adviser
March 1997                     4  Highway Engineer, Railway            S                  S
Specialist, Transport Economist,
Consultant
June 1997                      4  Transport Specialist, Highway        S                  S
Engineer, Environmental
Specialist, Maintenance Finance
November 1997                  1  Highway Engineer                      S                 S
March 1998                     3  Transport Specialist, Highway        S                  S
Engineer, Railway Specialist
August 1998                    3  Highway Engineer, Transport          S                 S
Economist, Finance Specialist
November 1998                  1  Highway Engineer                      S                 S
July 1999                      1  Highway Engineer                      S                 S
November 1999                  1  Highway Engineer                      S                 S
ICR
June 2000                     2   Highway Engineer                     S                  S
December 2000                 l   Transport Economist                  S                  S
February 2001                 2   Transport Econ., Fin. Analyst        S                  S
- 29 -



(b) Staff
Identification/Preparation            119.2                      314.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                  55.9                       175.4
Supervision                           118.0                      439.0
ICR
Total                                 293.1                      929.0
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
FO Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
G Institutional Development              O H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
L Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
OI Other (Please specify)         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
n Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS--Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            OHS*S OQu OHU
I Supervision                                        *HSOS   Ou  O HU
Ol Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS O u O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  0 u   O HU
O Overall                                            OHS*S  O U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents and informnation pertaining to the Third Transport Project are available:
*  Memorandum of the President
*   Loan Agreement
*   Project Agreement
*   Back-to-Office Reports
*   Project Supervision Reports
*   Various Project Progress Reports
*   Report entitled "Operating Modalities for the Proposed Road Fund in the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan"
*  Report entitled "Road Transport Policy and Institutional Issues Study"
*   Interim Report on "Upgrading of Zarqa - Azraq Road"
*   Three Technical Proposals for Concessioning Aqaba Railway Corporation
*   Aqaba Railway Corporation Study
*   Responses to Questionnaire sent to Project Beneficiaries
*   Survey of Beneficiaries
- 33 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
As part of the Intensive Learning hmplementation Completion Report, two beneficiary surveys were carried out in
January and February 2001. The surveys sought to assess the degree to which the Third Transport Project
achieved its physical and policy objectives, and to better understand the impacts of the project, both positive and
negative, on the implementing agencies involved, as well as on individuals whose overall quality of life may have
been affected by project activities.
The first survey, or "Questionnaire," was targeted at Government agencies that participated in the project. The
second survey, "Project Beneficiaries Survey," focused on users of the roads which were rehabilitated, and bus
services in Amman that were franchised. The results of these surveys are presented below.
JORDAN THIRD TRANSPORT PROJECT
QUESTIONNAIRE
For the ex-post evaluation of the Project by
Government Agencies
and
other Organizations and Individuals affected by the Project
Evaluations provided by:        DAR              Dar Al-Handasah
MOP             Ministry of Planning
MPWH            Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MOT             Ministry of Transport
MOTA            Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
The purpose of this evaluation is to: (i) examine whether the Third Transport Project ("the Project") achieved the physical and
policy objectives defined during project preparation; and (ii) better understand the impacts of the Project (both positive and
negative) on Jordan's Transport Sector Policy and the implementing agencies involved, including the Ministry of Planning
(MOP), Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH), Ministry of Transport (MOT) and Aqaba Railway Corporation
(ARC). In general terms, the evaluation should help to recognize any mistakes made during project preparation or
implementation, and to improve the design and implementation of future projects.
In addition to input from the Govermnent Agencies mentioned above, feedback is kindly requested from: (i) other organizations
or firms which were involved in project implementation (e.g. consultants, universities); (ii) associations of bus and truck
operators, and (iii) local independent experts. Interviewees should only fill in those sections of this questionnaire which are
relevant to his/her field of expertise.
The results of this evaluation will be summarized by the Ministry of Planning and included in the Borrower's Evaluation of the
Project. The Borrower's evaluation will form part of the overall Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the project.
The broad objectives of the Project were to promote an efficient and economically and financially viable transport sector, by:
*       upgrading major foreign trade arteries;
*       preserving past road investments through rehabilitation of key road sections, enforcement of axle load limits,
improvements in road pavement construction, and establishment of dedicated funds for road maintenance activities; and
*       providing Technical Assistance for policy support and institutional development of sector agencies.
The Project consisted of three components, which were:
*       Reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert Highway;
*       Road Rehabilitation Program; and
*       Technical Assistance to resolve key policy and institutional issues in the road transport sector, including bus transport
restructuring in Amman and the privatization of ARC.
- 34 -



Ouestions and Answers
You are kindly requested to provide answers to the questions below, in the form of a sentence, paragraph or table. Please note:
* If you feel that a question does not relate to your Agency or Organization, please indicate as answer "N/A" (not applicable).
* If you feel that the question is related to your Agency or Organization, but that there is not sufficient information to provide a clear
answer, please indicate "insufficient information available".
SECTION 1.          Overall Objectives of the Project.   The 1992 Staff Appraisal Report for the Project stated a number of
overall objectives, which should be achieved through the Project. The questions in this first section relate to the achievements of the
Third Transport Project towards those objectives.
1.1 Did the project upgrade major transportation arteries for foreign trade?
DAR         Yes, as Ras El-Naqab/Aqaba Road is part of a major artery.
MOP:        Yes
MPWH:    Yes, as Ras El-Naqab/Aqaba Road is part of a major artery connecting Jordan with neighboring countries.
MOT:        Yes
1.2 Did the project help to preserve past road investments?
DAR:        N/A
MOP:        Yes
MPWH:    Yes, the project improved existing facilities.
MOT:        Yes
1.3 Did the project develop appropriate policies and institutional reforms in the transport sector?
DAR,        N/A
MOP:        To a great degree.
MPWH:  N/A
MOT:        Yes
1.4 Did the project increase the efficiency of public sector transport activities (bus and rail services)?
DAR:        Yes, as far as Ras El-Naqab/Aqaba Road.
MOP:        Yes, since the private sector is more involved in public transport and also in railway operations.
MPWH:  N/A
MOT:        Yes for bus transport services. Cannot assess efficiency of rail transport before privatization commences.
1.5 Did the project create opportunities for the private sector?
DAR:        N/A
MOP:        Yes
MPWH:  N/A
MOT:        Yes
1.6 Did the project create employment opportunities?
DAP:        N/A
MOP:        Yes, especially with the public transport private operators.
MPWH:  N/A
MOT:        Yes. Privatization of ARC will lead to a reduction in the number of staff.
1.7 Did the project improve trade opportunities?
DAR:        Yes, through facilitating transport to and from the Aqaba Port.
MPWH:    Yes, to some extent.
MOT:        Yes
- 35 -



1.8 Did the project reduce reliance on Government subsidies to finance transport sector activities?
DAR        N/A
MOP:       Yes, especially in public transport and soon in railways.
MPWII:   No
MOT:       Yes
1.9 Did the project improve cost recovery for road maintenance?
DAR        N/A
MPWH:   Yes, since it cut down road maintenance cost.
MOT:       N/A
1.10       Did the project strengthening the coordination between different Ministries/Authorities concerning transport
sector investments and operations?
DAR        N/A
MPWH:   Yes, it strengthened the coordination between MPWH, MOT and MOP.
MOT:       Yes for bus transport services.
Other comments on the Objectives of the Project:
None received.
SECTION 2.         Do you believe that the Project had a positive spillover on the overaUl economy? If yes, please explain.
DAR        Yes, by enhancing trade through Jordan's only port, and to a less degree, by encouraging tourism in the south.
MPWH:   Yes, in the form of VOC reduction and budgetary expenditure on road maintenance, and in the form of financial
retums from tourism, foreign trade and industry.
MOT:       In order to provide a full answer to this question, a more detailed analysis ought to be carried out. The analysis
should include criteria for assessing the impact of this project on the overall economy of the country. However,
in light of new bus transport services, the following can be regarded as positive spillover on the overall economy:
(1) increased private sector investment and participation; (2) reduced reliance on government subsidies; (3)
increased, to some extent, employment opportunities; and (4) upgraded the level of provided services.
SECTION 3.         This section relates to Component 1 - Rehabilitation of the road section Ras El-Napab to Wadi Yutum.
Did the project:
3.1 - reduce travel times between Aqaba and other destinations along the Desert Highway?
DAR        Yes
MOP:       Not much.
MPWH:   Yes, it reduced travel time because of the convenience of the road.
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    Yes
3.2 - decrease the land transport time of goods going to / coming from Aqaba Port?
DAR        Yes
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:    Yes, same as mentioned in 3.1 above.
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    Yes
3.3 - reduce vehicle operating costs on that road section?
DAR        Yes
MOP:       Yes
- 36 -



MPWH:    Yes, due to good rideability.
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    Yes
3.4 - result in the reduction of road transport tariffs to and from Aqaba?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH:   No, since the project implementation was conditional on keeping the axle load to the limit according to the law.
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    No
3.5 - improve Road Safety along the section?
DAR:       Yes
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:    Yes, the road safety had improved, especially in Ras El-Naqab escarpment.
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    Yes
3.6 - improve the quality of life for communities along the section?
DAR        Yes, slightly.
MPWH:   Yes, to some extent.
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    Yes
3.7 Do you still consider the 71 km Ras El Naqab - Wadi Yutum section a bottleneck?
DAR    No
MOP:       No
MPWH:  No
MOT:       N/A
MOTA:    No
Other comments on Component I - Rehabilitation of the road section Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum:
None received.
SECTION 4.         This section relates to Component 2-Road Rehabilitation (others than the section Ras El-Naqab to
Wadi Yutum road). Did the project:
4.1 - reduce the backlog of maintenance activities?
DAR        N/A
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:   Yes, it reduced the bacldog.
4.2 - reduce road roughness along rebabilitated sections?
DAR        N/A
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:    Yes, it improved IRI on these roads.
MOT:       N/A
4.3 - reduce travel times along rehabilitated sections?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH:    Yes, due to the convenience of the roads.
MOT:       N/A
- 37 -



4.4 - result in a reduction of vehicle operating costs (VOC) along rehabilitated sections?
DAIR       N/A
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:   Yes, the VOCs had been reduced.
MOT:       N/A
4.5 - improve Road Safety along rehabilitated sections?
DAR.       N/A
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:   Yes, road safety has been inproved.
MOT:       N/A
4.6 - improve the quality of life for communities along the rehabilitated sections?
DAR.       N/A
MPWH:   Yes, to some extent
Other comments on Component 2 - Road Rehabilitation:
None received.
SECTION 5.         This section relates to the effectiveness of Component 3 - Technical Assistance.
Did the project help to:
5.1 - select and Implement a regulatory regime to address (i) tariff setting for road and rail transport, (ii) overloading of
trucks and penalties, and (ill) licensing and import controls?
DAAR       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       (i) No (ii) No (iii) No
5.2 - devise and implement a strategy for cost recovery from road users to finance road sector activities?
DAR.       N/A
MOP:       The activity started, but not yet implemented.
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       N/A
5.3 - devise and implement a sustainable and non-budgetary mechanism to finance road maintenance activities?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH: N/A
MOT:       N/A
5.4 - strengthen the GOJ's institutional arrangements to carry out its functions in the road sector?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH: N/A
MOT:       Yes
5.5 - implement improved design and construction practices in the road sector?
DAR.       N/A
MPWH: N/A
MOT:       N/A
- 38 -



5.6 - increase the accountability and commercial orientation of public enterprises in the sector, especially ARC?
DARL       N/A
MOP:       Yes, definitely especially for ARC.
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       N/A
5.7 - ensure that axle load limits are more rigorously enforced?
DAIR       N/A
MOP:       Yes, definitely.
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Yes
5.8 Have road transport costs increased as a result of enforcement of axle load limits?
DARL       N/A
MOP:       No
MPWvH:   N/A
MOT:       Yes
5.9 Has competition among transport service providers increased (i) between truckers; (il) between bus operators; and (Qii)
between Road and Rail modes? Did the project have anytbing to do with this?
DAR.       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Partly, yes: (i) No (ii) Yes (iii) N/A.
Other comments on Component 3 - Technical Assistance:
None received.
SECTION 6.         This section relates to impact of the project on the Auaba Railway Corporation (ARC).
Did the project:
6.1 - achieve the privatization of ARC?
DAR        N/A
MOP:       An agreement was initiated - waiting for finalization.
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Not yet.
6.2 - make a substantial contribution towards the privatization of the ARC?
DAR:       N/A
MOP:       Yes
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Yes
6.3 - have any positive (or negative) impact on ARC's productivity? If so, how?
MOT:       The privatization of ARC has not been completed yet As such, it would be difficult to quantify the impact of the
project of ARC productivity.
6.4. How many staff are employed by ARC (i) today, and (ii) how has the number of staff developed since 1992? Did the
project have anything to do with the variation?
MOT:       (i) 686 (ii) The number of ARC staff decreased from (1329) in 1992 to (1134) in 1999. After privatization
process started, the number of employed staff dropped from (1134) to (686). In addition, 500 emnployees will be
employed by the new Railway Company, and the remaining will be transferred to different govermnent agencies.
- 39 -



6.5 How did the cost per ton/km (in US cents) of phosphate develop since 1992 from the three mines to the Port of Aqaba?
Did the project have anything to do with the variation?
DAR.       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:                   .
Hassa Mine               Abiad Mine               Shidiya Mine
Year            1992   |         2000     1992         2000         1992        2000
US cents         15.5    T   16.6         15.5         19.0         N/A          26.0
6.6 In your opinion, has ARC's financial viability irn'proved or worsened? Did the project have anything to do with it?
DARB       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Does not apply since the privatization has not yet started.
6.7 In your opinion, has Ma'an's economy improved of worsened during the project period? Did the project have anything
to do with it?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Sane as 6.6.
Other comments on ARC:
None received.
SECTION 7.         This section relates to project activities directed at the restructuring of Bus Services, and in particular,
the positive and negative impacts of dissolving PTC and increasing private sector participation in the delivery of bus transport
services in Amman.
7.1 Was PTC dissolved? Did the project have anything to do with it?
DARB       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Yes, In the final stages of dissolving PTC.
7.2 Has there been an increase in the number and size of private bus operators since PTC was dissolved? Did the project
have anything to do with it?
DAR:       N/A
MOP:       Yes, the number increased and the studies performed under the project helped in this.
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Yes. Yes, however, a survey ought to be conducted to verify this.
7.3 Has bus ridership (the number of passengers utilizing bus services) in Amman increased since PTC was dissolved? Did
the project have anything to do with it?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH: N/A
MOT:       Yes. Yes. More analysis is required to determine the extent of increase in bus ridership.
7.4 Please describe how the quality and quantity of public passenger transport services in Amman has developed since 1992,
and especally since the dissolution of PTC. Did the project have any impact on this development?
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Both the quantity and the quality of provided public transport services have been on the decline since 1992.
However, in 1999 four route investment packages were introduced to the private sector. A significant number of
routes were franchised. Both the quality and quantity of services improved significantly. MOT has developed a
- 40 -



number of monitoring forms aimed at monitoring bus services provided. However, a passenger survey should be
conducted to determine the passengers' degree of satisfaction and whether the improvements have anything to do
with the liquidation of PTC.
7.5 Has the switch to more privately-operated bus services led to an increase in fares?
DAR:       N/A
MPWH:   N/A
MOT:       Fares increased due to improved level of provided services..
Other comments on Restructuring Bus Services:
None received.
SECTION 8.         This section relates to the performance of the World Bank and its staff involved in the project. Based on
your experience, how would you describe:
8.1 - overall timeliness and effecffveness of the World Bank's support and advice, during (i) preparation, and (ii)
supervision?
No comments were received.
8.2 - input of Bank staff in overall project design?
MPWH:   Good
8.3 - efficiency of World Bank procedures for project preparation and appraisal?
MOP:       Satisfactory
MPWH:   Acceptable
8.4 - period incurred between the end of project preparation and the Approval of the project by the Bank?
MPWH:   It took a long time.
MOT:       N/A
8.5 - technical quality of Bank staff involved in project?
DAR.       Qualified
MOP:       Excellent
MPWH:   Qualified
MOT:       Good
8.6 - personal attitudes of Bank staff involved in project?
DAR:       Respectful
MOP:       Very good
MPWH:   It has some patronizing attitudes in dealing with govemment staff.
MOT:       Good
8.7 - efficiency of World Bank supervision?
DAR:       Efficient
MOP:       Excellent
MPWH:   Efficient
MOT:       N/A
8.8 - intervals between supervision missions?
-41 -



DARB        Reasonable
MOP:       Satisfactory
MPWH:   Within limits
MOT:       N/A
8.9 - World Bank Procurement procedures and requirements?
DAP:       Systematic and reasonable.
MOP:       Satisfactory
MEPWH:   Demanding and too strict, which imposed additional costs.
MOT:       N/A
8.10 - World Bank requirements for financial management and fiduciary safeguards?
DAR:       Reasonable
MPWH:    Demanding
MOT:       N/A
8.11  - Timeliness of World Bank response to (i) non-objection requests, (ii) general inquiries, and (iii) resolution of
problems?
DARB       Prompt enough.
MOP:       Satisfactory in general with little delays.
MPWH:   Efficient
MOT:       (i) Good (ii) Good (iii) Good
Other comments on the Performance of the World Bank:
None received.
SECTION 9.   Please give a short general description of the performance of the Government (separately by implementing
agency).
DAR:       N/A
MPWH:   High coordination between all concerned parties. Efficient follow-up and decisions were made in a short time.
MOT:       In general, it is difficult to comment on the performance of the implementing agency in the absence of
established criteria. A well-structured survey should be used to quantify the performance of the implementing
agency, and to measure the level of cooperation between different implementing agencies and the World Bank.
SECTION 10.        This section relates to the efficiency of project implementation.
10.1       In your opinion, what were the main constraints to more efficient project implementation?
MIPWH:    Necessity to obtain no objection from the World Bank for proposed nomination of consultant's personnel.
MOT:       (i) The frequent change in key personnel whether at the World Bank or the implementing agency. (ii) Lack of
technical support by the World Bank to local staff. (iii) Few visits by the World Bank technical staff to
implementing agency. (iv) Lack of technical workshops throughout the project.
10.2       What suggestions would you make to improve future operations?
MPWH:    Training a suitable number of MPWH employees to deal with conditions and regulations related to the loans of
the World Bank.
MOT:       (i) More frequent visits by the World Bank technical staff. (ii) More technical-oriented workshops at the
beginning, during and at the end of the project. These workshops should be designed in such a way to help the
local staff in implementing and evaluating the outcomes of the project. (iii) More effort by the World Bank to
build and improve the capacity of local staff by providing hands-on training on software application to the
project. (iv) Provide full training on World Bank procurement procedures for the implementing agency, as well
as for junior World bank staff who visit the project.
-42 -



JORDAN THIRD TRANSPORT PROJECT
SURVEY OF BENEFICIARIES
ABSTRACT
The road beneficiaries survey concluded with the following overall conclusions:
Drivers on Desert Road:
*       100 % believe the road improvement has affected them positively, mainly due to:
- safety,
- convenient driving,
- travel time saving, and
- repair cost saving.
*       Negative aspects are attributed, mainly, to
- pedestrians/animals crossing the road, and
- low speed limits in villages.
Residents along Improved Roads:
*       67 % believe the road improvement has affected them positively, mainly to:
- convenient road,
- travel time saving,
- easier transport and
- economic/social development of area.
*       Negative aspects are attributed, mainly, to
- pedestrians safety and
- traffic loud noise nuisance.
*       55 % believe they are safer now.
*       36 % believe the improvement has brought them economical opportunity, mainly through opening shops at roadsides,
and the increase in land price.
X       Regarding safety, most wish to see more pedestrians crossings (U/P or bridges), and more enforcement of speed
limits.
Public Transport Bus Users:
*       84 % believe the public bus transport system is better today than it was 5 years ago, mainly due to
- the increase in buses,
- the reduction in queue congestion, and
- quality of buses.
*       Negative aspects are attributed, mainly, to the drivers themselves:
the high speed of young drivers and the bad treatment of drivers and their assistants.
*       59 % believe the above effects have something to do with the disappearance of PTC.
*       80 % are, in general, satisfied.
INTRODUCTION
The Third Transport Project of Jordan was implemented between the years 1992 and 2000, consisted of the following three
components:
*       Reconstruction of the Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum section of the Desert Highway;
*       Road Rehabilitation Program; and
*       Technical Assistance to resolve key policy and institutional issues in the road transport sector, including bus transport
restructuring in Amman and the privatization of ARC.
The Consultant, Dar Al-Handasah Consultants (Shair & Partners), has been commissioned by the World Bank to conduct a
survey of the Project beneficiaries, to form part of the Implementation Completion Report for the Project.
-43 -



The survey was conducted in accordance with Terms of Reference prepared by the World Bank and delivered to the Consultant
by the Ministry of Planning (Appendix 1).
It covered the following groups of beneficiaries:
Group 1:   Truck drivers who have during the past years frequently used the Desert Highway between Aqaba and Amman,
in particular the section Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum which was improved under the project.
Group 2:    People who have lived for at least the last 10 years in villages or other settlements along the following road
sections:
*   One)   Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum road
*   Two)   Sweileh - Salt road
*   Three) Sweileh - Airport road
*   Four)  Azraq - Umari road.
Group 3:    People who have been regular users of the public bus transport system in Amman over the past 10 years.
METHODOLOGY
The survey was carried out by an experienced staff comprising the following:
*       Survey Leader: A senior engineer with a similar past experience in beneficiary surveys of road projects in Jordan.
*       Survey Teams: Two Teams, each consisting of two, I male & I female, well trained and qualified personnel, who
have carried out similar surveys with the Consultant in the past 2 years.
*       Data Entry Clerk: A computer versant personnel with similar experience.
*       Survey Reporter: A senior engineer with sound experience in preparing reports.
The survey work consisted of the following:
1)      Questionnaire Preparation:
Based on the survey objectives and the key questions outlined in the TORs, the Survey Leader prepared a set of
detailed questions, both in Arabic and English, for each Group defined in the TORs. The questions were phrased in
simple language that can be readily understood by both the interviewers and the interviewees. Questions were then
organized in forms designed to facilitate quick filling in.
2)      Training:
The Survey Leader held a two-day training session at the Consultant's offices in Amman aimed at equipping the
Survey Teams with the following:
*       General orientation with the objectives of the survey.
*       Full familiarization with each question in the questionnaires and the nature of sought answers.
*       Selection of targeted interviewees.
*       Method of approaching interviewees.
*       Interview time control.
*       Method of filling in the fonrs.
The data Entry Clerk was also familiarized with the computer files and trained on data entry.
3)      Field Survey
The field work of the survey took place in the period between the 2nd and I Ith of February, 2001, as follows:
Ras El-Naqab Survey (Groups I & 2-a)
The Survey Leader accompanied the two Survey Teams to the Ras El-Naqab road area where two surveys were
carried out:
*       Group 1: Truck drivers at the Weigh-in-Motion Stations at km 37, covering southbound and northbound traffic. This
survey took 2 days.
-44 -



*       Group 2-a: Villagers living along the road. Interviews took place on the streets and inside their homes. This survey
took another 2 days.
Sweileh Survey (Grous 2-b&c)
After finishing the Ras El-Naqab Survey, the 2 survey teams and the survey leader moved to the Sweileh area to cany
out the following two surveys:
*       Group 2-b: The Sweileh-Salt road survey.
*       Group 2-c: The Sweileh-Airport road survey.
The surveys took I day.
Azra Surve fGrou 2-d)
Upon finishing the Sweileh Survey, the two Survey Teams moved to the Azzaq-Umari road area. The survey took 2
days.
Amman Su
Finally, the Amman bus stop survey was carried out. This survey took 2 days.
4)      Data Entry
Starting the fifth day of field survey, the Data Entry Clerk started inputting the data into the computer files specially
designed for the purpose.
5)      Data Evaluation
This was be carried out by the Survey Leader upon finishing all the surveys.
6)      Report Preparation:
Finally, the report was prepared to reflect the outcome of the survey.
-45 -



SURVEY RESULTS
GROUP 1
Identification:         Truck drivers who have during the past years frequently used the Desert Highway between Aqaba and
Amman, in particular the section Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum which was improved under the projecL
No. of Interviews:      Required by TOR             30
Carried out:                50
Place of Interview:     Along the section Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum
Questions:
*  Name; Age; Occupation; Gender, Education.
* How long have you been using the road section from Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum?
*  How many times have you used this road section during the past I month?
* Do you know that this section was improved during the past 4 years?
*  Has the improvement any effect on you?
*  What type of effect has the improvement on you?
*  What is the most important positive effect on you?
*  Is there anything negative to say about this road section?
*  If there is anything negative to say, what is it?
*  Has the road improvement encouraged you to use this road instead of other roads?
*  Has the road improvement reduced the maintenance cost of your vehicle?
* Has your travel tme been reduced?
*  By how much has your travel time been reduced?
*  Is the road now safer or less safe?
Interviewees Proffle:
Gender                                         | Male                                 100%
.              __________________________   Female                                  0%
Age                                              21-30 years                            12%
31-40                                 46%
41 -50                                26%
i_________________________________            _   =51  -60                              16%
r Average                            41 years
Education                                        Illiterate                            06%
Literate                              22 %
Basic                                 56 %
Secondary                             14%
______________________________    Diploma (2 years)           02 %
Roadusage:                                       01 -05 years                          12%
No. of years driver has used this road section   06 - 10                               28 %
11 - 15                               24%
16-20                                 22%
21 - 25                               10 %
______________________________________         26    -  30                           02    %
>30                                   02%
-46 -



Road Usage:                                      01 - 10 times                          54%
No. of times driver has used this road in the past I  11 - 20                            12%
month
21 - 30                                14%
31 - 40                                08 %
41-50                                  04 %
51 -60                                 08%
Interviewees Feedback
Do you know that this section was improved during                        Yes                          [        100 %
the past
4 years?                                                                  No                                     0 %
Has the improvement any effect on you?                                   Yes                                   100%
No                          [0%
What type of effect has the improvement on you?                         Positive                               10[  %
Negative                                 0%
What is the most important positive effect on you?  Safer driving/less accidents                                78 %
Wider, dual carriageway road                                  64%
More convenient driving                                       42 %
Less traffic jamming                                          24 %
Easier, safer overtaking                                      20%
Less vehicle breakdowns/repair cost                           20 %
Less travel time                                              18 %
Less road roughness                                           10%
Less fuel consumption                                         08%
Appropriate road signs & reflectors                           04 %
Good asphalt mix                                              04%
Is there anything negative to say about this road                        Yes                                    40%
section?
No                                    60 %
If there is anything negative to say, what is it?  Nothing negative                                             60 %
Animals/pedestrians crossing the road                         12 %
Speed limit of 60 km/hr too low                               10%
Deficiency in no. of speed limit signs                        06 %
Long waiting time at W.I.M. station                           06 %
Excessive police checks                                       04%
Steep gradient in Wadi Yutum                                  04 %
Uneven road                                                   04%
Speed reducing humps in Humaimah                              04 %
-47 -



Unappropriated vehicle crossings                              02 %
No cat-eye reflectors on pavement                             02 %
No truck lay-byes                                             02 %
Has this improvement encouraged you to use this road                     Yes                                    82 %
instead
of other roads?                                                          No                                     10 %
Do not know                               08%
Has this improvement reduced the maintenance cost of                     Yes                                    94%
your vehicle?                                                            No                                      0 %
Do not know                              Q06%
Has your travel time been reduced?                                       Yes                                    98 %
No                                    02%
By how much has your travel time been reduced?                          0hour                                   02 %
1/3 hour                                022%
X2 hour                                 02 %
3  hours                                02%
Is the road now safer or less safe?                                      Safer                                100 %
Safer&Less safe                             0 %
Less safe                               0 %
No effect                               0 %
Grout 1: Summarv
50 male truck drivers of an average age of 41 years, most which of have basic education.
88 % have been using the road for more than 5 years, and 60 % for more than 10 years.
All knew the road section was improved.
All said it affects them positively. Most of them attributed the positive effect:
firstly, to the safer and more convenient driving and,
secondly, to the reduction in vehicle breakdown/repair cost and travel time.
40 % thought there are negative aspects, particularly
the pedestrians/animals crossing the road, and
the low 60 km/hr speed limit in populated areas.
82 % said this improvement has encouraged them to use this road instead of other roads,
94 % said this improvement has reduced the maintenance cost of their vehicles,
98 % said this improvement has reduced the travel time, most of which by I hour.
- 48 -



All agreed the road is now safer.
SURVEY RESULTS
GROUP 2-a
Identification:         People who have lived for at least the last 10 years in villages or other settlements along the road section
Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum
No. of Interviews:      Required by TOR              30
Carried out:                50
Place of Interview:     Villages along the section Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum, viz.
1) Rashadiyah
2) Quwairah
3) Humaimnah
4) Dabbet Hanout.
Questions:
*  Name; Age; Occupation; Gender; Education.
*  Where do you live?
  Since when are you living here?
*  Has the improvement of the road been good or bad to you?
*  What has been the most important positive effect of the road improvement?
*  What has been the most important negative effect of the road improvement?
  How could have the negative effect been avoided?
*  Is it more or less safe to live here?
*  In which way does the improved road affect your safety?
*  Has the road brought you more opportunities for economic activity?
  Explain the economic effect of the road on you.
Interviewees Profile:
Gender                                            Male                          |         54%|
Female                                 46%
Age                                               16 - 20 years                           10%
21 - 30                                36%
31 -40                                 32%
41 - 50                                 10%
51 -60                                 08%
61 -70                                 04%
Average: Males                       38 years
Average: Females                     31 years
Average: Overall                     35 years
Education                                         Illiterate                              24 %
Literate                               28 %
Basic                                  16%
T Secondary                              32 %
T Diploma (2 years)                        0%
- 49 -



No. of years living here                         01 - 05 years                           02 %
06 - 10                                16%
11-15                                 32%
16-20                                  12%
21 -25                                 08%
26-30                                  14%
>30                                    16%
Interviewees Feedback
Has the improvement been good or bad to you?                             Good                                   50%
Good & Bad                                12%
Bad                                   36%
Do not know                                2 %
What has been the most important positive effect of  Less travel time                                           46 %
the road improvement?                            Wider, better road (1)                                         24 %
More safety/less accidents                                    22 %
No effect                                                     22 %
Easier transport                                              10 %
Better services                                               06 %
(I) Including also more convenient driving.
What has been the most important negative effect of  Jeopardizing pedestrians safety (1)                        58 %
the road improvement?                            Difficult access bet. village's 2 sides (2)                    38 %
Trucks loud noise nuisance                                    18 %
No effect                                                     18 %
Vehicular accidents at junction (3)                           08 %
No U-turn to access petrol station (4)                        04 %
Expropriating land without compensation (5)                   04 %
Canceling access roads (5)                                    02 %
No parking space (4)                                          02 %
Insufficient traffic signs (6)                                02 %
More air pollution                                            02 %
(1)100 % of the Humaimah village 12 interviewees made this complaint. (2) Involves: Wide road dividing Humaimah; Median
guardrail in Rashadiyah; Cattle crossing from Dabet Hanout. (3) Rum Junction in Rashadiyah. (4) In Rashadiyah village. (5) In
Humaimah village. (6) In Dabet Hanout village.
How could have the negative effect been avoided?  Construct pedestrian crossings (1)                            72 %
Police to more enforce speed limits                           32 %
Nothing (no negatives)                                        18 %
Increase openings / U-turns in median                         14 %
Construct vehicular crossings (2)                             06 %
Construct a fence at both sides                               02 %
Widen service road                                            02 %
Divert trucks away from village                               02%
- 50 -



(1) 100% of Humairmah & Rashidiyeh interviewees; 50% of Dabet Hanout's; 43% of Quwairah's. U/P or bridge. (2) All in
Rashidiyah/Rum junction. U/pass or bridge.
Is it now more or less safe to live here?                                 Safer                                  38 %
Safer & Less safe                             0 %
Less safe                                54%
No effect                                08 %
In which way does the improved road affect your   More risk when crossing the road  (-)                           36 %
safety?
No effect / home far from road                                 20 %
Colliding truck tires fall on houses (-)                       18 %
Less traffic accidents        (+)                              10 %
Easy traffic flow (1)                   (+)                    08%
Area more secure/more policemen (+)                            06 %
Transport close to home       (+)                              02 %
Drunken people near home (2)       (-)                         02 %
(2) In Dabet Hanout.
Has the road brought you more opportunity for                             Yes                                     16 %
econornic activity?                                                        No                                     84 %
Do not know                                 0 %
Explain the economic effect of the road on you.   No effect                                                       80%
Reducing time to reach work   (+)                              14 %
Killing of cattle while crossing road (-)                      06 %
________________________________________   Opened a petrol station  (+)                         02 %
Group 2-a: Summarv
50 residents with an average age of 35 years were interviewed, of which almost half were females. Most have either basic or secondary
education.
82 % have lived there for more than 10 years.
50 % said the road improvement has affected them positively,
36 % thought it has affected them negatively.
Most of them attributed the positive effect:
firstly, to the saving in travel time,
secondly, to the convenient road, safety and easier transport.
Most attributed the negative effect:
firstly, to jeopardizing pedestrians safety and difficult access to other village side and,
secondly, to trucks loud noise nuisance.
Most thought the negative effect could have been avoided by,
firstly, constructing more pedestrians crossings (underpasses/bridges) and,
secondly, enforcing speed limits by more police presence.
Regarding safety,
38 % said they are safer with this road improvement. Most attributed this to the reduced accidents and the easy flow of
traffic.
54 % said they are less safe. Most attributed this:
firstly, to the high risk when crossing the road and,
secondly, to truck tires falling on their houses from accidents.
- 51 -



Regarding economy,
Only 16 % said the road has brought them more economic opportunity. Most of them
attributed the reason to reduced travel time to work.
84 % said it has not.
SURVEY RESULTS
GROUP 2-b
Identification:         People who have lived for at least the last 10 years in villages or other settlements along the road section
Sweileh - Salt
No. of Interviews:      Required by TOR              13
Carried out:                25
Place of Interview:     Villages along the section Sweileh - Salt, viz.
1) Hummar
2) Um El-Neaag
3) Saru
4) Sumeirat
5) Wadi El-Shajarah
6) Kamalieh.
Questions:
v Name; Age; Occupation; Gender; Education.
X Where do you live?
* Since when are you living here?
* Has the improvement of the road been good or bad to you?
* What has been the most important positive effect of the road improvement?
* What has been the most important negative effect of the road improvement?
* How could have the negative effect been avoided?
* Is it more or less safe to live here?
*  In which way does the improved road affect your safety?
* Has the road brought you more opportunities for economic activity?
*  Explain the economic effect of the road on you.
Interviewees Profile:
Gender                                           Male                                    44
Female                                 56 %
Age                                               16 - 20 years                           0 %
21-30                                  16%
31 - 40                                24 %
41 -50                                 36%
51 -60                                 20%
>60                                    04%
Average: Males                      43 years
Average: Females                    43 years
Average: Overall                    43 years
Education                                        Illiterate                               0 %
Literate                               16 %
Basic                                  20 %
- 52 -



=   Secondary                               36 %
Diploma (2 years)                      16 %
BA./B.Sc.                              12%
No. of years living here                         01 - 05 years                            0 %
06 -10                                 12 %
11 -15                                20 %
16 - 20                               32 %
21 -25                                 20%
26 - 30                                08 %
> 30                                   08 %
Interviewees Feedback
Has the improvement been good or bad to you?                             Good                                   56 %
Good & Bad                                04 %
Bad                                   40 %
Do not know                                0 %
What has been the most important positive effect of  Wider, better road (1)                                     68 %
the road improvement?                            Area developed/commercial zoning (2)                           28 %
Less travel time                                              24 %
Area lit by bridge lighting                                   20 %
Easier transport                                              12 %
No effect                                                     08 %
Less traffic jamming                                          04 %/0
More safety/less accidents                                    04 %
(1) Also, more convenient driving. (2) In Kamaliah, Saru & Wadi El-Shajarah.
What has been the most important negative effect of  Vehicles loud noise nuisance                               40 %
the road improvement?                            Difficulty in crossing the road (1)                           36 %
Traffic accidents (2)                                         24 %
Cement factory trucks moving uphill                           24 %
High speed                                                    20 %
No nearby opening in median                                   20 %
Road crossing cattle obstruct traffic                         12 %
More air pollution                                            12 %
Insufficient walkways                                         12 %
Poorly paved/unpaved roads (3)                                12 %
Slippery road under rain                                      08 %
No effect                                                     08 %
Traffic jamming (4)                                           04 %
Trees in median obstruct sight                                04 %
No speed limit signs at roundabout (5)                        04 %
1) Involves also pedestrians crossing over & under the bridge. (2) Includes also accidents in Saru due to petrol station.
(3) Poorly paved in Um El-Neaag / Unpaved in Mahis road. (4) Due to presence of Sweileh courtroom. (5) In Kamnalieh village.
- 53 -



How could have the negative effect been avoided?  Construct pedestrian crossings (1)                          72 %
Enforce speed limits by police & signs                       32 %
Increase openings/U-turns in median (2)                      12 %
Fix traffic lights (3)                                       12 %
Divert trucks to another road                                12 %
Construct/widen walkways                                     08 %
Nothing (no negatives)                                       08 %
Reduce trees in median                                       04%
Vehicles to park transversely not long.                      04 %
(1) U/passes for pedestrians & cattle, and pedestrian bridges, including one near the vehicular bridge.
(2) In Sani, Amman University, and near Smeirat road. (3) Including one under the bridge.
Is it now more or less safe to live here?                               Safer                                  52 %
Less safe                               48 %
No effect                                0 %
In which way does the improved road affect your  More traffic accidents/high speed  (-)                       40 %
safety?
Area more secure              (+)                            36 %
Less traffic accidents        (+)                            12 %
Excellent lighting             (+)                           08 %
More difficult to cross the road (1)  (-)                    08 %
More theft                     (-)                           08 %
No car parking                 (-)                           04 %
Children park at main road     (-)                           04 %
Road humps                    (-)                            04 %
Accidents at bridge roundabout   (-)                         04 %
(1) Including also having to cross over the fence.
Has the road brought you more opportunity for  |                        Yes                                    48 %
economic activity?                                                       No                                    52 %
Do not know                               0 %
Explain the economic effect of the road on you.  No effect                                                     32 %
Opened a shop at roadside     (+)                            20 %
Less travel time               (+)                           08 %
Land price increased           (+)                           08 %
Area commercially zoned        (+)                           08 %
Area not commercially zoned (2)   (-)                        04 %
Workshop closed (1)             (-)                          04%
Road is now touristic          (+)                           04 %
Killing of cattle while crossing road (-)                    04 %
No U-turns                      (+)                          04 %
(I) Blacksmithing (2) In Hummar.
- 54 -



Groun 2-b: Summary
25 residents with an average age of 43 years were interviewed, of which more than half were females. Most have either basic or
secondary education.
88 % have lived there for more than 10 years.
56 % said the road improvement affected them positively,
40 % thought it has affected them negatively.
Most attributed the positive effect:
firstly, to the more convenient road and,
secondly, to the commercial zoning of their area, and the saving in travel time.
Most attributed the negative effect:
firstly, to traffic loud noise nuisance and the difficulty in crossing the road and,
secondly, to traffic accidents, cement trucks moving uphill.
Most thought the negative effect could have been avoided by,
firstly, constructing more pedestrians crossings (underpasses/bridges) and,
secondly, enforcing speed limits by more police presence.
Regarding safety,
52 % said they are safer with this road improvement. Most of them attributed this to:
the public security that prevails in the area.
48 % said they are less safe. Most attributed this to:
the increase in traffic accidents and high speed.
Regarding economy,
48 % said the road has brought them more economic opportunity, and most of them
attributed this to opening shops at roadside.
52 % said the road has not.
SURVEY RESULTS
GROUP 2-c
Identification:         People who have lived for at least the last 10 years in villages or other settlements along the road section
Sweileh - Airport
No. of Interviews:      Required by TOR             13
Carried out:                25
Place of Interview:     Villages along the section Sweileh - Airport, viz.
1) Khilda
2) Rawnaq
3) Jandaweel
4) Bnayyat
5) Hay El-Rahmaniyeh
6) Qastal
7) Um El-Kundum
8) Um El-Idam
Questions:
* Name; Age; Occupation; Gender; Education.
* Where do you live?
* Since when are you living here?
* Has the improvement of the road been good or bad to you?
* What has been the most important positive effect of the road improvement?
* What has been the most important negative effect of the road improvement?
* How could have the negative effect been avoided?
* Is it more or less safe to live here?
- 55 -



* In which way does the improved road affect your safety?
* Has the road brought you more opportunities for economic activity?
* Explain the economic effect of the road on you.
Interviewees Profile:
Gender                                             Male                                    64%
Female                                  36 %
Age                                                16 - 20 years                            12%
21 - 30                                 32 %
31 -40                                  16%
41 -50                                  04%
51 -60                                  28%
> 60                                    08 %
Average: Males                       42 years
Average: Females                     37 years
Average: Overall                     40 years
Education                                          Illiterate                              20 %
Literate                                08 %
Basic                                   20 %
Secondary                               40%
Diploma (2 years)                       04 %
BA./B.Sc.                               08 %
No. of years living here                           01 - 05 years                             0 %
06- 10                                  08 %
11 - 15                                 16 %
16-20                                   20%
21 -25                                  20%
26-30                                   12%
>30                                     24%
Interviewees Feedback
Has the improvement of the road been good or bad to                        Good                                     84 %
you?                                                                                                                     _
Good & Bad                                 12 %
Bad                                     04 %
What has been the most important positive effect of  Easier transport                                               64 %
the road improvement?                              Land price increased (1)                                         20 %
Area activated economically/socially (1)                        16 %
Less travel time                                                12 %
Availability of services                                        04%
No effect                                                       04%
- 56 -



| Wider, better road                               |j04 %
(1) In Qastal & Bnayyat
What has been the most important negative effect of  Jeopardizing pedestrians safety                             60 %
the road improvement?                             High speed                                                      32 %
Insufficient public transport buses                            08 %
Expropriating land without compensation (1)                    08 %
Insufficient traffic signs                                     08 %
No nearby opening in median                                    08 %
No effect                                                      08 %
Difficulty in crossing the road                                04 %
Narrow and unsafe culverts                                     04 %
Distanced from clan/relatives                                  04 %
Removal of olive trees                                         04 %
Insufficient bus stop sheds                                    04 %
Dust from cement laden trucks                                  04%
(1) In Qastal & Hay El-Rahmaniyeh
How could have the negative effect been avoided?  Construct pedestrian crossings (1)                              56 %
Enforce speed limits by police/signs (2)                       52 %
Increase public transport buses                                08 %
__________________ _   Compensate for expropriation                            08%
Nothing (no negatives)                                         08 %
Increase openings/U-turns in median                            04 %
Cover cement laden trucks or divert                            04 %
Cancel open medians                                            04%
Construct bus stop sheds                                       04 %
(1) U/passes or bridges, and (2) humps.
Is it now more or less safe to live here?                                 Safer                                   76%
Safer & Less safe                            04%
Less safe                                20 %
No effect                                 0 %
In which way does the improved road affect your   Accessibility of ambulance/services (+)                         52 %
safety?
Area more secure (1)           (+)                             28 %
More traffic accidents/high speed  (-)                         24 %
More speed limit signs at places  (+)                          04 %
Pupils selling at roadside     (-)                             04 %
(1) Including presence of police patrols.
Has the road brought you more opportunity for                             Yes                                     56 %
economic activity?                                                         No                                     40 %
Do not know                                04 %
- 57 -



Explain the economic effect of the road on you.  No effect                                                    32 %
Land price increased (1)      (+)                            32 %
Quick & easy access to workplace (+)                         12 %
Opened a shop at roadside   (+)                              12 %
Area activated economically  (+)                             08 %
More customers at petrol station  (+)                        04 %
Selling vegetable at roadside  (+                            04 %
Less turnover due to competition  ()04 %
1Orchard expropriated          ()04 %
ILess shop stops due to high speed ()04 %
1) In Bnayyat, Qastal & Hay El-Rahmaniyeh
Group 2-c: Summarv
25 residents with an average age of 42 years were interviewed, one third of which were females. Most have either basic or secondary
education.
92 % have lived there for more than 10 years.
84 % said the road improvement affected them positively,
Only 04 % thought it has affected them negatively.
Most attributed the positive effect:
firstly, to the easier transport and,
secondly, to the land price increase and economic/social activity in the area
Most attributed the negative effect to jeopardizing pedestrians safety and high speed.
Most thought the negative effect could have been avoided by,
firstly, constructing more pedestrians crossings (underpassestbridges) and,
secondly, enforcing speed limits by more police presence, traffic signs and humps.
Regarding safety,
76 % said they are safer with this road improvement. Most attributed this to the accessibility of ambulances and services.
20 % said they are less safe. Most of them attributed this to the increase in traffic accidents and high speed.
Regarding economy,
56 % said the road has brought them more economic opporttmity, and most attributed
this to land price increase.
40 % said it has not.
SURVEY RESULTS
GROUP 2-d
Identification:         People who have lived for at least the last 10 years in villages or other settlements along the road section
Azraq - Umari
No. of Interviews:      Required by TOR             14
Carried out:                25
Place of Interview:     Villages along the section Sweileh - Airport, viz.
1) Azraq and 2) Umari
Questions:              Name; Age; Occupation; Gender; Education.
* Where do you live?
* Since when are you living here?
- 58 -



* Has the improvement of the road been good or bad to you?
What has been the most important positive effect of the road improvement?
* What has been the most important negative effect of the road improvement?
* How could have the negative effect been avoided?
* Is it more or less safe to live here?
In which way does the improved road affect your safety?
Has the road brought you more opportunities for economic activity?
* Explain the economic effect of the road on you.
Interviewees Profile:
Gender                                          |Male                                   52%
Female                                 49%
Age                                               16 - 20 years                           0 %
21 -30                                 20%
31 -40                                 36%
41 - 50                                20%
51 -60                                 12%
>60                                    12%
Average: Males                      41 years
Average: Females                    42 years
Average: Overall                    42 years
Education                                        Illiterate                             36%
Literate                               04 %
Basic                                  08 %
Secondary                              28 %
Diploma (2 years)                      20 %
BA./B.Sc.                              04%
No. of years living here                         01 - 05 years                          04 %
06 - 10                                12 %
11-15                                 20%
16-20                                  16%
21 -25                                 08 %
26-30                                  12%
>30                                    28%
Interviewees Feedback
Has the improvement of the road been good or bad for                     Good                                   96%
you?
Good & Bad                                 0 %
Bad                                   04 %
What has been the most important positive effect of  Wider, dual carriageway road                               40 %
the road improvement?                            Less traffic accidents                                         24 %
Easier transport                                              20 %
- 59 -



Median facilitated road crossing                             12 %
Area aesthetically developed                                 12 %
Area cleaner due to walkway                                  12 %
More employment/investment opportunities.                    08 %
Less travel time                                             08 %
No bus access to town center                                 04%
Excellent lighting                                           04 %
No effect                                                    04%
Median prevented random U-turns                              04 %
What has been the most important negative effect of  Vehicles loud noise nuisance                             28 %
the road improvement?                            Unsafe road crossing                                         24 %
No nearby opernig in median                                  24 %
Poor lighting                                                12 %
High speed                                                    12%
Taffic accidents                                             12 %
No effect                                                    12 %
No bus stop sheds                                            08 %
Poor transportation                                          04 %
Tnicks entering town                                         04%
Difficulty in crossing the road                              04%
Poor stormwater drainage                                     04%
Narrow roads                                                 04 %
Secondary roads unpaved                                      04 %
No traffic lights                                            04 %
Air pollution                                                04 %
How could have the negative effect been avoided?  Construct pedestrian crossings (1)                          24 %
Increase openings/U-turns in median                          24 %
Enforce speed limits by humps/ and traffic signs             20 %
Increase lighting                                            20 %
Pave/upgrade secondary roads                                 12 %
Nothing (no negatives)                                       12 %
Divert trucks                                                08 %
More attention to road condition                             04 %
Widen the road                                               04 %
Raise road level and provide drainage                        04 %
Negatives unavoidable                                        04%
Enforce traffic directions by barrier                        04 %
Construct bus stop sheds                                     04 %
(1) U/passes or bridges.
Is it now more or less safe to live here?                               Safer                                  72 %
Do not know                               16%
Less safe                               12%
- 60 -



No effect                      |L         0 %
In which way does the improved road affect your   Accessibility of ambulance/services (+)                        20 %
safety?
Area more secure (1)           (+)                             16 %
No effect                                                      16%
Denser population             (_)                              12%
More traffic accidents/high speed  (-)                         08 %
Less traffic accidents t                                       08 %
Widerl dual carriageway road                                  048 %
Easier road crossing due to median (+)                         08 %
Area poorly t                  (-)                             04 %
Road more usable by pedestrians                                04 %
To many trucks & drivers around(-)                             04 %
L) Due to increase of police patrols.
Has the road brought you more opportunity for                             Yes                                     44 %
economic activity?                                                         No                                     56 %
Do not know                                 0 %
Explain the economic effect of the road on you.   No effect                                                       48 %
Opened a shop at roadside     (+)                              12 %
More customers                (+)                              08 %
Less customers                (-)                              04 %
More beggars                  (-)                              04 %
More traffic accidents        (+)                              04 %
Land price increased o h  f                                    04 %
More construction around road   (+)                            04 %
6nter-farm roads paved        (+t                              04 %
Easy supply of water to farm 04                                04 tsi
Electricity supply the                                         04 %
More employment oppotttity cv                                  04 %
Road conunercially zoned      (+                               04 %
Group 2-d: Summary
25 residents with an average age of 42 years were interviewed, almost half of which were females. One third are illiterates.
84 % have lived there for more than 10 years.
96 % said the road improvement affected them positively,
Only 04 %       thought it has affected thera  negaiively.
Most attributed the positive effect:
firstly, to the convenient road,
secondly, to the reduced traffic accidents and the easier trasport.
Most attributed the negative effect to:
Traffic loud noise nuisance, unsafe crossing,, and insufficient median openings.
Most thought the negative effect could have been avoided by,
constructing more pedestrian crossings (underpasses/bridges), providing more openings in median, increasing lighting, and
- 61 -



enforcing speed limits by traffic signs and humps.
Regarding safety,
72 % said they are safer with this road improvement. Most of them attributed this to:
the accessibility of ambulances and services, and to the prevailing public security.
12 % said they are less safe. Most of them attributed this to the increase in traffic accidents and high speed.
Regarding economy,
44 % said the road has brought them more economic opportunity, and most attributed this to opening shops at the roadside.
56 % said it has not.
SURVEY RESULTS
GROUP 3
Identification:         People who have been regular users of the public bus transport system in Amman over the past 10
years.
No. of Interviews:      Required by TOR         60 (at 6 different key bus stops)
Carried out:             110 (at 6 different key bus stops)
Place of Interview:     The following bus stops in Amman:
1) Abdali - Wadissir
2) Abdali - Baq'ah
3) Raghadan - King Talal Street
4) Raghadan - Sahab
5) Raghadan - Zarqa
6) Wadissir - Jordan University
Questions:
*  Name; Age; Occupation; Gender; Education.
*  Which bus line are you going to use now?
*  Since when are you using this bus line?
* How many times do you use this bus line in I month?
*  Is the public bus transport systeinin Amman better today than it was 5 years ago?
*  What is better today than 5 years ago?
* What is worse today than 5 years ago?
*  Does this have anything to do with the disappearance of the PTC?
*  On a scale of I-10, where 10 represents the highest and I represents the lowest, what is your degree of satisfaction?
Interviewees Profile:
Gender                                           Male                                    50%
Female                                 50%
Age                                               16 - 20 years                          10%
21 -30                                 47%
31 -40                                 29%
41 -50                                 12%
51 -60                                 02%
>60                                     0%
Average: Males                      30 years
Average: Females                    31 years
Average: Overall                    30 years
-62-



Education                                          Illiterate                              05 %  1
Literate                                05 %
Basic                                   19%
Secondary                               34 %
Diploma (2 years)                       18 %
BAAB.Sc.                                17%
__________________________    Postgraduate                     02 %
No. of years using this bus line?                 01 - 05 years                            12%
06- 10                                  51 %
11-15                                  25%
16 - 20                                 07 %
21 -25                                  02%
26-30                                   02%
> 30                                    01%
No. of times using this bus line in the past 1 month?  01 - 10 times                       35 %
11 -20                                  20%
21 -30                                  35%
31-40                                   01%
41 -50                                  05%
51 -60                                  04%
Interviewees Feedback
Is the public bus transport system in Amman better                          Yes                                     84 %
today than it was 5 years ago?                                              No                                      16%
Do not know                                 0 %
What is better today than 5 years ago?             More buses Less queue congestion                                68 %
Less time                                                       27 %
Nothing better                                                  15 %
Better quality buses                                            12%
More convenience (1)                                            11 %
Availability of buses at night                                  04%
Service covering more areas                                     04%
Order in boarding the bus                                       03 %
Cancellation of the big buses                                   02 %
Paying fare to bus assist. not machine                          02 %
Loading & unloading easily anywhere                             02 %
Using 1 bus instead of 2 (I stage)                              01 %
Less congestion inside bus                                      01 %
Bus stop is nearer                                              01 %
Safer                                                           01 %
- 63 -



I Abiding by the stops                                         01%
(1) Including also no smoking, heating, music.
What is worse today than 5 years ago?            High speed by young bus drivers                              36 %
Queue congestion                                             29 %
Bad treatment of driver & assistant                          18 %
Nothing negative                                              15 %
Bus overload/congestion                                      09 %
Bus not abiding by assigned line                             07 %
No bus stop sheds                                            05 %
Progressive increase of fare                                 05 %
Frequent & haphazard load & unload                           07 %
High stereo noise                                            04 %
Insufficient buses                                           04%
Smoking inside bus                                           03 %
Poor bus condition/no maintenance                            03 %
Inconvenient narrow bus seats                                03 %
No timetable                                                 02 %
Long trip time                                               01 %
Drivers fighting for passengers                              01 %
No heating                                                   01 %
Wrong bus stop location                                      01 %
Does this have anything to do with the disappearance                    Yes                                   59 %
of PTC?
No                                   20%
Do not know                              21%
On a scale of 1-10, where 10 represents the highest                       1                                  04.6 %
and I represents the lowest, what is your degree                         2                                   07.3 %
of satisfaction?                                                         3                                   03.6 %
4                                  04.6%
5                                  21.8 %
6                                  10.0%
7                                  22.7%
8                                  21.8 %
9                                  01.8 %
10                                 01.8%
Groun 3: Summarv
110 bus users were interviewed at 6 different bus stops, with an average age of 30 years, half of which were females. Most have
secondary or higher education.
88 % have been using the bus line for more than 10 years.
84 % said the public bus transport system is better today than it was 5 years ago.
16 % thought it is worse.
- 64 -



Most attributed the improvement:
firstly, to the increase in buses and the reduction in queue congestion and,
secondly, to the time saving and the better quality of buses.
Most attributed the negative effect to:
firstly, the high speed by young bus drivers and,
secondly, to the queue congestion and the driver's & his assistant's bad treatment.
59 % said the above effect has to do with the disappearance of the PTC.
20 % said it has nothing to do.
80 % gave a degree of satisfaction more than 5/10.
48 % gave a degree of satisfaction more than 7/10.
- 65 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Introduction
As part of the Intensive Leaming Implementation Completion Report, a Stakeholder Workshop was held at
the Ministry of Planning in Amman, Jordan on February 28, 2001 to discuss the results of the project,
including lessons learned. The workshop was attended by counterparts from each of the executing
agencies, representatives from Governmental entities affected by the project, cofmanciers, private bus
operators, trucking firms, and consultants. This annex summarizes the main results of the workshop.
Obiectives
The objectives of the Stakeholder Workshop were to provide a forum in which to: (a) discuss the Project's
design and outcomes, as well as those factors that may have affected implementation; (b) examine the
performance of the World Bank and Borrower; and (c) consider lessons learned. The structure of the
workshop consisted of five modules. Module I included opening comments and a brief overview of project
objectives. Modules II and IH were presentations on each of the project's components, while Module 1V
presented the results of the Survey of Beneficiaries. After each presentation, there was a period for
questions and discussion. Module V sought to extract some of the more significant lessons leamed from
the project.
The workshop was viewed as an opportunity for all stakeholders to exchange their views and perspectives,
both positive and negative, about the project. As such, an open format was encouraged.
Agenda
MODULE I                   Welcorning Address and Introductory Remarks
9:00 am. to 9:15 a.m.      Dr. Abdelrazaq Bani Hani, Secretary General, MOP
Yousef Batshon, Director of Infrastructure, MOP
9:15 am. to 9:30 a.m.      Overview of Project Objectives
Jim Reichert, Financial Analyst, World Bank
MODULE II                  Reconstruction of Ras El-Naqab and Road Rehabilitation Program
9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.    Sami Halasah, Director of Road Studies, MPWH
MODULE m                   Technical Assistance - ARC. PTC. PTA
10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.   Dr. Mohammad Harned, Advisor to the Minister, MOT
MODULE IV                  Results of Beneficiary Survey
11:30 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.   Suheil Madana and Abdullah Muqattash, Engineers, Dar Al-Handasah
MODULE V                   Lessons Learned
12:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.    Open discussion
- 66 -



Results of the Workshop
The main impacts of the project as perceived by stakeholders are sununarized below.
Reconstruction of Ras El-Naqab to Wadi Yutum
*   in spite of major design changes, the need to move utilities and preserve archaeological sites, and a long
mobilization period by the contractor, the road's reconstruction was completed satisfactorily, and this
section of the Desert Highway is no longer considered a "bottleneck ."
*   while the roughness of the road was much improved, the grade was not (in the escarpment section), and
this should have been more thoroughly examined during project preparation.
*   the process whereby a seal coat was applied over the wearing coarse on four trial sections of the road is
considered new technology for Jordan, and must be closely monitored; depending on the results, this
technology might be utilized in future road projects.
*   the enforcement of axle load limits has gone a long way to preserving the road network, but there is
concern that limits are not being enforced within the country, and that the overloading fines imposed
are not proportional to the damage inflicted, especially for trucks transporting aggregates, asphalt and
sand within the country.
*   truckers utilizing the reconstructed road overwhelmingly felt that the road was much safer and more
convenient, their vehicle maintenance and operating costs had been reduced, and long-haul travel times
had been reduced by at least one hour.
a   the Survey of Beneficiaries revealed that the majority of interviewees living along the road felt that the
improvements have jeopardized their safety due to vehicles traveling at faster speeds; they also
complained of increased noise from trucks.
Road Rehabilitation Program
* all agreed that a more reliable source of funding for road maintenance activities was necessary, and
that if a Road Maintenance Fund was not going to be established, that other methods, such as tolling,
should be considered.
*   a majority of residents living along sections of road rehabilitated under the project indicated that the
most positive effects had been a more convenient (smoother) road, savings in travel time, and, in the
case of Azraq to Umari, quicker access to medical services (ambulances) and facilities (hospitals).
*   the biggest drawbacks to the project include, difficulty in crossing the road (on foot), an increase in
noise, and insufficient median openings.
*   most felt that the negative effects could have be avoided by constructing more pedestrian crossings,
both underpasses and bridges, and better enforcement of speed limits.
Technical Assistance
*   the project's largest failures were associated with the Technical Assistance component including, the
stalled effort to establish a Road Maintenance Fund, lack of an appropriate entity to regulate passenger
services in Amman, and inability to concession railway operations.
*   some felt that this was the result of the project attempting to address too many difficult policy issues,
however, it was pointed out that the enforcement of lower axle load limits, a Condition of
Effectiveness, forced a good outcome.
*   while most felt that private operators were providing better bus services in Greater Amman, there was
consensus that an authority to regulate bus operations and enforce franchise conditions was urgently
needed to preserve the gains.
*   trhe Survey of Beneficiaries confirmed that users believe the public bus transport system in Amman is
better today than it was five years ago, and cited the introduction of more and newer buses, more
predictable schedules (less waiting), and potential for new technology (smart cards) as examples.
- 67 -



* given the delays in finalizing an agreement to concession railway operations and the recent cancellation
of the HAJ Project, some questioned whether the political will to proceed was present, or if it was even
prudent, given the social implications for the city of Ma'an
* there was criticism that only a select few counterpart professionals were involved in the project's
substantive issues, and that knowledge-sharing was limited.
Areas for improvement and key lessons leamed are outlined below.
* although difficult, project's should not shy away from tackling difficult institutional and policy issues.
* in road projects, more attention should be given to road safety (adequate lighting/signage, enforcement
of speed limits) and social issues (adequate crossings in populated areas).
* an independent and fully staffed regulatory entity should have been established prior to franchising bus
routes.
*  to properly judge the quality of private bus services, criteria to rate and evaluate performance must be
established.
* realism, and an appreciation of the political difficulties of privatizing state-owned entities should be
recognized when designing projects.
* more opportunities for training should be made available during all phases of the project and to all
levels of local counterpart staff.
e future projects should include regular interaction with beneficiary communities.
List of Workshop Participants
I.    Osama Shalari                    Aqaba Railway Corporation
2.    Yahia Jdaitawi                    BAU
3.    Abdallah Muqattash                Dar Al-Handasah
4.    Suheil Madana                     Dar Al-Handasah
5.    Ghassan Haddad                    Dar Al-Handasah
6.    Muhammed Al-Basheer               Dar Al-Handasah
7.    Mario Rizos                       European Union
8.    Thomas Couteaudier                European Union
9.    Hassan Al Rafie                   Executive Privatization Council
10.   AshrafM. Tarawneh                 Governnent Tenders Directorate
11.   Kasim Ibrahim                     IJLTC
12.   Abdelrazzq Musleh                 JETT
13.   Hassan Qusbeish                   Josyco
14.   Mohammed Fares Issa               Josyco
15.   Noah Manasrah                     Kawasmi
16.   Abdelrazaq Bani Hani              Ministry of Planning
17.   Yousef Batshon                    Ministry of Planning
18.   Ruba Abu Ghosh                    Ministry of Planning
19.   Ahmed Sammour                     Ministry of Planning
20.   Abdelinajid Kabariti              Ministry of Public Works and Housing
21.   Mohammed Ramthani                  Ministry of Public Works and Housing
22.   Moen Jaradat                      Ministry of Public Works and Housing
23.   Sami Halasah                      Ministry of Public Works and Housing
24.   Majed Al-Shari                    Ministry of Public Works and Housing
25.   Joeseph Kefaya                    Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
26.   Rafique Mansour                    Ministry of Transport
- 68 -



27.   Laith Daraneh                      Ministry of Transport
28.   Zuhair Hattar                      Ministry of Transport
29.   Mohamed Hamed                      Ministry of Transport
30.   Abdalla Sanna                      Public Transport Corporation
31.   Raed Azab                          Public Transport Corporation
32.   Hisham Lasfevr                    Unified Company
33.   Andreas Schliessler                World Bank
34.   Jim Reichert                      World Bank
- 69 -






IBRD 23517R1
350                                                    370                         330                         39
'Cff/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oA
330                                                                                                                                        330-
Lake
Tiberias
io (> tA , ./ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32-
SDead                     ARA M M A N
F * \  | Disud nUmar; 9 -
f- + /  / >.o1rodwtTmm     * \To A) Hdiowh
|             <f ~~~~~~~G,hor laditliheh)  
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Abyo*\
310                                                                                                                                        31
j QafibhEI$s  r                           .s                         ~~~~JORDAN
THIRD TRANSPORT
washorjdn [  X                                      X              ~~~PROJECT
*/ |  s addiAy' A   N                                                          >
ROADS FINANCED UNDER PROJECT
I  f   E                                       *                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING FEATURES:
~ 30.     !/         ORas el Naqb                  El Shaiya                                          PRIMARY RCOADS                       30x
//    //   }                 . _ . ~~~~~~~~~ *                 - ~~   SECONDARY ROADS
*- / WdYt/EXISTING RAILROADS
,Y ztn/el Ghul                                                  AQABA RAILWAY CORPORATION
AqX7                                              /                                          *      RAILWAY STATIONS
f/,ldi? 2. \                       /                                                       MAIRPORTS
oH-     *           Mud                                                                 o     SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
H|                                                                                   --- 0AtBi  TRANS ARABIAN PIPELINE
g  i   OIL REFINERY
J  o 5 0   0ohPOTASH REFINERY                294
0  2,5    510    7,5     1 00 Kilomnetws
_______I ____I ____I___I_______                                                         POTASH DEPOSIT AREA
0          25          50         75 Miles                                       5     PHOSPHATE MINES
This mop pnodcrd    mo p hp Desin Unit of ho Wodd Ban.
The boondarie,.roln,o  niwohnotrndnoondyorwinbxforton                            *       CEMENT PLANT
sn on tis mop do not imp6y, onl Ab pod of Thn World Bonk
Gnop, idgnmenthonA.legal stOhs of any tint, or ony                                      RIVERS
endorsmennt or acceptamh of ch bounrdari.
350                          360                           370                           3180                          3       M90
MARCH 2001



