 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14848

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 10/19/2015

              Country: China
            Project ID: P084437                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Rural Health Project         Project Costs (US$M):                    60.0                 58.68

  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     50.0                 49.97
      Sector Board:       Health, Nutrition and      Cofinancing (US$M):
                          Population
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                              06/24/2008
                                                            Closing Date:            12/31/2013         12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Compulsory health finance (36%); Central government administration (32%); Health (27%);
                          Sub-national government administration (5%)
         Theme(s):        Health system performance (67%); Rural services and infrastructure (33%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p. 3) states that the Project Development Objective (PDO) was
    “increased and more equitable access to quality health services, improved financial protection, and better
    management of public health threats in pilot provinces and counties, with lessons to support reforms in
    non-project areas.”

    According to the Loan Agreement of October 8, 2008 (p. 5), the PDO was “to assist the Borrower in providing
    increased and more equitable access to quality health services and in improving financial protection against
    escalating health care costs, both for rural households, and in improving management of public health threats.”

    This Review will use the PDO in the Loan Agreement as basis for the validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project consisted of two components:

    Component 1: Health reform innovations supported via block grants (appraisal estimate US $47.34 million,
    actual US$46.59 million, 98.41% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance block grants to forty
    counties to implement government health reform policies. Three reform areas were identified:

    1) Improving rural health financing to: i) Develop further information flows and integrate information systems,
    strengthening fund management and control capability; ii) Introduce international experience on feasible
    approaches to cost control and pilot alternative provider payment mechanisms; iii) Improve the link between the
    New Cooperative Medical Scheme (NCMS) and Medical Assistance Scheme (MA) programs; iv) Improve
   financial protection while improving access to affordable services for currently excluded or marginalized groups;
   v) Strengthen mechanisms for supervision and broader accountability to the community; and vi) Provide training
   and other forms of capacity building beyond routine training activities supported by national programs.

   2) Improving quality, efficiency and cost control in service delivery by providing technical assistance to: i)
   Address existing weaknesses in provider capacity to define performance standards, monitor costs and
   performance, and enforce contractual obligations of hospitals and other providers; (ii) Develop and implement an
   integrated primary care model; (iii) Support the development and implementation of new or revised regulations,
   and of systems for regulatory monitoring and enforcement; and (d) Support the upgrade of material conditions
   and capacity of rural health providers through limited training and civil works to ensure adequate skills and
   capabilities in the health system to meet higher quality standards and requirements.

   3) Strengthening the financing and organization of core public health functions through the following activities: i)
   Support the development of a coordinated public health strategy at the country level, ii) Test different approaches
   for improving the quality, efficiency and equity of existing services (such as maternal and child health and the
   expanded program for immunization) and pilot new interventions to address emerging health challenges (such as
   non-communicable diseases and associated behavioral risk factors).

   Component 2: Project coordination , policy development and lesson learning (appraisal estimate US $9.63
   million, actual US$11.96 million, 124.21% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance technical
   assistance to guide project implementation and identify replicable models for rural health reform. Activities were
   to include the establishment of a national leadership committee to provide direction to the project, evaluation of
   policy impact, and coordination across the central level. Also, multi-sectoral leadership groups were to be set up
   at each level to provide policy support for project implementation and assessment of the implications of project
   achievements for dissemination and new policy development. Project management offices were also to be
   established at each level, and expert panels at national and provincial levels were to provide technical leadership
   for project components and on cross-cutting issues.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$60 million. Actual cost was US$58.68 million, 97.80% of the
   appraisal estimate.

   Financing: The project was financed by a US$50 million IBRD loan of which US$49.97 million was disbursed,
   and a US$10 million grant by the British Department for International Development (DFID) of which US$8.71
   million was disbursed. The ICR (p. 8) states that exchange rate fluctuations led to a reduction in funding.

   Borrower Contribution : There were no planned or actual contributions by the borrower.

   Dates: The project was restructured three times:

        On March 31, 2011, loan proceeds were reallocated to move funds from the unallocated category to
         distribution among performers who had been deemed to have made strong progress with piloting activities.
        On August 1, 2012, loan proceeds were reallocated in order to provide funds to designated
         provinces/municipalities in recognition of strong performance under the project. Also, expenditure categories
         A (block grants) and B (goods, consultant services, training, program support) were merged into a single
         category C to simplify disbursement management.
        On April 30, 2013 the following changes were made: i) the project closing date was extended from
         December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 to allow sufficient time for the latest pilots to be completed,
         evaluation of new pilots, and rollout to non-pilot areas; ii) the reference to the National Validation Panel was
         removed in the Loan Agreement and replaced by the National Expert Panel (NEP), as a National Validation
         Panel was never established and its function was performed instead by the NEP; and iii) one output indicator
         was revised to better assess implementation progress.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High: At the time of project appraisal in 2008, China’s health sector faced several challenges. Inequality in health
   status across the population was persistent. For example, the maternal mortality ratio in the poorest quintile of
   the population was three times higher than in the richest quintile. Out-of-pocket costs had been increasing,
   making health care less affordable and resulting in more people falling into poverty due to high health care costs.
   The health care system had been suffering from poor quality and inefficiencies. Also, the public health function
   was poorly executed.

   The project’s objectives were in line with the government’s 2002 paper “Decision on Further Strengthening Rural
   Health Work,” which built the foundation for a new health financing system in rural areas and led to the
   establishment of the New Cooperative Medical Scheme (NCMS) and Medical Assistance Scheme (MA). The
   project was also in line with China’s co-terminus 11th five year plan, which aimed to promote health sector
   development, especially in rural areas. Also, the objectives are in line with China’s current 12th five-year plan
   (2011-2015), which continues to focus on improving quality of growth and addressing economic and social
   imbalances such as financial protection from health shocks and access to quality health care.

   Finally, the objectives were in line with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy for China (2006-2010), which
   also aimed to strengthen social insurance, including rural health insurance, and increase the appropriate use of
   health care services, particularly access to health care services by the rural poor. The objectives are also in line
   with the current Country Partnership Strategy (FY 2013-2016), which aims to foster more inclusive and balanced
   rural development.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: The project’s reform areas were appropriate for addressing the health challenges China was facing.
   The statement of objectives was clear, and the relationship between planned activities and intended outcomes
   was logical and properly laid out. The project included activities that aimed to improve financial protection, pilot
   alternative provider payment mechanisms, develop an integrated primary care model, provide training to build
   capacity among rural health care providers to achieve higher quality standards, and improve the execution of the
   public health function, all of which would be expected to contribute to achieving the project’s objectives.

   The project design was innovative and provided block grants to project counties while the central and provincial
   government, instead of the county governments, were responsible for the repayment, reducing the financial
   burden at the county level. An incentive and exit mechanism to manage performance and foster competition was
   introduced. Also, the project used a bottom up approach and gave counties the responsibility to design their
   project activities. The project did not require counterpart funding and allowed for a fast use of project funding. The
   project design also included a single disbursement method to give implementers more flexibility and an
   innovative incentive and exit system that rewarded best performers, fostered competition, and let poor performers
   leave the project. However, the design was also very complex and included health financing, service delivery and
   public health function reforms in 40 counties in eight provinces.

   Relevant risk factors were identified during project preparation. Those risk factors included a weak financial
   management capacity at the county level, insufficient commitment to modern M&E methodology, unfamiliarity of
   national and provincial expert panels with modern approaches to fostering innovations effectively, and successful
   innovations are not scaled up as part of national policy. The project design included relevant mitigation efforts
   such as providing guidance in financial management, building relationships with entities in the Ministry of Health
   and Ministry of Finance to reinforce the importance of sound M&E work, ensuring that innovations were identified,
   shared and provided with adequate funding, and using international technical assistance while building
   partnerships with local expert panels.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):


   Assist the Borrower in providing increased and more equitable access to quality health services and in
   improving financial protection against escalating health care costs , both for rural households , and in improving
   management of public health threats :

   This project did not have specific output targets because the financing mechanism was block grants, which
   meant that the provinces receiving the grants were determining their own activities.

   Assist the Borrower in providing increased access to health services for rural households : Substantial

   Outputs:

        1,109 village clinics were constructed, 599 village clinics were expanded, 582 village clinics were renovated,
        and 62,880 items of clinical and office equipment were purchased.

Outcomes:
  The percentage of women between age 15 and 49 who underwent a gynecological check-up in the last year
    increased from 44.1% (with disparities among provinces) in 2008 to 66.3% in 2014, surpassing the target of
    54.1%.
  The percentage of women who obtained prenatal care increased to 98.9%, a five percentage point increase
    since 2008. The postpartum rate increased by 34.9 percentage points between 2008 and 2013, to 84.2%.
    These indicators did not have targets.
  The percentage of people aged 65 and above who received a physical examination increased from 15% in
    2008 to 80.5% in 2013. This indicator did not have a target.
  The share of the population living within 15 minutes of the nearest health facility increased by 9.4
    percentage points on average. This indicator did not have a baseline or target.


Assist the Borrower in providing more equitable access to health services for rural households : Substantial

Outputs:

       Financing and service models, intended to increase the incentive for health workers to reach out to remote
        populations and other vulnerable groups in the community, were introduced as planned.
       Linkages between the New Cooperative Medical Scheme and the Medical Assistance (MA) system were
        established in all project counties. Policies were established to ensure that the poor benefit from the two
        systems, as planned.

Outcomes:

       The number of counties with a ratio lower than one of outpatient visit rate of the bottom 20% in income
        versus the top 40% decreased from 18 counties in 2008 to 6 counties in 2014, a 67% reduction, achieving
        the target.
       The number of poor people who received Medical Assistance (MA) under the project increased from 2,148 in
        2008 to 3,053 in 2013. This represented only slightly more than three percent of the population in project
        areas, which the ICR (p. 36) acknowledges as a low rate of coverage. This indicator did not have a target.
       The ratio of hospitalization rate of MA beneficiaries versus non-MA beneficiaries, to track disparities in use of
        inpatient services between the poor (as proxied by MA membership) and non-poor, increased from an
        average rate of 1.5 in 2008 to an average ratio of 2.1 in 2014, achieving the target. However, the ICR (p. iv)
        states that the sample size for MA beneficiaries who were hospitalized was very small, and therefore the
        data for this indicator are not robust.


Assist the Borrower in providing increased and more equitable access to quality health services for rural
households: Substantial

Outputs:

       Quality-Based Performance Management Mechanism was formulated and a case study published.
       A service-oriented and quality-based long-term performance management mechanism was formulated.
       Quality measures for institutions and staff were introduced.
       Basic equipment and civil works for village clinics to improve hardware were procured.
       Training of hospital managers and standardization of hospital management.

Outcomes:

       In 2008, in 28 counties more than 90% of women and in 12 counties fewer than 90% of women had access
        to a female qualified health worker. In 2014, 95.9% of women in 36 counties had access to a female
        qualified health worker, surpassing the target of 32 counties with more than 90% of women having access to
        a female qualified health worker.
       35 out of a total of 40 project counties (87.5%) launched “healthy village,” 277 villages met the standard of
        “healthy village,” and all project provinces have “healthy villages” that met the standards. Therefore, the
        target of at least 50% of the project counties having initiated the implementation of healthy village, and at
        least one village in each province meeting healthy village standards, was surpassed. The ICR (p. viii) states
     that “according to WHO, a village or rural community can be considered healthy when rates of infectious
     diseases are low and prevention, control and management of people with non-communicable diseases is
     available, and when community members have access to basic services and healthcare. [The concept also]
     encompasses health beyond healthcare by providing a clean environment, potable water, good sanitation
     and open areas for safe and pleasurable recreation and physical activity.” However, the ICR does not
     describe how these healthy villages were assessed.
    The share of patients who should have been hospitalized according to medical advice, but were not,
     decreased from 30.6% in 2008 to 13.5% in 2013. This indicator did not have a target.
    The overall satisfaction rate with rural health services among men increased from 63.8% in 2008 to 85.4% in
     2014, surpassing the target by 17.6 percentage points.
    The overall satisfaction rate with rural health services among women increased from 66.6% in 2008 to
     85.5% in 2014, surpassing the target by 14.9 percentage points.
    In 2008, 18.9% of outpatients at township centers and 19.8% of outpatients at village clinics received two or
     more antibiotics, decreasing to 4.8% of patients at township health centers and 6.5% of patients at village
     clinics in 2014, surpassing the target of a four percentage point reduction.
    The percentage of individuals over 35 with hypertension who have been followed up after three months
     increased from 66.2% in 2008 to 89.4% in 2014. This indicator did not have a target.

Assist the Borrower in improving financial protection against escalating health care costs : Substantial

Outputs:

    Linkages between the NCMS and MA systems were established in all project counties, and policies were
     developed to ensure the poor benefit from the two systems.
    A one-stop connection between county-level hospitals and township/village clinics was established under the
     MA network, covering 170 county-level hospitals and 1,172 township/village clinics in project areas.
    29 counties in project areas strengthened the information technology systems of the NCMS. Electronic cards
     were used for medical treatment and care at the county, township, village levels, such as the “Health Service
     All-in-One-Card."
    Trainings, workshops, and seminars were held at each level focusing on NCMS and MA management.

Outcomes:

    The percentage of patients who reported financial constraints as the main reason for not obtaining care
     decreased from 76.9% in 2008 to 48.8% in 2013. This indicator did not have a target.
    Out-of-pocket payments for inpatient costs as a proportion of the surveyed population’s annual per capita
     income dropped markedly from 57.7% to 28.1% between 2008 and 2013. This indicator did not have a
     target.
    Coverage of NCMS health insurance for the rural population has increased from 93.9% in 2008 to 97.3% in
     2013 in all project provinces, surpassing the target of 90%.
    The percentage of households with annual health expenditures in excess of 20% of total income decreased
     from 19.2% in 2008 to 13.2% in 2014, surpassing the target of 14.2%.
    The share of direct health care payments decreased significantly for farmers in the NCMS from 74.7% in
     2008 to 48.4% in 2013. This indicator did not have a target.
    The percentage of total annual (individual) inpatient expenses financed through out-of-pocket payments for
     New Cooperative Medical Scheme (NCMS) members decreased from 74.7% in 2008 to 48.4% in 2014,
     surpassing the target of 67.7%.
    The percentage of total annual (individual) inpatient expenses financed through out-of-pocket payments for
     Medical Assistance (MA) Scheme beneficiaries covered by the NCMS decreased from 72.3% in 2008 to
     35.6% in 2014, surpassing the target of 65.3%
    The NCMS fund has become the predominant source for NCMS expenditure. The total annual NCMS
     expenditure as percentage of total annual NCMS funds increased from 72.7% in 2008 to 98.6% in 2014,
     surpassing the target of 85%.
    Annual per capita government expenditures on county-level public health institutions and programs
     increased from 14.6 Yuan in 2008 to 56 Yuan in 2014, surpassing the target of 20.9 Yuan.


Assist the Borrower in improving management of public health threats : Substantial

Outputs:

    A cross-component multi-department management platform and service mode for non-communicable
     diseases (NCDs) was established.
        Direct reporting IT systems for public health management were improved.
        Financing and management of NCMS to increase reimbursement for chronic diseases was improved.

    Outcomes:

        The average number of outpatient visits per health professional per day over the last year at Township
         Health Centers increased from 3.9 outpatient visits in 2008 to 4 in 2014, not presenting a significant change
         and not achieving the target of a “positive trend."
        The public health system scorecard rating increased from 61.8 points in 2008 to 90.2 points in 2014,
         surpassing the target of 80 points.
        The rate of change of average cost per inpatient case in county hospitals decreased from 7.7% in 2009 to
         7.5% in 2014. This was lower than the provincial average rate of 8.5% and therefore achieved the target, as
         project counties saw costs grow more slowly than non-project counties.
        The percentage of deliveries by Cesarean section decreased from 28.9% in 2008 to 28.5% in 2014.
         However, this indicator was not well defined since it does not specify how many counties should have moved
         towards the WHO target of 15% for the indicator to be considered achieved. Also, it was not specified what a
         positive trend towards the WHO standards would look like, since for some counties that might imply an
         increase in C-sections while for others a decrease would be required. At the beginning of the project, 13
         project counties had C-section rates below the WHO standards and 10 counties had rates below 10%. At the
         end of the project, five of these 10 counties increased their C-section rates to slightly above 15%. In another
         four counties, the rate declined from the baseline of 7.1% to 4.4%. At the beginning of the project, 26 project
         counties had rates higher than the WHO standard. Therefore, for these counties a positive trend would mean
         a decrease towards the WHO standard. 38% of these counties were able to reduce their rates, but most
         counties still have rates that are significantly above 15%.




5. Efficiency:

    Substantial: Neither the PAD nor the ICR include a traditional economic efficiency analysis. The PAD (p. 13)
    states that an economic evaluation of the project is difficult because not all benefits of the project are quantifiable
    and can be valued in monetary terms. In lieu of the traditional economic analysis, the PAD states that the
    expected economic benefits of the project are linked to improved health outcomes and positive impact on
    individual lives and on society and the economy as a whole.
    The economic analysis in the ICR is based on the methodology used in the PAD. It compares expected results
    with results that were achieved under the project but does not attach monetary values. However, the block
    grants model was a cost-effective way to allow the localities flexibility in choosing their own pathways toward
    achievement of the objectives, and the activities financed by the block grants appear to have been, on the whole,
    cost-effective. For example, operating accounts were established in County Finance Bureaus, and report-based
    disbursement was implemented to meet project needs, which had a positive impact on disbursement efficiency.
    Also, the project design included an incentive and exit system, which rewarded best performing counties and
    identified poorly performing counties. This had a positive impact on managing performance and fostering
    competition among counties that translated into cost effectiveness. However, it should be noted that the ICR
    does not provide a quantitative estimate of cost savings, nor does it provide information on actual project
    management costs.
    The project experienced an almost one-year delay during preparation because the government expanded the
    project to include new provinces. Still, the project closed within budget at 97.80% of the appraisal estimate. On
    balance, efficiency is rated Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated High at appraisal and closing. Relevance of design is rated Substantial, as the
   project design included innovative approaches to address sector challenges and logically linked planned activitie
   s to anticipated outcomes. Achievement of all objectives is rated substantial. Efficiency is also rated substantial,
   as several aspects of project implementation are indicative of cost-effectiveness in the use of project resources. T
   aken together, these ratings are indicative of minor shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation,
   and therefore an Outcome rating of Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The government demonstrates continued political and financial commitment and ownership to implement further
                                                                                                  th
   rural health reforms. Overall rural development is included as an objective in the country's 12 five-year plan, and
   the ICR (p. 20) states that the government intends to continue to refine the NCMS and MA. However, continued
   weak capacity in some provinces and counties means that government support will still be required after project
   closing. The government and the Bank are discussing a follow-on project to further deepen the rural health
   reforms.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank conducted in-depth analysis of the health sector reform and worked closely with the government
   and national experts during the three and a half years of project preparation. The project was based on the
   findings of the Bank’s Rural Health Reform Analytic and Advisory Activities, and on lessons learned from the
   Basic Health Services Project (a precursor to this project) and from other countries that implemented health
   reforms. The project design was innovative but complex, as it aimed to reform health financing, service
   delivery and public health function reforms in 40 counties in eight provinces.

   The Bank identified several relevant risk factors during preparation, including weak financial management
   capacity at the county level, insufficient commitment to modern M&E methodology, unfamiliarity of national
   and provincial expert panels with modern approaches to fostering innovations effectively, and successful
   innovations are not scaled up as part of national policy. The Bank mitigated these risks adequately by
   providing technical assistance from international experts, supervision at the provincial and central level, and
   funding for knowledge sharing.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions with international experts and closely cooperated with
   government counterparts. Frequent changes of Task Team Leaders, three in six years, were responsible for
   some knowledge and institutional memory gaps that had an impact on project implementation, especially at
   the beginning of the project period. The Bank team set up a learning platform for project counties and
   organized bi-annual dissemination workshops and a South-South knowledge exchange.

   However, once the funding by DfID was exhausted, the Bank team did not have sufficient financial resources
   to include as many international experts for supervision. The counterpart team had high expectations about
   the Bank’s technical assistance, but these expectations could not always be met given the allocated
   supervision budget. The implementation of reforms in three different areas in 40 different counties was a
   stretch for the Bank and the government. Given the project’s wide coverage, it was a challenge for the Bank
   to remain fully engaged across all counties, participate in the policy dialogue, and provide technical
   assistance.

   The Results Framework and its high-level outcome and output indicators, which were not directly linked to
   project activities, were discussed during the Mid-Term Review, but no agreement on alternative indicators
   was reached.
  Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government is highly committed to rural health reforms and demonstrated strong ownership of the project
   during project preparation and implementation. The government created an enabling environment for the
   implementation of the project by making significant investments in rural health care systems.

   The project experienced an almost one-year delay in finalizing its design because the government expanded
   the project to include new provinces. It turned out, however, that this delay had a positive impact, allowing for
   more in-depth analysis and better alignment of the project’s timetable with the government’s health reform.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Center for Project Supervision and Management (CPSM) was responsible for overall project
   implementation. The CPSM demonstrated strong leadership during project preparation and implementation,
   building on its experience in implementing Bank projects. The project benefited from the same project
   manager at CPSM during the entire project life. CPSM provided close monitoring of implementation progress
   and pro-actively resolved issues. Also, the CPSM coordinated with the Bank and DfID to conduct joint
   supervision missions. Results were shared with project and non-project counties. Project covenants were
   largely complied with, and if there was a risk of non-compliance, necessary actions were taken. The project
   did not encounter any major financial fiduciary issues.

   The Provincial Project Management offices were responsible for the coordination of project activities at the
   provincial level through the Provincial Bureaus of Health. Their main responsibilities included logistics of
   implementation, developing work plans, and monitoring and reporting of progress at the provincial level. The
   ICR (p. 22) states that all eight Provincial Bureaus of Health performed strongly.

   The County Project Management offices were responsible for project implementation at the county level. Most
   County Project Management Offices were fully committed to achieving the project’s objectives. However,
   there were different levels of capacity and performance across counties and provinces. Some offices lacked
   capacity in the implementation of the Bank’s financial management procedures, especially since the payment
   of advances was introduced as a new disbursement mechanism. However, this challenge was addressed
   with training provided by the CPSM and the Bank.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Results Framework included seven PDO and 15 intermediate outcome indicators. The objective of the
   project was clearly defined and reflected in the selected indicators. The indicators were measurable in terms of
   numbers and timing. However, the Results Framework included high-level outcome and output indicators, which
   were not directly linked to project activities. Since counties had the flexibility to design project activities under the
   block grant financing mechanism, the indicators in the Results Framework could not include activities that were
   not yet defined and developed.

   The design for data collection and analysis was appropriate for this project and included three surveys (baseline,
   mid-term and end-of project) to assess progress towards achievement of the project’s objectives. Only five of 22
   indicators used routine data from the New Cooperative Medical Scheme or the health management information
   system. Also, some indicators used data from household surveys. Therefore, continuous real-time monitoring
   was challenging. CPSM developed an M&E operational manual, which identified methods, content, and
   responsibilities for institutions at different levels. CPSM tracked 23 regular process indicators whose data was
   used to inform decision making. In addition, the project counties identified triggers for disbursement of funds for
   each pilot activity.

b. M&E Implementation:

   A project information system to collect, store, process, retrieve, transmit, and aggregate information was
   developed. It included an online reporting system for regular M&E project data. The project information system
   became operational in February 2010 and issued six monthly M&E reports and annual reports. Project surveys
   were conducted at the same time as the national health surveys to allow for better comparison and analysis
   between the project and the national health reform and outcomes between project counties versus non-project
   counties.

c. M&E Utilization:

   According to the ICR (p. 9), M&E results were used for the supervision of the project and as the basis for the
   incentive and exit systems, which rewarded the best performing counties twice during project implementation. In
   total 22 project counties were rewarded. Five counties were identified as poor performers, targeted for support
   and rectification measures.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Category B and triggered OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) due to the
   potential environmental impacts of new construction and rehabilitation of village clinics and, especially, medical
   waste disposal at village clinics. A Medical Waste Management Plan was developed, and no significant
   safeguards issues were identified during project implementation.

   Safeguards OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) and OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous People) were triggered to
   ensure that participating counties’ ethnic minority issues were identified and addressed. Also, a safeguard policy
   was put in place in case land acquisition would occur under the project and require resettlement. A resettlement
   policy framework and ethnic minority development planning framework were developed. Renovation and
   construction of clinics was mainly done on already existing sites, and no outstanding issues were identified during
   supervision. According to the ICR, the ethnic minority development plan was implemented satisfactorily


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management : The project maintained adequate financial management systems, project funds were
   used for intended purposes, and adequate accounts were managed. The project used an innovative approach
   that established operating accounts in county finance bureaus and report-based disbursement, which led to
   improved disbursement efficiency.

   The project did not encounter any major fiduciary issues relating to financial reporting and auditing (ICR, page
   23). The project team stated that audit reports for MOH and for each province were received every year. For
   2010 and 2011, qualified (nonstandard) audit reports were received for Heilongjiang, and remedial actions
   including refund/cancellation were taken. For other years and other provinces, audit reports were received with
   unqualified (standard) opinions.
    Procurement: The project did not encounter any major issues related to procurement (ICR, page 23).


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 24) offers valuable lessons, including the following:

     1. A Results Framework containing indicators that are closely linked to project activities and that use routine
        data from the management information system is useful for continuous monitoring of progress towards
        project objectives. In this project, the Results Framework consisted of indicators that measured high-level
        outcomes and used data from household surveys. Therefore, continuous real-time monitoring was
        challenging.
     2. Evaluation, documentation, and dissemination of experiences can foster knowledge transfer and an
        environment of evidence-based decision making. In this project, a learning network for project counties
        was established that fostered learning, knowledge generation, and sharing. Since the Project
        Management Office was responsible for developing materials for dissemination, there is a higher
        likelihood of sustainability.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation. It is consistent in its analysis.
    However, the ICR is lengthy, does not provide sufficient information on fiduciary aspects such as procurement,
    and is not clear in presenting concrete outputs of the project in Annex 2. The ICR uses the three reform areas to
    measure project outcomes rather than assessing achievement of the project's stated objectives.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
