Document of
The World Bank                                  \       -1  I 77 t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3577-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 44.3 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
May 16, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit-       Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1             =   Rs 13
Rs 1             =   US$0.077
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP    -   Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ATTA    -   Agricultural Technology and Technical
Assistance Department
GOP     -   Government of Pakistan
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
MCO     -   Mobile Credit Officer
M&E     -   Monitoring and Evaluation
PillI   -   Private Minor Irrigation
SBP     -   State Bank of Pakistan
WAPDA   -   Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:           Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
Amon-t:                Loan:   US$10 million (including capitalized front
end fee)
Credit: SDR 44.3 (US$47.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Loan:   repayment in 20 years including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest
rate
Credit: standard terms
RelP ding Terms:       The Loan and Credit proceeds would be on-lent to ADBP
at annual interest of 4% and with repayment over 20
years, including five years of grace. GOP would bear
the foreign exchange and interest risks.
Project Description:  The project aims to further strengthen ADBP as a
sound and effective institution focusing principally on
lending to smaller farmers. It would provide, through
ADBP, loans to farmers for medium and long-term
agricultural investments in farm mechanization,
implements and equipment, private minor irrigation,
on-farm development and dairy animals. The main risks
are that ADBP would not achieve its lending targets
because of institutional difficulties, shortage of
funds or lack of appropriate technology; and that ADBP
may fail to improve its recovery position. The project
includes specific measures to address each of these
eventualities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
-…JS$ million-------
1.  Farm Development Loans
Tractors                                     122.1       123.9       246.0
Farmn Implements                              41.0        12.0        53.0
Private Minor Irrigation                      23.0        16.0        39.0
On-farm Development                           43.0         4.0        47.0
Livestock                                     33.0         -          33.0
2.  Fishery Development Loans                       7.6       10.4        18.0
3.  Agroindustry and Project Loans                 25.0       26.0        51.0
4.  Short-Term Loans                              76.0        33.0       109.0
5.  Technical Assistance
6.  Vehicles and Equipment                          2.0         2.0        4.0
7.  Training and Technical Specialists              -           1.0        1.0
Total Base Cost                                   372.7      228.3       601.0
Plhysical Contingencies                             1.0        -           1.0 Ia
Price Contingencies                                37.0       22.0        59.0
Total Project Cost                               410.7       250.3       661.0
less:  Taxes and Duties                         58.0         -          58.0
Net Project Cost                                  352.7      250.3       603.0 /b
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
…    US$ million--------
ADBP Borrowers' Contribution                 48.3          -         48.3
GOP/SBP                                     215.2        127.5      342.7
IBRD                                          -           10.0       10.0
IDA                                           -           47.8       47.8
IFAD                                          -           25.0       25.0
ADBP /c                                     147.2         40.0      187.2
Total                                   410.7        250.3      661.0
Estimated Disbursements:                         FY84         FY85       FY86
--------US$ million-------
Annual                                        6.9         21.9       29.0
Cumulative                                    6.9         28.8       57.8
Rate of Return:    n.a.
Appraisal Report: No. 4410-PAK dated May 2, 1983
Map: IBRD No. 16970R
/a  Only for well-digging in the private minor irrigation component.
/b Includes front end fee of $0.03.
/c Includes $20.0 million from ADB and $20.0 million from Italy.



INTERNATIONAL BANm FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RrCOIT.IE1-DATION OF THE PRFSIDENT TO THE EXECIJTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN FOR A FIFTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMIENT BANK PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
and Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for US$10 million (including
capitalized front end fee) and SDR 44.3 million (US$47.8 million equiv-
alent), respectively, to help finance a Fifth Agricultural Development Bank
Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years'
grace, at the standard variable interest rate; the IDA Credit would be on
standard IDA terms. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) is considering a loan of US$25 million equivalent for the project on
similar terms to the IDA Credit, and the Government of Italy is considering
a $20 million loan with a term of 15 years, including two years of grace,
at 2.25% interest p.a. The proceeds of the Bank Loan and IDA Credit would
he onlent to the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) for 20
years, including five years' grace, at 4.0% interest p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMIY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on February 16, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about
2.8% p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real
terms by 10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8%
p.a. and in industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with
the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3561-PAK (Fourth Drainage Project) dated
May 6, 1983.



-2-
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Mliddle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production.  Partictilar attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.
At the same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy
(which has been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the
development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes
in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the
water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pes-
ticides, seeds, agricultural credit, extension, researclh and farm
power--have also been strengthened.  These initiatives are still at an
early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened.  A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports.  These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a
sharp increase in private investment, mainly in small and medium-scale
projects.



-3-
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reJluced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The
budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82,
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79,
rose by an average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and inten-
sified efforts to improve tax collections. Although political developments
outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints
were maintained on total spending; the growth of public expenditures was
limited to 13% p.a. The expansion of development and administrative expen-
ditures were restrained, while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%.
These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During
FY80 through FY82, the overall budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the
bank-financed budget deficit 1.7% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77
and FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578
million in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an
*            increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was
US$991 million or 3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or
nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's
ability to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the
conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the INIF in Novem-
ber 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows;



-4-
and an agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for
rescheduling of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling
due over an 18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence
of improved performance on both current account and capital account, for-
eign exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million
during the year; the latter was the equivalent of about two months' worth
of import of goods and services.
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in
both unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in
the world economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitive-
ness resulting from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January
1982 (the currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket
of currencies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous
year. Because of the decline in world petroleum prices and import sub-
stitution in some key sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume
of imports of essential raw materials and capital goods could still grow
sufficiently to provide for a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total
value of imports expanded by only 2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakis-
tan's current account deficit rose from US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530
million in FY82 (the latter being equivalent to 4.7% of GNP).  Net inflows
of official assistance, private capital and IMF resources were not suffi-
cient to cover the increased deficit and there was a drawdown of about
US$200 million in reserves. At the end of FY82, reserves were US$840
million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments, further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are
limiting economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the
factors lying behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental



-5-
factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, output growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on
yields at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity
is recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing
this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agricultural and
water sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be
further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and con-
siumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to
be carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in
pricing and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To
assist the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased
momentum in the industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local
and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the
more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage. Analysis is in progress to determine levels of
effective protection in order to provide the basis for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow and
Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be



-6-
realized. The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relat-
ing to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order
to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards. Ilowever, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher
education and urban health facilities. The Government has recently shown
more awareness of this problem; a new and more promising population program
is in the initial stages of implementation, and several special programs to
improve basic health and education facilities were introduced in the FY83
budget, especially for rural areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the public sector and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through further
appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential
imports. Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve
revenues through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate
increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation
water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial



-7-
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to
face a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance, and have established an improved framework witlhin which further
reforms can be effectively pursued. The recent government policy initia-
tives, which have been formulated in close consultation with the Bank and
Fund, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing
and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt
(excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which
US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium,
US$1.2 billion to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the
balance to other bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's
share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external
debt service was 13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent
policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt
service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor services),
which was about 12% in FY82, should rise slowly during the 1980s, even
assuming substantial commercial borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remain-
ing in the 15-16% range through FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.5 billion. During its
long association withi Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost
all sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
*          commitments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education. Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to



-8-
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting
services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important pur-
pose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(.PICIC), and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry. As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made investments in 16
Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$183.1 million, of which US$176.7
million was by way of loans and TJS$11.4 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$58.4 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include 3 in the
field of pulp and paper products, 2 each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,
plastics and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthen-
ing the institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and
federal and provincial highway agencies.  In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Indus Basin Development Program of Ilangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening
the Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assist-
ing in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic



-9-
energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework
for increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply
project in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for
education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary,
post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural education, mid-
dle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In ad(lition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from tine to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment
lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June
1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government
procedures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to
slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle
East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power generation, industrial financing, oil and gas development, irrigation
and agriculture. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints
for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases
is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-10-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Background
32.     Agriculture is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy, accounting for
about 30% of GNP. It employs about 55% of the nation's labor force, and
directly or indirectly, produces about two-thirds of Pakistan's export
earnings (principally from cotton and rice). As discussed in Part I,
growth in agricultural value added averaged 1.7% from FY70 to FY76, but
increased to an average of 3.8% p.a. between FY77 and FY82.  Improved
government policies as well as favorable weatlier were responsible for this
encouraging growth in the sector.  The increase in output encompassed all
major crops and resulted in the achievement of self-sufficiency in wheat.
33.     The new National Agricultural Policy (NAP) announced by GOP in
February 1980 (paragraph 6) included as major elements a progressive
adjustment of prices of key agricultural inputs and outputs to reflect real
resource costs, thereby phasing out input subsidies while providing
appropriate incentives for increased production; a gradual transfer of
certain operations from the public to the private sector (e.g., the dis-
tribution of agricultural inputs and the exploitation of fresh
groundwater); and a reorientation of public recurrent and investment expen-
ditures to optimize the use of existing facilities.
34.     Since NAP was issued, subsidies in pesticides have been eliminated
in Punjab and Sind and are being phased out in the remaining provinces;
fertilizer prices have been raised substantially, leading to an important
reduction of fertilizer subsidies; the amounts allocated for provincial
operation and maintenance of the canal system and public tubewells have
been increased, as have water charges, so that an increasing proportion of
such expenditures are now recovered through charges paid by the
beneficiaries; crop procurement/support prices have been periodically
increased, bringing them more in line with international prices; and an
Agricultural Prices Commission has been established to provide a more
systematic basis for future pricing decisions. Government investment
decisions have emphasized rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system; improved water conservation through watercourse and
on-farm improvement; necessary drainage in waterlogged and saline areas;
foodgrain storage; research and extension; improved seeds; the development
of rural roads; and credit facilities.
35.     Although their immediate effect has been encouraging, these policy
reforms are too recent to have had a significant impact on farm yields,
which generally remain low. Further sustained government efforts are
required to improve agricultural input programs and supporting services
such as credit and extension, especially for smaller farmers.



-ll-
Agricultural Credit
36.     The rural credit delivery system in Pakistan has three main out-
lets: the kgricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), with a 31%
share in total agricultuiral lending in FY82; the commercial banks (CB),
with a 48% share; and the cooperative banking system, with a 21% share.
Available agricultural credit has grown from Rs 1.9 billion in FY78 to Rs
5.1 billion in FY82, an average growth rate of 29% p.a. Lending targets
for these credit institutions are set by the Agricultural Credit Department
(ACD) of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). The Director of ACD is also a
member of ADBP's Board. Despite the recent increase, the volume of
agricultural credit provided through the banking system is still inade-
quate; many farmers remain dependent on credit from non-institutional
sources.
37.     ADBP is the largest credit institution involved in lending to
agriculture in Pakistan. ADBP was established in 1961 by merging the
Agricultural Development Finance Corporation and the Agricultural l3ank of
Pakistan, founded in 1952 and 1956, respectively. ADBP is wholly Govern-
ment-owned with SBP holding 98% and the Provincial Governments 2% of the
current paid-up capital. ADBP is administered by a 12-nember Board. Its
Chairman is the Chief Executive and is appointed by GOP. Since 1978, the
Chairman's position has been held by a professional banker, contrary to the
earlier tradition of appointing a civil servant to the post. ADBP conducts
its operations through a network of 24 regional offices and 166 branches.
Total staff strength is about 3,800.
38.     In the past ADBP experienced serious financial and other problems.
In large part these arose from the fact that ADBP was used by GOP as an
instrument for implementing welfare-type programs, particularly so-called
"emergency lending," undertaken after such natural disasters as iloods and
droughts; in these operations ADBP was required to disburse its own funds
for extensive lending in affected areas based on the recommendation and
certification of Revenue Department officials. The poor recovery of emer-
gency loans reduced ADBP's credit discipline, impaired staff motivation
and adversely affected its financial position. ADBP's viability and effec-
tiveness, however, have imnproved significantly in the last few years as
a result of a marked improvement in its management and organization, and
*          through the re-adoption of sound banking practices.  An important first
step to improve the quality of its portfolio was the Government's suspen-
sion of further emergency lending through ADBP in 1979.
39.     In addition, ADBP has established the Mobile Credit Officer (MCO)
Scheme, a supervised credit program to bring modern banking to smaller
farmers and landless tenants. InitLally conceived as a pilot project, the
MCO scheme has expanded rapidly and is intended to cover 35,000 out of
about 45,000 villages in Pakistan by FY85. The number of MCOs has grown
from 120 in FY3O to about 800 at present, with a target of 1,400 by FY85.



-12-
The MCOs are mostly agricultural graduates who, immediately after recruit-
ment by ADBP, receive special training in one of ADBP's two staff training
colleges. The effectiveness of the MCO scheme in extending banking serv-
ices into the rural areas has been impressive. Loan disbursements by ADBP
channeled through MCOs increased from 8.3% in FY80 to 46.3% in FY82.
Recovery rates on current dues have been around 90%.
40.     ADBP's net profits have increased from Rs 12.1 million in FY80 to
Rs 53.9 million in FY82. The increased profits have resulted mainly from
the provision by GOP of an adequate interest spread (currently 7%) on
ADBP's operations and improved recovery rates. In addition, administrative
expenses have grown slowly, an indication of improved staff efficiency.
Bad debt provisions have been built up in the last five years from Rs 198
million in FY78 to Rs 419 million in FY82. SBP subscribes annually the
additional amount of capital that is necessary to maintain a debt equity
ratio of 7:1. At the end of FY82 total equity and reserves amounted to Rs
527 million, an increase of 26% over FY81.
Bank Group Involvement
41.     Between 1965 and 1979 IDA provided ADBP with US$107 million in four
credits (76-PAK, 117-PAK, 157-PAK and 957-PAK), Tle first credit for US$27
million, signed in June 1965, reimbursed the foreign exchange costs of
tubewells (US$10 million) and farm machinery (US$17 million). The second
credit was a short-term bridging operation signed in June 1968, in which
IDA provided US$10 million and the Swedish International Development
Authority US$5 million. The third credit for US$30 million was made in
1969 and closed in 1976. This project financed the purchase of about 8,000
tractors and 4,600 tubewells which accountedi for 63.7% and 16.3% of disbur-
sements, respectively, the balance being used for spare parts and farm
management services. Disbursement targets for tractors and spare parts
were achieved but disbursements for tubewells fell short of expectations.
42.     The Project Performance Audit of Credit 157-PAK by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED)l/ concluded that "The agricultural growth
impact of the project has been positive, and estimated ex-post economic and
financial rates of return exceeded the original estimates. However, the
source of the achieved growth has been different from original assumptions.
The real production expansion of the project is mainly attributable to the
increase in the cultivated area, assisted by tractorization, and to a
lesser extent to cropping intensity based on tubewell irrigation and
mechanized cultivation. Tractor use itself resulted in little direct yield
1/ "Project Performance Audit Report; Pakistan - Third Credit for Agricul-
tural Development Bank (Credit 157-PAK)," OED Report No. Sec M78-559,
dated June 30, 1978.



-13-
increase. A shift in the cropping pattern also contributed to the rise in
the value of output.  The socio-economic impact of tractorization ulnder the
project in the context of introductio;n of intermediate iiechanization (of
cultivation but not harvesting operatLoas) has been substantially consis-
tent with recorded experiences in other countries such as India and may be
summarized as follows: (a) while the rate of return of tractor investments
was generally satisfactory, actual increases in yields and cropping in.en-
sities were substantially less than forecast at appraisal; and (b) trac-
torization led to displacement of tenants by the land-owner, as far as farm
operations were concerned. However, the aggregate demand for farm labor
was not significantly reduced because the use ol tractors also created new
demands for labor."
43.     The OED assessment was taken into account in designing the Fourth
ADBP Project (Cr. 957-PVK) as well as other agricultural projects in Pakis-
tan.  A series of measures were adopted under the Fourth ADBP Project to
promote more intensive cultivation practices and the use of farm equipment
tailored to small farmers' needs. The TUS$30 mnillion Credit, with joint
IFAD financing of SDR 23.75 million, supported ADBP's lending program for
three years in farm mechanization, minor irrigation, land improvement,
canal lining and livestock. Under the project, increasing emphasis was to
be placed on lending to farmers owning 25 ac or less in order to sig-
nificantly reduce ADBP's previous emphasis on large farmiers. To facilitate
this change of direction, security requirements for loans were modified to
include movable as well as immovable property, and the use of appropriate
farm technology, especially compact tractors below 30 hp, was to be
promoted. Emphasis on institution-building features was to be reflected in
the gradual adoption of full on-farm loan appraisal, involving the assess-
ment of the financial, economic and social impact of loans made by ADBP,
and in a series of measures to improve ADBP's financial and administrative
efficiency.
44.     The Credit for the Fourth ADBP Project became effective in June
1980. Disbursements, although at first slower than expected, have gained
momentum during the last two years. All IDA funds have now been committed
by ADBP. The project has achieved a number of its institution-building
aims. These include the re-introduction of full on-farm appraisals for all
development loans and the establishment of a new managenent organization,
*         which have helped to improve ADBP's operations substantially.  Measures
taken by ADBP have enabled it to build up adequate provisionis for bad debts
and enhance its reserves from increased profits. The iriproved lending and
collection system, introduced with the MCO scheme, has had a healthy effect
on ADBP's recovery of current dues, which have improved from 53% in FY78 to
an acceptable level of 79% in FY82. Recovery of old overdue loans has
remained low, but ADBP has initiated action to "clean up" these ac-ounts.
45.     ADBP's lending to farmers holding 25 ac or less has grown substan-
tially and has exceeded the appraisal targets in absolute terms, although



-14-
it has fallen short of projections as a proportion of total lending.
Smaller farmers received 52% against a projected 60% of ADBP's total
development lending in FY81, and about 60% against a projected 75% in FY82.
A similar picture has evolved withl respect to ADBP's efforts to diversify
lending. Loans for tractors have continued to dominate ADBP's operations,
accounting for 57% of total lending in FY82. Although about 55% of tractor
loans went to the 25 ac or less farm category, promotion of the use of
compact tractors and other equipment suitable for operation on small farms
has so far been slow. However, following initial tests of the use of
compact tractors under Pakistan conditions, GOP has recently authorized the
import of 200 compact tractors on a trial basis. The response by farmers
to the first batch of these vehicles has been encouraging. In addition,
GOP has decided to float an international tender for compact tractors,
linked to their eventual assembly and manufacture in Pakistan. The growth
of lending for farm implements and private small-scale irrigation has so
far also been less than expected; lending for livestock and general on-farm
development, on the other hand, has exceeded expectations.
46.      The proposed fifth project is designed to accelerate ADBP's
progress in those areas--such as diversification of its lending--where
improvements have tended to lag under the fourth project, while consolidat-
ing and carrying further the considerable improvements in the overall
management and organization of ADBP, its financial position and in other
areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      The proposed project was appraised in November/December 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during April 1983; the Pakistan
Delegation was led by Mr. A. Jamil Nishtar, Chairman, ADBP. A report
entitled "Pakistan: Staff Appraisal Report - Fifth Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank Project" (Report No. 4410-PAK, dated May 2, 1983) is being
circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
48.     The proposed project aims to further strengthen ADBP E's a sound and
effective lending institution reaching an increasing proportion of the
rural community, and to support ADBP's FY84 and FY85 lending programs.
During the project period ADBP would:
(i) expand the coverage of the Mobile Credit Officer (MCO) scheme
from 11,000 villages in FY82 to 35,000 out of 45,000 villages
by FY85;



-15-
(ii)  minimize the cost of lending to smaller farmers and improve
recovery rates by enhancing the efficiency of the MC0 scheme;
(iii) further improve the quality of its investments by increased
emphasis on appraisal and supervision, thus permitting a
gradual lowering of collateral requirements for loans;
(iv) further increase its efforts to promote lending for
appropriate farm machinery and otlher agriciltural implements
to smaller farmers; and
(v) improve its financial position by regularly reviewing and
taking action on overdue accounts and perio(dically increasing
its capital to keep its debt equity ratio at the required
level.
Project Description
49.     The project would comprise ADBP's total proposed lending program
for the two fiscal years 1983/84 and 1984/85, which would provide for
medium and long-term agricultural investments mainly in the following
areas: (i) farm mechanization; (ii) private minor irrigation;
(iii) on-farm development; and (iv) livestock. While undertaking this
lending, ADBP would encourage on-farm investments that would lead to diver-
sification of agriculture; place special emphasis on the needs of smaller
farmers; and promote the use of more modern farming practices, including
better tillage practices. In addition, ADBP would make short-term loans
for seasonal inputs, as well as development loans to promote fisheries and
agro-industrial investments.
50.     Farm Mechanization.  Lending under this category would cover
investments for tractors, primary and secondary cultivating implements, and
general farm equipment such as grain threshers, reapers, spray units and
small self-propelled implements. Provision of such equipment would help
alleviate the farm power shortage in Pakistan and improve crop cultivation
techniques. In all, it is projected that there would be about 40,000 such
farm mechanization loans. Compared to previous years, increased lending
would be provided for compact tractors, implements and equipment at the
*          expense of larger tractors.  ADBP would promote the sale of primary tillage
implements as well as the use of ballast with tractors (Section 2.09 of the
draft Project Agreement).  Major labor-displacing equipment such as combine
harvesters would not be eligible for funding by the Bank/IDA and IFAD.
51.     Available evidence indicates that labor displacement caused by
tractorization is significantly less on farms of 25 ac or less than on
larger farms, and that the benefits of tractorization oIL smaller farms are
more pronounced, especially through increases in cropping intensity and
reduction of waste land. To encourage ADBP lending to smaller farmers, the



-16-
Bank/IDA and IFAD would refinance tractor loans only to farmers with 25 ac
or less. In addition, ADBP would provide tractor power to smaller farmers
both by lending for custom-hiring arrangements and by increasing the
availability of compact and used tractors. GOP has arranged (see paragraph
45) to introduce compact tractors into Pakistan to test the demand for
them. It also intends to invite tenders on an international basis for
further supplies of compact tractors linked to their assembly and manufac-
ture in Pakistan.
52.     Private Minor Irrigation.  This category would include lending for
tubewells and pumping units (including power connection when applicable),
spring water utilization and the repair or rehabilitation of existing minor
irrigation equipment. In total, about 7,100 wells and pump sets would be
financed, of which 5,700 are expected to be electric-powered shallow
tubewells, about 1,300 diesel-powered shallow tubewells, and about 100
electric-powered deep tubewells.
53.     Livestock.  ADBP would make special efforts to promote the expan-
sion of dairy herds and increase production of milk in areas where dairy
plants are operating or under construction. Dairy farmers in these areas
would receive advice from dairy plant extension staff and would have a
regular outlet for their produce. ADBP would advance loans to farmers for
the purchase of in-milk buffalos or cattle, the construction of dairy
sheds, and the provision of working capital to cover initial fertilizer and
feed costs. As far as possible, these loans would be made to landless or
smaller farmers.
54.     On-Farm Development.  Lending in this category would cover viable
farm investment activities such as land grading, construction and improve-
ment of watercourses, orchard development, afforestation, poultry develop-
ment, grain storage, bee-keeping and sericulture. Construction and/or
lining of channels and drains would include both individually owned struc-
tures related to tubewells, and communal structures operated by water users
associations. Financing would also be available for the purchase of oxen
for draught animals and cottage industries, including those suitable to
women.
Small Farmer Lending
55.     According to the Agricultural Census of 1972 (tlhe results of the
1980 Census are not yet available), about 89% of all farms in Pakistan are
25 ac or under; 68% are less than 12.5 ac and 21% are between 12.5 ac and
25 ac. However, farms in the 12.5-25 ac and less than 12.5 ac categories
cover only 27% and 30%, respectively, of all farm land, or a total of 57%,
while 3% of farms over 50 ac accounlt for 24%. Incomes on 20-25 ac farms
are estimated at about $205 and on 10-12.5 ac farms about $105 per capita;
the absolute poverty level for rural areas for 1983/84 is estimated at
about US$150 per capita. The focus of ADBP's lending has shifted in recent



-17-
years to farmers with holdings of 25 ac or less; development lending to
this group has increased from 47% to about 60% of ADBP's total farm
development lending since FY80. This emphasis would be continued under the
project. Accordingly, 70% of all investment lending to individual farmers
would be channeled in FY84 to farmers owning 25 ac or less, while in FY85
these farmers would receive 75% of all lending. One-third of ADBP's lend-
ing to the 25 ac or under farn category would go to farmers owning 12.5 ac
or less (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training
56.     The project would provide a total of 64 man-months (m/m) of con-
sultants (at about US$11,770 per m/m, including travel and subsistence),
including (a) 18 m/m for one agricultural economist and one agricultural
credit specialist who would help in the reorientation of appraisal proce-
dures and strengthening of ADBP's Appraisal Unit within the Credit Divi-
sion; (b) 12 m/m for a groundwater engineer for the Private Minor Irriga-
tion Unit (PIMI Unit) to be established within the Agricultural Technology
and Technical Assistance (ATTA) Department to promote investment in minor
irrigation; (c) 24 m/m for consultants for the development of small farm
technology packages; and (d) 10 mn/m for consultancy arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation, special studies and computer activities. GOP
would employ suitably qualified consultants for the above assignments in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The project would provide fellow-
snips for training about 20 officials from headquarters and regions, 10
branch managers and 30 MCOs in short-term courses in institutes in the
South Asia Region or Europe. The consultants would assist in local train-
ing of ADBP staff.
Vehicles and Equipment
57.     The project includes about 100 four-wheel-drive vehicles for ADBP'S
headquarters, regional offices and branches, 10 micro-computers for data
processing at the regional level, and video and other miscellaneous equip-
ment for training purposes.
Institutional Arrangements
58.     To attain overall project objectives and particularly to facilitate
access of smaller farmers to credit and ensure satisfactory loan recovery,
ADBP would expand its total staff and streamline its lending procedures and
organizational structure in accordance with the needs dictated by the rapid
expansion of its lending volume.
59.     In order to improve the quality of and simplify appraisal proce-
dures, ADBP would establish an Appraisal Unit within its Credit Division
to develop production and yield parameters on a regional basis for on-farm



-18-
appraisal activities.  The uil-t would use the services of two coa,multants
who would support and train ADBP staff in setting up the unit in its ini-
tial phase of operation (see paragraph 56).  ADBP would establish the
Appraisal Unit by Septemaber 30, 1983, and employ consultants by Decem-
ber 31, 1983 (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement). Appraisal
procedures acceptable to IDA would be followed (Sectioa 4.03(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.     ADBP would continue to use individual on-farm appraisals to support
its loan decisions. ADBP intends to expand the MCO scheme (paragraph 39)
to cover 35,000 villages by the end of FY85, with each ICO serving a maxi-
mum of 25 villages.
61.     A PMI Unit would be establishef  v7ithin the ATTA Department
(paragraplh 56), which would cooperate with the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) to help ADBP increase minor irrigation development on the
basis of scheme lending. The PMI Unit would be established by Septemn-
ber 30, 1983, and the groundwater specialist recruited by December 31, 1983
(Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement). The Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit would continue to review the project impact oni agricultural
production, the directioni of project funds to the target group and the
impact of tractorization. During implementation of the project, a sector
survey would be launched to analyze over a longer period the impact of farm
mechanization on farm size, labor displacement, migration from rural to
urban areas and abroad, landowner-tenant relationships and farm incomes.
ADBP would contract this study to a Pakistani research institute (Section
2.13 of the draft Project Agreement).
ADBP Lending Terms and Conditions
62.     Interest.  ADBP would make loans to individual farmers, coro-ratte
entities and farmers' groups at terms and conditions acceptable to the Banlc
and IDA. Interest on its loans would be at least 11% p.a., which is in
line with other interest rates in Pakistan. Inflation is currently about
8% p.a. and is expected to remain around or below this level.  Thus, ADBP's
lending rates would be positive in real terms.
63.     Securities.  With the improvement of appraisal and supervision
quality, it would be possible to lower security requirements.  ADBP would
take the necessary steps by October 31, 1983, to initiatR modificatinos to
its collateral requirements, in order to accept assets created out of loans
as full collateral, without the land mortgage requiremernt of pre-existing
assets (Section 2.14 of the draft Project Agreement). For dairy sector and
on-farm development investment, ADBP would accept personal guarantees,
sureties, liens on the items for which the loan would be made or other
appropriate forms of security. For this purpose the ceiling on surety
loans of Rs 5,000 determined by SBP has been recently increased to Rs
25,000.



-19-
Project Costs and Financing
64.     Project costs are based on ADBP's projected lending program for
FY84 and FY85 and are estimated at US$661 million, including US$58.0 mil-
lion in taxes and duties. Price contingencies on local costs have been
applied at 7.8% for FY84 and 7.0% for FY85 and on foreign costs at 7.75%
and 7.25%, respectively. Physical contingencies of 10% p.a. have been
applied only to civil works for investments in private minor irrigation.
65.     The proposed Loan of US$10 million and IDA Credit of SDR 44.3
million (US$47.8 million equivalent) would finance about 10% of project
costs net of duties and taxes. IFAD is considering a loan of about US$25
million which would be used in joint financing of ADBP's lending program
with the Loan and IDA Credit. Additionally, the Italian Government is
considering a loan of US$20 million for the financing of farm machinery and
equipment of Italian origin on a parallel basis. Agreenents have already
been finalized with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for financing of $20
million for the development of agro-industries and fisheries.
66.     GOP would onlend the proceeds of the Bank Loan and IDA Credit to
ADBP at 4% p.a. repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of five
years. This would give ADBP a 7% margin, which is required to finance
administrative costs and provide for bad debts and a modest profit to build
up general reserves. The size of this spread would be reviewed by June 30,
1984, and the results furnished to IDA for consideration and approval
(Section 4.03(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The lending
terms and conditions for the Loan and Credit would be included in a sub-
sidiary agreement between GOP and ADBP; the execution of this agreement
would be a condition of the Loan and Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 6.02(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
67.     GOP would increase ADBP's paid-up capital as and when needed to
keep its debt/equity ratio at 7:1 (Section 4.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). GOP would also make long-term funds available to ADBP
as and when needed to finance its lending program at an interest rate that
would not exceed 4% per annum (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit
*         Agreement).
Procurement
68.     Farmers would purchase tractors, farm implements, pump sets and
other equipment financed by ADBP loans through normal commercial channels.
With the qualification noted below regarding compact tractors, competition
for the supply of these items would be keen and prices competitive with
world market prices. With respect to compact tractors I)elow 30 hp, the
necessary conditions for farmer choice in a competitive market do not yet



-20-
exist. Therefore, the Bank and IDA wonld not reimburse ADBP for compact
tractor loans until GOP had issued import licenses for at least three
models in this class. In authorizing licenses, GOP would give preference
to applicants who offer competitive prices, adequate spare parts inventory
and after-sales service, and gradual assembly and manufacture in Pakistan.
The number of compact tractors to be imported would be determined by market
demand. The base cost of a the wide variety of items to be procured under
farmers' choice would be about US$418.4 million; IBRD/IDA would refinance
about US$56.9 million.
69.     Vehicles and equipment required by ADBP would be procured following
ICB procedures. For bidding purposes, vehicles and equipment would be
grouped in packages large enough to attract international competition
wherever possible. ADBP has introduced mini-computers selected under
international bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. The
mini-computers financed under the proposed project would be procured from
the same manufacturer, with a cost of US$0.3 million. Contracts for equip-
ment and vehicles not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 would be
awarded in accordance with GOP's local procurement procedures which are
satisfactory. Contracts for vehicles awarded under ICB procedures are
estimated at US$3.3 million.
Disbursement
70.     In accordance with the small farmer focus of the project, the Bank
and IDA would limit their reimbursement of ADBP's tractor loans to farmers
with 25 ac or less; IFAD would impose this limitation on its reimbursement
of non-tractor as well as tractor loans. Within this formula, the Bank,
IDA and IFAD would jointly finance (a) 26% of the amounts disbursed by ADBP
on medium and long-term loans for tractors, farm implements, private minor
irrigation, livestock and on-farm development for farmers with 25 ac or
less; and (b) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 60% of local expen-
ditures on the purchase by ADBP of vehicles and equipment for its own use
and 100% of technical assistance and training abroad and 75% for local
training. The Bank and IDA would finance 17% of the amounts disbursed by
ADBP on medium and long-term loans for farm implements, private minor
irrigation, livestock and on-farm development for farmers above 25 ac.
Disbursements for loans to farmers and farmers' groups would be made
against certified statements of expenditures (SOE) to be submitted by ADBP
to the Bank and IDA; documentation for the SOE would be retained by ADBP
for review by supervision missions. Audits of the SOE would be carried out
and each annual audit would include a separate opinion by the auditors on
the utilization of funds withdrawn under the SOE procedure. Disbursements
under (b) above would be made against appropriate documentation. Disburse-
ments of the Bank, IDA and IFAD funds would be in the ratio of 67% to 33%.
No disbursement would be made for expenditures made after June 30, 1984,
until satisfactory progress has been made in ADBP's loan recovery program



-21-
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(a)(iii) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). It is anticipated that final disbursements would be made by
June 30, 1986.
Loan Recoveries
71.     ADBP's improved lending techniques, specifically the Mobile Credit
Officer system, have led to significant improvements in the recovery of
current dues, from 53% in FY78 to 79% in FY82. However, ADBP's overall
recovery rates need to be further improved and overdues rescheduled or
written off where appropriate. A major portfolio review was initiated in
FY83. On the basis of this review, ADBP would carry out by September 30,
1983, a write-off exercise of long outstanding bad debts which would be
reflected in its financial statements for FY83, and develop a permanent
write-off policy acceptable to IDA and the Bank and based on sound banking
principles by December 31, 1983. By the latter date ADBP would also post
or appoint one experienced officer in each Region as Rescheduling Officer
who would advise regional and branch managers, MCO and ADBP clients on the
possible need for rescheduling and have specific rescheduling authority.
It is expecte(d that the write-off exercise in FY83, together with res-
cheduling operations with defaulters who would make partial payments, would
improve the overall recovery rate by about 10% to 60%.  Through these
measures, ADBP would aim to reach recovery rates of 70% by June 30, 1984
and 75% by June 30, 1985 (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
ADBP would continue to provide for bad debts and build up general reserves
(Section 2.01 of the draft Project Agreement). ADBP would submit a report
to the Association by May 31, 1984, on the impact of measures taken with
respect to the write-off and the permanent write-off policy (Section
2.01(e) of the draft Project Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
72.      ADBP accounts would continue to be audited annually by independent
auditors and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and
IDA. These audits would include audits on the utilization of funds
withdrawn under the SOE procedure. Audit reports, including separate
opinions on the SOF procedures and audited annual accounts of ADBP, would
iOe sent to the Bank and IDA within six months of the end of each financial
year.
Project Benefits and Risks
73.      The project would continue the progress made under the previous
project in improving ADBP's institutional capability and in increasing the
availability of investment farm credit in Pakistan. Smaller farmers would
have improved access to institutional banking through the expanded MCO
scheme, as well as to appropriate technology, and the share of landless and
target group farmers in ADBP's lending would rise substantially.



-22-
74.     The components financed under the project would directly benefit
about 116,000 farmers scattered throughout Pakistan and more than 600,000
family members. Of the beneficiaries, it is estimated that about 45% would
have pre-investment per capita incomes below Rs 1,950 (ITS$150), which is
estimated to be the absolute poverty level in rural areas. The project
would result in increased permanent employment estimated at 9.5 million
mandays per year at full development due to increased crop and livestock
production resulting from diversification of cropping, increased crop
intensity, improved farm practices, more assured production, and improved
standards of livestock husbandry. In addition, considerable short-term
employment would be generated by activities associated with tubewell and
watercourse construction, the building of sheds for dairy animals and
poultry and the planting of trees for orchards and forest. This would more
than offset possible adverse labor effects caused by tractors which are
estimated at 5.6 million mandays per year.
75.     Individual investments made under the project would vary widely,
depending on the location and personal circumstances of loan recipients and
the size and tenure of their farms. Economic and financial analyses were
made on the basis of incremental returns expected from the various types of
investment financed under the project. The economic rates of return (ERR)
are expected to be larger than 50% for farm mechanization, about 20% for
tubewells, 17-18% for dairy, and in the range of 30% to 50% for on-farm
development investments such as poultry units and orchards. The ERR are
sensitive to changes in benefits and operating costs where benefits and
operating costs are high in relation to investment costs, e.g., investments
in dairy and poultry. The financial rates of return (FE'R) for farm
mechanization range from 22% to 32% depending on tractor and farm size,
somewhat lower than the ERR because one of the benefits, savings in family
labor, is costed in the economic analysis but not in the financial
analysis.  The FRR for tubewells average 25%, slightly higher than the ERR;
while for dairy investments the FRR range from 35% to 70%, much higher than
the ERR because the financial prices for milk are higher than world market
prices (reconstituted from milk powder and butter oil). The FRR for
poultry and orchard investment are in the same order as the ERR. It is
estimated that tractors would be operated for 1,200 hours per year, includ-
ing time on contract to neighboring farmers. Given the number of tractors
in Pakistan compared to the size of the agricultural sector, the existing
strong demand for tractor hiring is expected to be maintained. On this
basis, the investment in tractors is financially attractive.
76.     One possible risk is that ADBP would fail to acbieve its lending
targets because of either institutional difficulties, shortages of funds or
a lack of investment opportunities, including mechanized equipment suited
to the needs of smaller farmers. The proposed arrangements under the
project, together with GOP's commitment to the expansion of agriculture
should provide adequate safeguards against any such difficulties. In this
context, the introduction of compact tractors below 30 hp in Pakistan would



-23-
be of great importance; their price would be about 60% of that for a
medium-size tractor and thus would be more affordable to farmers in the
25 ac or less category. Another risk would be the failure of ADBP to
improve its recovery position. Specific measures are included in the
project to deal with this problem. Recoveries could be influtenced by
climatic hazards which may cause genuine difficulties to farmers in making
punctual loan repayments. Since most of ADBP's lending would be in
irrigated areas, however, this risk should be limited.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.     The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Bank and the Association, respec-
tively, the draft Project Agreement between the the Bank and the Associa-
tion and ADBP and the Report of the Committee provided for in krticle III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The execution of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment between GOP and ADBP would be an additional condition of effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 6.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
78.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
79.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association.
PART VI - RECOMIMENDATION
80.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 16, 1983



-24-                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. M.)                        PAKISTAN                             -  MST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
TOTAL            803.9                                 MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   70.0       130.0      300.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      132.4       190.6     209.2               448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0      60449.0  82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1         24.9      28.2                17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      134.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        57.0        75.2      99.2               158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    200.4        248.9     316.9               355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        46.3      46.5                36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          51.8        50.5      50.7                59.7                     56.8
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         3.2       2.8                 3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.8       3.1                 2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               4.6         4.0       4.3                 3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.3        47.4      43.6                29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.3          19.9      16.0                11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.7         3.5       3.0                 2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF XARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..       6.o7;;             19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0       102.0     101.0               108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   87.8         97,.1     98.8/d              97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.1        59.8      62.8/d              56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIKAL AND PULSE        23.3        20.1      19.97-d             20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.4        21.5      17.8                10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.3          46.2      49.8                57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           161.5       143.0     125.5                89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0      29.0                32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..         77.0      60.0                70.7                    51.9
RURAL                                ..         4.0      17.0                22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         3.0       6.0                18.1                     37.7
URBAN                               ..         12.0      21.0                72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/e,f          3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSINIG PERSON    16961.8     13306.07f 10030.37e.f          4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1794.5      1860.1    1903.4/e f          1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                            506.8        648.1     712.9/efi           301.3                   651.6
RURAL                               ..      12478.5   11870.17e,f          5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                  ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3
URBAN                              5.6          5.5
RURAL                               5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1          2.8/
URBAN                              3.1          2.7/.
RURAL                              3.1          2.87       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         17.9/       ..
URBAN                               ..         54.4/       .
RURAL                               ..          4.9/



-25-                                                ANNEX I
Paz* 2
TABLE 3A
PAKISYW'-1UCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROtPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGE8
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIHATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      56.0                 97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0      81.0                101.0                 99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      31.0                 87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      16.0                 53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0         22.0      24.0                 63.8                 41.1
MFEALE                 3.0          6.0       8.0                 41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.4                 1.7                 20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6        41.5       40.1                 37.7                 35.5
SECONDARY                           24.0         19.8      18.7                 20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                 52.1                 73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          2.6       2.8/c                1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECELVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      65.8                 35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       9.4                  3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER (""DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.2           ..      13.7                 16.4                 53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/d     2.4                  3.6                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3      10.2                 29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0      57.0                 70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0      20.0                15.0                  17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7      27.7                 40.0                 38.5
MALE                                  55.2         50.4      47.2                 51.8                 50.5
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5       5.9                 23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.0                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37!         41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47k          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57k         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                 ..         47.071   122.0                111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                178.2
RURAL                                 ..         22.071    58.0                   ..                164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0/i    32.0                43.8                  24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.0/i    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /i 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



-26-                                                               ~~~~~~~ANNEX 1
DEPLNITIONYS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note.:  Allh.ugh the data are draw  from sorcsenrally judged the   ut authoritative ad reliable.  it should also he noted chat they say got be itotr-
tratfonaly cusparable  because of the lark of staududiod dofiniti-n  and  coocepte used by different ....te io  in collecting the data.  Trhe data are,noe
theless,  . cuful no deuc.rih odr  of  egnitudo, indicate treods.  and charuterioe cetuin eajor differen.os between  cuntrie..
The rofroreu Ere  ops ace (1) the  -ase cocorvy group of the subjeot country and (2) u coutry group with somewhat hsigher average income thur the  custry group
of the tubJoo- coat try (ou...pt for   "High Income   Oil inpottrs'  group obere "Middle Income North Adfrira aud Middle tEss" Is   .. bbe   ...ac.. of u-npg-r
sc-cattlofni s.Icthe ret o                      Setogoup data the avrges are pupulunion weighted arithmetic  mans foe oaoh indicator and shoo  oly  hen
majorty of the contie  toagra  h.s data fur that Ldloote.  Since the co-retgs of ccoresaog the iodioetrsr depends no rho  -cilahillay of dana
and ia nut aiform. catn         -ut ho enerrised in rotating avrages of cue indicator tn aeotbr.  Th.u. aveage  ar  culy ..sefu1 in coepuring tho valc  or
coo iodloatoct an    time aurg the rauntry and refer..to  groups.
Alti  (rhoasand nq.km.)                                                                            Pofa'lutiun  -o  Hos.ital Bed - tutal, urban, and rural  - Pupulatian  (total.
Total - TotalI.. uforoare coprising land urn. and inland waters; 1979 datu,                        aean  and rural1) dinided by their repective noher of hospital beds
Aoric.1t..a  - l.unate  of  aroloo   rea ased teMporarily or permnutly                             avetlablo in public sad poivun.E gotra  an d sperialieod hospital uod  o-
o.r cropa.  -atre.ouht and binohn gardon or In Lie  fallue; 1979 data.                          hohilitatienrues   Hospitals  -o  establishments pernuntly statffod
by as leantc one phystian. Etatblishmets pruvtdfig principally ous to-
INP PER CAPITA (lUS ) - GNP Per ospiat      t ae   at  arreet market prices. cal-                    dil.  cra  ree  not included.  turu1 hospitals, howevr, icuehealth
culatd hy eas  cv- so  me. thod as World Bash Anlus (197H-80 hurls); 1960.                         ad medical.. confrs not peemuetly staffed by a physinian  (hut by
197f, aud 19f  dna..                                                                               sediou.. asistant,   e,sidwife. etc.)  hinh uffer is-p-niun-             nu
dation and provide a limited range of medical fnrilitins. Per tsatin-
ENERGY CONSUIMPTION PER CAPITA, - hAnu-I --pnu.pne  uf ruria             nrgy (oa                     tiral prpne ..   ehan b   heupitals inn.lad  H0s prinolpa1/ganera1 hospitals,
and ligete, petroleum, natural ga  and hydro-                 . ulerad geotherma  nbc-             and rural hospitalu. lana  or rura IbosPitalo  und medinal aed eatetoity
tetolty) in kilugoom   uf couI equivalent Per caPita; 1960. 1970, and 1979                         centers.  ipec~ilse,d hosptTitals  re included eoly ader fund..
data.                                                                                             dmuiun_ per HoPital Hed- Toaln               r uf admission  to or diecha.gos
tram hospitals divided by the oute.r of hod..
P0PtU.ATIOO ANI5 VITAL STATIHSTICS
TtlPelte.Mid-Your (thoosanda) - Au of daly 1; 1960. t97f. and 19ff                   HOfUSING
data.                                                                 ~~~~~Average.  Se. uf fonhbld (esn   e  h-uocd    ttl  ura .ad rual
Urban Ppitioc (poroest of total) - farm  of aehu  tu total pspulatlc;                              A houshld  -onists of a gru.p of   dividaln who share living quortern
differntdeflaitious of ura  ars say affect toparaility of data                                   and their nab  meal.  A hoarder or lodger nay or say cat be incrudd in
ameg r.outine; 196D. 1970  . an  1980 data.                                                      the houshold for unatistIraI purposes.
PuEslaie  Ls you  2000 - Currant puaainpeuJotians ace based an 19ff                               her of peF   e   e  ro   nal  ca,ad rurlaccid  ovotoa
tutl ppultin h  ag  ad set a-d their martality aod fertility rats.,                      wlig.vsetvl.ielig  acaontpraetnrcue   n
Projection paramnrn fur artality ratas coprin.ouf thes  laelass-                                nocpied partu.
ing lfe onpetay at birth  inorveniug eith  -onry"'u Per caiairm                              oont   lor               pA.ot  fIeli ) - tt                 rban, and rual-1
level  ad fmale life eupecttory stahiliolog of 77.5 years.  The para-                         Coovennian..  dsI iusl.1c ltriciry in lioicgqatr  asperca-cgo
meters fur fortility rota also have three leoelu auaning derline  In                           of total, arhue, and rural dstlliogu  ce-p-tlo-ly.
fert ility arrording to inrom level ond Past family planning perfoveanto
Eaoh onuntry Is then assigned on  of these 0100  -boinat ions cf mrtality                 EDUCATION
and fertility trends for Pruj ctionprpss                                                    Adjustd Enroi1urt Patios
Itatanar  poalacna-nasttianoy   opultin  choe inno  rowt  otre          Pisay  -hboulf- rrl,  ale an d female - Gr-a rural, nab  and femle
the birth ratn In equal to the doutb rate, and also the age structutre ye                        _nimet Iu   l   ges at the priory lurel.   ...percetages uf rouperrica
maIn   cotn.Thin In achieved only after fotilitY  rates decliee to                               primary school-ago popal.a...s  cor-ay include  chiIdeo  aged 6-it
tho replacomet level of :clt oet reproduction rate, whoa ieach  gnretic                          pe.t. bun adjnted fur diffareut ler,gthu of primary edo..ation,        o
ofseenvplaco  itself  _nacly.  The utatiaary pupulatie slewa_ountrieu sith universal odocotIun  enrllen  nay ood  i  Prct
eistiend. on the basis of the projected characteristics of the populato                          sico sam  popiln ore below or aho- the official school ago.
inthe yer 2fD. and the rat  of dcline at fartility rate cc replaco-                          Secundary school - total, sole and fonalo - Cunpu-d as  bhuo;nococdary
met local-d .                                                                                    e otinro.qairus at Ibust  four poF soaprvd primary ITesr_tiont;
Yearsttionary cpulaItion Is rearchod - The poo  ha-ttinr  population                               providen generl, oncatonal  or coa `tbercriain           nut      ..to. f or pupilo
sine will he rooted.usully of l  to 17 poa~rn of a go; ...vvspucdoc ...o..rnos ace go.erally
Povulution Denaity                                                                                   ounaded
Pet as. ha     M Ind-you. ooato   e  uur   ilaeter flog hoctaros) of                           Vocatoa  nnlec  preto   eodary) - Vocational insci.tuians
total ar;1960  1970 and 1979 da,                                                               inld   ehla idnria., or otho   ygrnwhich cyorste  ird.peod-
Per uo. k. agrlrunueal lad - Cnupusod uabove for agiclurlad                               andy  crsdopootmects of ao-udaryintuic.
only;  9ff. 171 and1979 data.                                                          Pup11I- . tah,r cacca - pir.ad uc...ndary  T- Tta  utd-oc  no-o1id In
Pavulain  Age Itrucue(percen).   Childre  (f-la  years), *  rriog-oge  (15-                        prmr   n   nadr   oendvdd by  -cter   of te...bhvr  it the
ho yours), and retired f65 yours and  -nr) uu porc...tagos of mid-you  popc-corsndglel.
lotio; 196. 190. aa  19H  dora                             hdul 1 Oeracyrate(rorcunj -liteate  aults(able to read and unto)
Proulati..n lrhw Dat  (perco..t) - cata1 - Annual1 growh .raro  of total mid-                      asper-cttao  of tota  udclc papa-i-c aged 15 poa.  orAd ovrt
poar ppulationf c  1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-80.
Pcpulotiou ireth Hose(percent) - urban - dAnna1 growh rates of arhac popu-               CONSUMPTION
ltosfar 1950-60, 19U-70. and 1970-h0.                                                                         - unterlmfe  cic....d --latoion)-fougrcascpitatr
Crude firth Rane leer thoanand) - dAun-I Ive births per thausod of mid-you                         coc  setiEg lou. than eight Persocs ;  -ucldeu  ebola..c.c,  crseand
pepulat ioc; 1960. 1970,..ad 19ff data,                                                          nilitary  -ricno.J
trade Death Rtco (per thousan.d) - dAnnal deaths per thousand  of aid-year                       Dadio tRe..oeir  (par thousnEd popultin   -All types of r..ceiver  far radio
populatio;16.17.ad1f   aa                                                                        brodcasts to g.eora IPublic per  h...n.cd of pcplati.n; ccc ud_on
ivona Reproduction  ta r-Avorag   no. ro   auhenasmn   ilber                                       licecuedreeier   -ocuoriesefi  yoad   ehnccita  aoof radio
her c-Ia  r-rdu-tin  peiod if ohopeiacnpreset ag-speIfic  for-                                   uou was in effect; data for c-c- ynaru may cotb hcouaroble nicc
tltracetau        ylp _icoyor arga  dendig it 19f, 197g. and 1990.                           soc ct outrieuabn1iuhrd lico_ieg.
Penily Planning - Acc!Poetor, A=ns  (thuans  -   nul  atr of accoptors                           IV teceicoraj(pe  thusndpcorin   - T  receIver  for hr.. ..d.a tot
afbithovrldevce  nodoc aPcapiosf nainlfamily planning progrm.                             gcalpbic per thnad pouaion; -orladen alicenued TV  -ocelcrn
Pamily  lanoin-Doers(Pacs of narindsemn)    Perconage of saried                              in  cuo..tries and in yec-  ofenraiura.o    f TV nets oa-I ffect.
so-e  of child-hearing age (15-44 yp....  who usbirth-coaira1  device  to                      fesppe  CrclaIn fre  chunndpoplation) -Shoot the  vrg  cir-
all earned wome  in sam  age groop.                                                              culrin o   dil  geea   to             t newpaper'.dfndaa periodical
publircon devoned primarily to retarding geneval new.   L,It is  oeidered
Iloden of Pond Prodution cpnrCapita (1969-71-100) - Indec of Per capita ao-ual                  Cine  A  ..n.a di Atenda-  per Capita per Yoa-HasBed an the ousbor of
peodutiu  of all fon  r       _itins.  Production earludes need and feed and                     rickets  .oId daring the pour. ioclndicgadsiusl... to drive ic   c-ts
isa  calendar you  basin.  Coinditiou covr primary goods (eg.uaraead  -bhile  _nit.
Ineted of noger) whirb aro ndibl  and r-nvatnotrionts  (e.g1. cffee and
ton aro encldod).  Aggrogete pr-donfcio  of  -oh coustry" is hane.d onLABOR FOtCE
national  verage pudoror piIresghlgbn;; 1961-65, 1970. and 1980 data.                  T-tl Labor Fortn (thousan ds) -  oEon...ically acive p               inc. cl.di.g
Per capita sply of I caois(e cn of eov-ets) - Casputed f roe                                       are   Iaread oneeplyd but .nclding h-usei-en  tcudeiu. etc.,
onrgy eqoialoun of nor fond ouppli-es avilable in coun try per ca pine                           coeIo 1poulaton  o   al  aeu  9,finitioi-  in Ivrocccaro   r
prday.  Availbhlo aupplias compoledoetic Prod-atioc, imports lea.                               not comparable;  196 170 and 19ff da.
osport. and  hangesin, anuok.  Her sppliru  -olad  ailfvdses,Female (.rerren) - Female labor frro auperrrcragea~fc  l ar11bor farce.
q-atirto   cod ic fon   rsoen.ing, ard I.ou.. in diurrihution.  OqIre-                          Aeri-oituro (ecn)- labor rorce to fari.9  foren.try, hucting and
msro wer  estiated by PAOl ba..d on physiological ..eeds far nava  acti-                           fishiog au percentage of  .tota  labor forc;i 196 . 1970 and 19f0 data.
city and henIth coaideriognnioeerltemprature  boywiht.aeIdustry (percent) - Labor farce iv  mindn, c_onstruttin.  mccf-tc-isg
adaediutrihurion of  .poplation, an 1aloing 11 percentL for saut  aaoelcrit,aeradgunprccaefcralhrforce
huhod .leve; 1961-61. 19ID andd117 dta.                                                       160,  90ad 1f             a
Per capita sa ly ad pronoin (arom   e   a)-Poci   otn   fprcpt                                  Participation fate  prot -  oal al,ad femle     atiiaino
net supply of foud Pe  da.HtuppN            o   od idfined as above.  Ho-                       acivity ratc  ar   -oI.d scra,ml. ard fealo lahcr for- o
quremets foral  oustrie  etblinhsd hy USDA pro-ida for slei-a                                    per tnage  of total, main and female population of all ag. encoperti-ely;
alloanc  uf 6f gram   of total Prote Iper day nod 20 gram   of auinlan                           1960.,19d~. and 19ff dat.-      hee  rebasedoni-. np partIipatio rae
paueprtein, of which 10 gram  shoud he animel protein.  These ntacd-                            rfesnarssrurreo   h    ouaindn .Pcng time  trd.                               A
ards are lower than thso of 75 aram   of carolcprarein and 23 gram   of                          few act imtos ar   r        t alcnal c cs
anima  pentai  as an averge for the  srdP, prooud by PAD In rho Third                         icoonic .f....dono  Dana - cal  cf popalation  -ndr 15 and 61 and oa
World Pood Scevy; 1961-65. 1970 asd 1977 data,                                                   to the rtota  labor farce. 
Per apir  proois uppy f em aimalandpulse - Prune.in supply of fond de-
rived from animals ad PuleIngasprdy   91-65. 1970 and 1971 data.                            INCOME DISTtRIBUTfIO
Child (acne 1_) Deah Date  re  thonod) - Aon-Ia deaths per thb..saad in                         PercIIeutu  of Pri-ate Incm   (both in cash and kicd) - Dacolnod by  iciho-
age grop 1-4 years. to childeen to this ago 9rauP; Fomesdvlpn ca-                                I per-et. richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent. and pc...osn 40j povc..n
roles darn derived fro  life tables; 1960. 1970 and 19ffr.  dan.' '"                            of house.holds.
5161LTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Life fuectasey at Ninth (Yours)d- Average nuter of yoa-  of life roaming                        The frllowing estiate  aro onryupa lentme -ao  of ponerty level,
anhbt;196.17,n  19ff daa,ad shold ho interpreted wth considerable  oo c io..
Infant MrtalityHose (p tshonoad) - Aonan1 deaths of infats uodar One year                fstianed Absolute Poverty InoeieL.    (           P pEr capita) - orb. aned rural 
of ago per thess-ed live hlrths; 1960, 1970 and 19ff data.                                      absolut  pavey i.ccm   bed  is. that inrm.          oo  babe which A   sl
dr_e r. gage furor (--roo  of nolro)- rtotal,buhur and ruraI - Ne-                                 ntrittiunIly adequate diet puu ... esetta  nn-on   reureeri  not
her of peopl  (total, urban, and ryl   ih :rssnhL   rnm   to oaf                                 off f slo.
votr suPppy (inclado   feastd narfaeo voters or antentod-hat usosotamleatd                    Eatimatd 11aLoelve Povery  om  ine  (US$ Per caPita) -urbao and e.,.I 
voter sah asfthat teem proretod hoechel.a. prns,P           and suis:ry wells) astRa.I rolarno poverty  incme  eve   uon-thirdo  average Per capta
p__rreeao_o  thei  r-eptiwe peps.ia-nm     In an  rbn era  apublic                              peronl inras  uf the cuanrey.' Urhso loe  isdderived f rom rho ruel
fumeteia or   adp.. located sot ac   than 2ff meters fro   a hasan may ha                       leve  with adjastas   fur higher coat of living in. urba  ara.
r.-id .. d as Meing withi  -anoble   c- rros athat he.me.  In rm1s areas                                   ..r.aed  oelaiu  Hlt     Aslute Panartv Incom           ..ns  freat)    ra
rea   -bl  ane-co wm-ad imply that ehe h.--sif. or -.eee  of the hansob.1d                      ad rural-Potn  ofppistia  (urba  uA  rural) eho are "absoone
da net he- so sped a dispropovtgont  pars of the day  is fstnhimg the                             op
Outer. of PeoPle (total, ube  and  rnra) srwed by octre    diopasl a
pee   nmeo   of thoi r empesivo Popssltj_oes.  nreta dimpome may tactda
the nafeda    o  dispool. with oe sltmas  tes_ t_to  I.-  asest
am   mss -voe  by voterb-ham   opera or ih.  -s  of pit privies and  ili-
Pusvalstao poe  homfais - .Ppities divided by ...ase of pentiilg physi-                                                         fne-i. ned Social Dmte Sivifas
aLes qasLifiad from a mdinaL aibsL or   e-rinsety lawe.                                                                         lEa_ic Analysia and Pnan nsgparsmt
PPsesslesda sac Keeiai   P-a     - Pepeltfa   dividd  by  .",m ad p-atiaig                                                                           May 198 2
-im  an  f-ssi   gedse  eem-    -aiuast s=as,pemesino  oem    n
-meimp omeifoem.



-27-                                     ANNEX  I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion    X                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices               31.68      100.0                       3.5                6.3            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14       16.2                      -5.5                5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70       11.7                      -2.1                8.2            8.0
Current Account Balance            -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                       -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added           Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    7.   USS million             UTS$ million    7
Agriculture                        7,825       29         13.5       51           580        58
Industry                           6,827       26          5.2       20        1,313       131
Services                          12,053       45           7.9      29         1,526       152
Total/Average                   26,705      100         26.6      100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Coverment                                Central Government
(Rs billion)             % of CDP                 (Rs billion)             % of CDP
1981/82       1981/B2   1977/78-1981-82           1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                     51.2           15.9           15.8                39.0          12.1             12.4
Current Expenditures                44.4           13.8           14.1                34.1          10.6             10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8            2.1            1.7                 4.9            1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures                 27.0            8-.4           9.3                21.2           6.6              7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3            2.0            2.8                 6.3           2.0              2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Quasi Money                          33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             17.5      22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1      48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7      50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as X GDP                 29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70-100)           211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                          23.6       8.6      11.3       6.3       6.7       9.3      13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6      25.6      11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          26.3      17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6      18.5      16.0      20.4
*L      /a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



-28-
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(tUSS million)                                 N!RCrANDISE FXPORTS (AVERACIPh 1978179-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979180  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                        USS million          2
Exports of Goods, NIFS             1,404    1,651    2,107    2,955    3,461             2,966        Raw Cotton                      260.5           11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              2,877    3,297    4,485    5,709    6.466             6,613        Cotton Yarn                    11.3             8.0
Cotton Cloth                    230.4          10.2
Resource Cap (deficit - -)        -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005            -3,847        Rice                            382.7           17.4
All Other Commodities    -   19j.9             52.9
Interest Pavoents                   -172      -183      -261      -285      -357          -453          Total  2C261.8 9
Workers  Remittances                  578    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,097            2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)            15        62       134       151       274          345                 EXTER7AL DEBT, DECEMBEX 31, 1981
Net Transfers                          ..        ..        ..
Balance on Current Account        -1,052      -601   -1,110   -1,140        -991       -1,530
Public Debt, IncludinR Guaranteed          8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment              ..        ..        ..        ..        ..           ..        Nonguaranteed Private Debt  e_
Net MILT Borrowing
Disbursements                      961      8R1        813    1,134        956         1,102          total Outstanding and Disbursed          8,813.9
Amortization                      -175      -122      -235      -310      -516          -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR I'MI/82 If
Sub-Total                          786       719       578       824       440           610                                                  Percentage
Transactions vith  IMFT                44        41      -14         78       315          358
Pubile Debt, Includint r~usranteed           12.2
other Items n.e.i. /c                  24       163       238       600       527          364        Non-gimaranteed Private Debt
Increase In Reserves *-l             198      -322       308      -362      -291           19R          Total                                      12.2
Cross Reserves (year end)/d           372      694        386       748    1,039           841        IRnrDTDA RFSDING (DEC'M'FR 198I) (MSS millin)
IBRD    IDA
Official Cold (year end;
million ounces)                    1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8        1.8          1.8        Outstanding and Disbursed              310.1   908.8
Undisbursed                             32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Matera1ls
Petroleum Imports                    413       497       539    1,237    1,602           1,683                                                             -'
Petroleum Exports                     27        63        61       1l8        160          185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11. 1972    Msy 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982              January 8-Atag. 31. 1982 Average
US$ - Re 4.7619                USS - Rs 11.00                    USS - Rs 9.90                        USS - Rs 11.46
Rsl - USS0.2100                Rol - USSO.0909                   Rol - USS0.1010                      Rs  - 0.087
/a  Government estimate.
7S Including Trust Fund.
7T   Including net short-term borrowins and errors and omissions.
7d  Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
We  Private debt is negligible.
/f  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
/g  Since January R, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not aival-able.



ANNEX II
-29-                       Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Miarch 31, 1983)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                    (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                 Undis-
Number     Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a    686.7  32.0    851.3/e
620       1976   Seed Project                             --              23.0    6.2
630       1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --              26.6    3.3
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --              14.0    6.7
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development            --    10.0      --       8.1
1372)     1977   Railways                                35.0            --       0.4
684 )     1977   Railways                                 --              25.0    0.2
678        1977   Third Education                         --              15.0    5.8
751       1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --               3.0    1.2
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation          --               70.0   68.4
755       1978   Hazara Forestry                          --               1.7    1.4
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --              12.5    6.9
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development              --              30.0    0.2
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   57.9
892        1979   Primary Education                       --              10.0    7.6
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0    9.0
957       1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP IV)   --                  30.0    3.7
968       1980   Third WAPDA Power                       --               45.0   30.5
974       1980   Third Highway                           --               50.0   35.8
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development            --              40.0   10.1
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                     --               25.0   24.6
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                        --               30.0   29.2
1157/d    1981   Grain Storage                           --               32.0   31.7
1158/d    1981   Agricultural Research                   --               24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                --               41.0   36.2
11867T    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)        --               30.0   27.5
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                40.0            --     40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                   60.0            --      2.1
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                --     37.7
1239/b /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                 40.0   40.0
1243/h Id 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         --               14.0   14.0
12567w    1982   Technical Assistance                    --                7.0    6.4
12787d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                --               50.0   49.9
2218/b    1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0            --     12.0
Total                                                    872.2  42.0  1,609.1  638.7
of which has been repaid                              461.8   0.6      32.8
Total now outstanding                                    410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                       --      --      --      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                         410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Total undisbursed                                         92.3   8.1    538.3  638.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
lb  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
Id  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Disbursed amounts are computed at the market rate on dates of
disbursements.
/e  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



ANNEX II
-30-                        Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products               0.63     --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75     --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing              --      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980     Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        19.58    0.84      20.42
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63       6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.38       2.78
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals        29.00    1.82      30.82
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70     --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.05     --        4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        88.65    1.55      90.20
Total Gross Commitments                    171.76   11.38    183.14
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               123.72    1.02    124.74
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           48.04   10.36      58.40
Undisbursed (including participants)    103.43    0.34    103.77



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10,
1978; Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 will
be completed in 1983; construction of a second power plant with four units is
in progress. All Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to
administer the Tarbela Development Fund.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Of the four processing plants in the project, one has been completed,
one should be operational within a few months, and the remaining two require
reconstruction of defective portions of buildings before equipment can be
installed. Field activities have been satisfactory in Punjab but slow in
Sind.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
All major works have been contracted but construction hold-ups have
caused delays in project completion. Detailed action plans to improve
operational and financial performance have been agreed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-32-                             ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to initial
delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and diffir2ulties in
installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys and
extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment is
being procured to improve the rate of collector and lateral drain
installation.
Loan No. 1366-T         Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Following reformulation of the project in June 1982, project progress
is now encouraging. Work on remodeling and expanding the Lahore Milk Plant
is on schedule and the the plant is expected to be commissioned by September
1983. Construction of and equipping the Punjab Livestock Development Board
(PLDB) training center is complete; teaching staff are in place and training
courses for Village Livestock Association members and PLDB extension staff
are scheduled to start soon.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum
improvements have been satisfactorily carried out, the revised staff
development and expert services programs are nearly completed and almost all
civil works and equipment procurement have been completed. Construction of
agricultural training institutes at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan is
progressing. At Sind Agricultural University, construction is behind by
about one year due to initial delays in appointment of project implementation
staff. However, no problems are foreseen in completing all civil works
before the closing date.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Te^hnical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and the lack of a decision on upgrading field
assistants have caused implementation problems. There has been little
progress with the fodder/forage component, but the vegetable seed, maize
production, service laboratory, training and apple production components are
proceeding satisfactorily.



-33-                              ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule,
significant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Contracts have been
awarded for construction of main canals and for supply of electrification
equipment for transmission lines.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inventory and the
pulping tests for chir pine have been completed.  However, on the basis of a
forest resource assessment study, the immediate development of an
economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Mfillion Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date:  September 12, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Although the project is behind schedule, progress has recently been
made in staff recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction
work. Implementation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages
have been strengthened. The project staff has been given a special
allowance, and steps are being taken to recruit consultants.
Credit No. 877          Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and other
problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is assisting
WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in preparing
subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about two years
behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the final designs
and tender documents for the project. Some contracts have been awarded.



ANNEX II
-34-                              Page 6
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have
been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a comprehensive
proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected to be completed
shortly.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Critical senior staff has been recruited, implementation of the T&V
extension system started, and consultants have been appointed to assist in
qualitative improvement of field extension and adaptive research.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Funds for farm mechanization are fully disbursed and for diversified
lending should be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.  Implenentation ,f the
agricultural engineering training component in Punjab and NWFP is about 18
months behind schedule.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Due to some initial delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of
the project is one year behind schedule. Procurement and construction
targets for substations and transmission lines are progressing well.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 IIillion Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation coatracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts.  Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical
assistance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance.



ANNEX II
-35-                              Page 7
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
As of April 1983 US$37 million had been authorized for 29
sub-projects, with US$30 million disbursed. PICIC's portfolio problems
continue although rescheduling efforts are underway and collections during
1982 exceeded anticipated targets.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project has made good progress in equipment procurement, final
designs for rehabilitation of existing centers and construction of new
centers, especially in Punjab. A large-scale instructor training program is
underway and skill standards for a number of trades have been approved by the
National Training Boar(l.  The National Training Board Ftnd, the Provincial
Training Boards and the National Training Development Inistitute have been
established, although staff appointments have been slow.
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
To date, some 20% of the Credit has been committed and about 5%
disbursed. Construction of the service centers is nearing completion, with
expected operation in May/June 1983.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfactorily
although there have been delays in hiring consultants and staff, and in
making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Mlillion Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: April 29, 1982; Closing Date:
*                                   December 31, 1986
The construction of an office/laboratory block and a hostel at the
National Agricultural Research Centre is scheduled for completion in July
1983. Designs for the provincial headquarters building have been prepared.
The contract for training and technical assistance has been negotiated with
FAO. New research programs have been started.



ANNEX II
-36-                              Page 8
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is basically on schedule, with physical achievements
generally in line with appraisal targets.
Credit No. 1186        Second Industrial Development Banl; of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
June 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Utilization of funds is progressing satisfactorily.  To date, a total
of 47% of the proceeds has been committed and just under 10% disbursed.
Loan No. 2122          Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 14, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
All cofinancing arrangements have been finalized. The ADB loan was
declared effective in March 1983 and the KfW loan should be signed shortly.
Procurement actions are underway.
Loan No. 2166           Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 2172          Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on most components has been satisfactory. Hiring of
consultants and procurement is generally on schedule. The Multan
rehabilitation component has suffered some delay because of technical
difficulties.
Credit No. 1239        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-37-                               Page 9
Credit No. 1243         Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit
(US$14 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: January 5, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
Four minor irrigation schemes have been prepared to detailed
engineering level and actions are being expedited to tender works and
initiate construction activities.  The remaining schemes are slightly behind
schedule. After some initial delays, project staff and consultants are being
mobilized. Procurement of vehicles and equipment is also underway.
Credit No. 1256         Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Disbursements are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1278         Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Itillion Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date:
September 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Physical implementation of the project has started and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2218           Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project:
US$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



-38-
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN;
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
6 months
(b)  Agency which has prepared project:
ADBP
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank/IDA and first
Bank/IDA mission to consider the project:
September 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 7, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 22, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
August 31, 1983
Section II:   Special Bank and IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Condition of Effectiveness
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and ADBP
(paragraph 66).



-39-                               ANNEX III
Other Conditions
(a) ADBP to promote the sale of primary tillage implements
as well as the use of ballast with tractors (paragraph
50);
(b) ADBP to direct 70% of all farm development lending in
FY84 to farmers with 25 ac or less and 75% in FY85.
One-third of this lending volume would go to farmers
with 12.5 ac or less (paragraph 55);
(c)  ADBP to launch a sector survey to analyze the impact
of farm mechanization (paragraph 61);
(d) ADBP to take the necessary steps by October 31, 1983,
to initiate modifications to its collateral requirements
in order to accept assets created out of loans as full
collateral, without the land mortgage requirements of
pre-existing assets (paragraph 63); and
(e) ADBP to reach recovery rates of 70% by June 30, 1984,
and 75% by June 30, 1985 (paragraph 71).






IBRD 16970R
72°        U. S. S.R.            MAY 1983
PAKISTAN                                                         )
-~~~CHINA
FIFTH  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT y,y  _.. >
BANK PROJECT                                                                          , "
-36'                                                                              ~ 
Rezional Offices with                                         (
disbursements in 1982/ 83 of:                                  r (                    i<     :-
Below  Rs 5M
Rs 5M  to below  Rs 1OM                    Sc ?                                                 Approximate
,'/-$      1       )~~~  Line ofControl
RslOM  to below  Rs 20M                                                              r        .. . /
N   W  F/R    C rMvo/orobod
f                                                Rs 20M  or more                                                      bataobad,,Abt             JA/v//olJ
0 Head Office                                           i% e-/SZA M)ABgAL                             AND
Provincial Boundaries                                                    Raowa/pmdi          KASA/P
International Boundaries                      a                                  R ."N.7.
I        '/      --  ,      ~~~~~~~~~Guq/rsewa/sn,   s
A._    - A F G H A N I S T A N                                      .         .    /ood                                     iahr
lemh,               /      Llhr
)      <- ~   aSS '< ~' ~                fai-n/od    Li ?,
( / <~~~~~~Deo                                            Sahiwoni .-
<)Ghazl  Mn/toh-art
(Itc
Q uetta                                rh a                     ,       5
Soha-hoo/pur   /
'N,              B A  U C HI S r A N                                                                      I N D I A
-28'                                                                       / /SukAu  ,                                          .                 35j
Khuzdar  r       - '\> ' '>.28
ISLAMIC Ja,
REP. OF F-.
IRAN             J                                       /                        ( )
K rN\               )              Atowobshohak   )                 0        100       200       300
/ r                 V 4   P   -                            K |KLOM E T ER S
Mirpu, Khas
Th.is ae has beei prepared by
lHyderobad                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~The Wo,rld Bank's staff -xotoiWay
7   Karachi                                                 f. 55; the o-ei-ence a the
readers and.i excl-srly for the
nera-l- us f The World Bans
and the Interna.onal Fnance
Corporabon The d-nmisatio-s
34'                                             a,. ______    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.  u~~~~sed-ad the o-odaries show
Arab          a                                                                                          " 5  Bah of The World Bark and the  24-
,nterhnatonl Financ  Corportion.
.       oany oudpientn the legaf status
tanterritor or -any-
4  62                                      endorsemat nr acceptance o
64-                                      680                                      72°



