OFFiCIAL
OICIN       LOAN NUMBER 2305 PAK
DOCUMENTs     CREDIT NUMBER 1380 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Agricultural Development Bank Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                   30        , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2305 PAK
CREDIT NUMBER 1380 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT ,
AGREEMENT, dated            30       , 1983, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, actig by its President (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined) by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Pro-
ject and by the Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter de-
fined) the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty-four million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,300,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent prac-
ticable, that the proceeds of the Credit providad for in the
Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expendi-
tures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
twenty-three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 23,200,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(E) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Coopera-
ting Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association
is prepared to accept such appointment;
(F) the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (hereinafter called ADBP) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to ADBP the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and


﻿WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ADBP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan end Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein s'ub-
ject, however, to the following modification thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions), namely
that paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the following
substituted therefor: "11. The: term Project means the Fifth
Agricultural Development Bank Project, as described in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
of even date with the Loan Agreement and as the description
thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement among the;
Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated June 30, 1980, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and
all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Credit" means the credit provided for in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II.
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten
million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Cre-
dit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
fee equivalent to twenty-four thousand nine hundred and thirty-
eight dollars ($24,938).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one


﻿half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Inter-
est Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
e-pressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar yeat.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall rep.iy the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Articles III and IV of, and Schedules 1, 2 and 3 to, the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, as such Articles and Schedules may be


﻿-5-
amended from time to time, are incorporated in, and made a part
of, this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set fo-.tb herein; provided, however, that for the purposes
of this Agreement: (i) the reference to the Credit in said Arti-
cles shall be deemed to be a reference to the Loan; and (ii) the
reference to the Development Credit Agreement in said Articles
shall be deemed to be a reference to this Agreement.
(b) As long as the Bank has not given notice to the con-
trary to the Borrower and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall have not terminated prior to the termination of
this Agreement: (i) the obligations of the Borrower to consult
with and to furnish or cause to be furnished, information, docu-
ments, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall
be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obliga-
tions is rendered to the Association; (ii) the obligations of the
Bank to consult with and to furnish information to the Borrower
shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled
by the Association; and (iii) all actions taken (including the
giving of approvals or the granting of waivers) by the Associa-
tion pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed
to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement and in the name and on behalf of both the
Association and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) It is the poiicy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to :he Bank secure the principal of, and


﻿-6-
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization   fund, or similar    functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the events set forth in Section 5.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the events set forth in Section 5.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date c-,/kfj           is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12. 4 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the
Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                                   Telex:
ECONOMIC                          ECDIV - 05 -634
Islamabad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
So, th Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
%rtization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1989
through   March 1, 2003                     335,000
On   September 1, 2003                           285,000


﻿- 10 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3o04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                         0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                   0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before                   1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof' I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this - day of M         , 1983.
FOR SECRETARY


