OFFICIAL
DOCIUl           LOAN NUMBER 2305 PAK
EN TS   CREDIT NUMBER 1380 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Agricultural Development Bank Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPWENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    3         , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2305 PAK
CREDIT NUMBER 1380 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       30   , 1983, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting y its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower h- requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance toward the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank agrees to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to ten million dol-
lars ($10,000,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan (as hereinafter
defined) provided for in the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter
defined) are made;
(D) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
twenty-three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 23,200,000) to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund
Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(E) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Coop-
erating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Associa-
tion is prepared to accept such appointment;
(F) the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (hereinafter called ADBP) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to ADBP the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;


﻿- 2 -
(G) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation, the Bank and ADBP, ADBP has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the Project;
(H) Italian Government is considering the possibility of
making available a loan in an amount equivalent to twenty million
U.S. dollars for the financing of farm machinery and equipment;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Association, the Bank and ADBP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions) namely, that paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is
deleted and the following substituted therefor:
"9. The term "Project" means the project for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Development Credit
Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from
time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and the Bank."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "acres" and "ac" mean irrigated acres (one acre shall
be deemed to be two non-irrigated acres);


﻿-3-
(b) "ADBP" means the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan established under the Agricultural Development Bank
Ordinance in 1961 by the Borrower;
(c)  "Bank Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
apDlicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Bank Loan" means the Loan provided for in the Loan
Agreement;
(e) "emergency lending" means lending carried out on the
Borrower's instructions;
(f) "farmer" means those persons whose principal occupation
is in, and whose income is mainly derived from, agricultural
pursuits;
(g)  "medium- and long-term loans" means loans with maturi-
ties of eighteen months or more;
(h) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and ADBP of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(i) "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(j) "recovery rate" means ratio of principal and interest
collected to total demand, where demand is the aggregate of over-
dues and amounts falling due during a period;
(k)  "short-term loans" means loans with maturities less
than eighteen months;
(1) "Special Drawing Right" and "SDR" mean a special draw-
ing right allocated by the International Monetary Fund, as valued
from time to time by the International Monetary Fund;
(m)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADBP referred to in Section
4.01 (b);


﻿(n) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement; and
(o) "Loan Account" means the loan account establ-shed under
the Bank Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to forty-four million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannuoaly on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. "ae Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1993, and ending March 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit, the Bank Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, the Bank,
Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the
Credit, the amount of the Bank Loan and the amount of the Fund
Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account, the Loan Account
and the Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of this Agre ement and with the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation may be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement between the Borrower, the Association, the
Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account, the Loan Account and from the
Fund Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
and the Fund shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Bank Loan
and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit, the Bank Loan or the Fund Loan, the
Borrower shall deliver to the Association a written application
in such form and containing such statements and agreements as the


﻿- 6 -
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications
for withdrawal, -ith the necessary documentation as hereinafter
provided shall, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to
expenditures for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satis-
fy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account, the Loan Account or the Fund
Loan Account the amount applied for and that such amount is to be
used only for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. With respect to the proceeds of the Credit,
the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan allocated under Categories (1)
(a), (1) (b), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a), (5) (a), (6) and (7) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, each such application by the
Borrower for withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to with-
draw funds from the Credit Account, the Loan Account and from the
Fund Loan Account, and the funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such
application shall be apportioned by the Association, as nearly as
practicable in the circumstances, between the Credit and the Bank
Loan, and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 67%:33% or such other
ratio as shall be agreed between the Association, the Bank and
the Fund. The proceeds of the Fund Loan will not be withdrawn
against Categories (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (5) (b) of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account, Loan
Account to or on the order of the Borrower in
accordance with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement, Loan Agreement; and/or


﻿-7-
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the por-
tion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and Loan Account in the amount set forth
in such notice, and that the portion to be with-
drawn from the Fund Loan Account in the amount set
forth in such notice is eligible for payment by
the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Bank Loan or the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or
cancelled, applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals
shall be deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount
applied for from the Credit Account, the Loan Account or the Fund
Loan Account only, and the provisions of this Article III shall
continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited
or to be credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or
cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the
Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Association that any such special commitment shall,
once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation
on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the  Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Chairman of ADBP or his nominee is de-
signated as representative of the Borrower for the purpose of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the


﻿- 8 -
provisions of Article III of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions for expenditures in respect of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ADBP to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ADBP to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan allocated under Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, to ADBP under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADBP under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association, and
which shall include those outlined in the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interest
of the Borrower, the Association and the Fund and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to assist in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or caused to be employed con-
sultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Upon the award of any contract for services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿- 9 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to enable ADBP to:
(a) include movable as well as immovable property as occu-
rity for the loans it extends;
(b) repay funds lent by the Borrower to ADBP during the
implementation of the Project at a rate which provides ADBP with
a spread of 7% per annum to: (i) cover all its operating expendi-
tures and charges, including taxes, if any, and interest payments
on borrowings; and (ii) make provision for bad debts and main-
tain such provisions at a ratio to total overdues satisfactory
to the Association. The Borrower shall cause ADBP to review, by
June 30, 1984, the spread and furnish the results of the review
to the Association and the Fund for their consideration and
approval; and
(c) extend loans only after appraisal is carried out in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, as
outlined in Part B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) provide additional funds for implementing the Project
on terms and conditions as outlined in the Schedule to the Pro-
ject Agreement; and
(b) not require ADBP to undertake emergency lending, ex-
cept: (i) in the event of a major natural calamity; and (ii) as a
disbursement agent for funds provided by the Borrower for the
purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, as soon as it is deter-
mined that lending rates charged by ADBP are not at positive
levels in real terms, take necessary measures to achieve levels
satisfactory to the Association and the Fund.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall increase.,ADBP's paid up
capital as and when needed to keep ADBP's debt/equity ratio at
7:1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by ADBP,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by ADBP;.


﻿- 10 -
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
loan agreement or contract, on the date and to the
extent that it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
agreement or contract, and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee is entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "equity" means ADBP's capital, retained
earnings, surplus and reserves (including any
revaluation reserve but excluding any reserve
allocated to cover specific liabilities); and
(iv) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of ex-
change at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause ADBP to (a) undertake
a write-off exercise satisfactory to the Association by Septem-
ber 30, 1983; (b) establish by December 31, 1983, in accordance
with sound banking principles, a permanent write-off policy
acceptable to the Association and apply such policy at the end of
each financial year; and (c) by May 31, 1984, submit to the
Association a report on the impact of such measures on actual
overdues for FY83 and projected overdues for FY84 and FY85.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ADBP shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of ADBP under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ADBP will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(c) the ADBP Ordinance, 1961 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a
way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of ADBP to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ADBP or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan (including the
Fund Loan) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
'Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the  obligations   of  the  Borrower  under   this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5eO1 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and ADBP.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of ADBP, and is
legally binding upon ADBP in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower ane ADBP, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and ADBP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date               :2q /    3  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sektion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified
in Section 6.03 of this Agreement or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund
Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions,
the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to
remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties
thereunder, subject to such modifications of the Development
Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and the Fund for such purposes.


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms before the Development
Credit Agreement shall. have terminated, or (ii) the Association
shall notify the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating
Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the
provisions of this Agreement shall, to the extent that they
relate to the Fund Loan, forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division., is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                         ECDIV - 05 - 634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By     K4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByS          Ovbl          0
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit the Bank Loan and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Bank Loan and the
Fund Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the
Bank Loan the Fund Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of                 Amount of
the Bank     Amount of    the Fund
Loan       the Credit     Loan
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated      % of
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   Expendi-
in Dollars     in SDR       in SDR     tures to
Category     Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed
(1) Tractors                                          17% of
for farm-                                        amount dis-
ers with                                         bursed by
25 ac or                                         ADBP prior
less:                                            to the
approval of
the Fund
Loan and
thereafter
26% of such
amounts
(a) less      720,000    3,000,000    1,860,000
than
30 hp
(b) other   4,105,062   17,100,000   10,390,000
(2) Farm
Imple-
ments:


﻿- 16 -
Amount of                 Amount of
the Bank     Amount of    the Fund
Loan       the Credit     Loan
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated      % of
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   Expendi-
in Dollars     in SDR       in SDR     tures to
Category     Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed
(a) farm-   1,200,000    4,800,000    2,970,000  17% of
ers                                          amount dis-
own-                                         bursed by
ing                                          ADB prior
25 ac                                        to the
or                                           approval of
less                                         the Fund
Loan there-
after 26%
of such
amounts
(b) farm-     450,000    1,90a,000              17% of
ers                                          amount dis-
owning                                       bursed by
more                                         ADBP
than
25 ac
(3) Private
minor
irriga-
tion:
(a) farm-     800,000    3,00,000    2,230,000  17% of
ers                                          amount dis-
owning                                       bursed by
25 ac                                        ADBP prior
or less                                      to the
approval
of the
Fund Loan
and there-
after 26%
of such
amounts


﻿- 17 -
Amount of                 Amount of
the Bank     Amount of    the Fund
Loan       the-Credit     Loan
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated       % of
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   Expendi-
in Dollars     in SDR       in SDR      tures to
Category     Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed
(b) farm-     300,000    1,400,000                17% of
ers                                           amount dis-
owning                                        bursed by
more                                          ADBP
than
25 ac
(4) Livestock:
(a) farm-     700,000    3,200,000    1,860,000   17% of
ers                                           amount dis-
owning                                        bursed by
25 ac                                        ADBP prior
or less                                       to the
approval of
the Fund
Loan and
thereafter
26% of such
amounts
(b) farm-     300,000    1,100,000                17% of
ers                                           amount dis-
owning                                       bursed by
more                                          ADBP
than
25 ac
(5) On-farm
devel-
opment:


﻿- 18 -
Amount of                 Amount of
the Bank     Amount of    the Fund
Loan       the Credit     Loan
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated      % of
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   Expendi-
in Dollars     in SDR       in SDR     tures to
Category     Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed
(a) farm-   1,000,000    4,300,000    2,600,000  17% of
ers                                          amount dis-
owning                                       bursed by
25 ac                                        ADBP prior
or less                                      to the
approval of
the Fund
Loan and
thereafter
26% of such
amounts
(b) farm-     400,000    1,700,000              17% of
ers                                          amount dis-
owning                                       bursed by
more                                         ADBP
than
25 ac
(6) Vehicles                  1,400,000      740,000  100% of
and equip-                                       foreign ex-
ment                                             penditures;
60% of
local ex-
penditures
(7) Technical                   560,000     370,000
assistance
and train-
ing:
(a) Special-                                     100%
ists and
training
abroad


﻿- 19 -
Amount of                 Amount of
the Bank     Amount of    the Fund
Loan       the Credit     Loan
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated      % of
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   Expendi-
in Dollars     in SDR       in SDR     tures to
Category     Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed
(b) Local                                        75%
train-
ing
(8) Fee             24,938                           Amount due
under Sec-
tion 2.05
of Bank
Loan Agree-
ment
(9) Unallo-
cated                      240,000      180,000
TOTAL  10,000,000   44,300,000   23,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that the
proceeds of the Credit and Bank Loan shall not be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any
category decreases or increases, the Association and the Bank


﻿- 20 -
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Associa-
tion and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:- (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(i) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agree-
ment;
(ii) expenditures made in respect of Category (1) (a)
until the Borrower shall have issued import
licenses for at least three models of four wheel
tractors below 30 hp; and
(iii) expenditures made after June 30, 1984 until pro-
gress satisfactory to the Association shall have
been made in ADBP's loan recovery program.
(b) no withdrawals shall be made from the Fund Loan Account
with respect to expenditures relating to farmers owning more than
25 ac.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
Bank Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association or Bank, as the case may
be, has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or
Bank loan, as the case may be, then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association or the Bank, as
the case may be, may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association or
the Bank, as the case may be, are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, shall
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in
any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or


﻿- 21 -
referred to in this Agreement or the Loan Agreement, as the case
may be, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Bank loan, as the case may be,
and the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, under
this Agreement or the Loan Agreement, as the case may be, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or the
Bank Loan, as the case may be, as, in the reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Bank Loan, as the case may be.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project has two principal objectives, firstly providing
financial support to the FY84 and FY85 medium and long-term
lending programs of ADBP, secondly the further strengthening of
ADBP to make it a sound and effective lending institution. The
Project includes the following parts:
Part A:   Farm Development Loans
Provision of loans for: (i) tractors to farmers owning
25 ac or less; (ii) agricultural implements; (iii) pri-
vate minor irrigation, including power connection (when
applicable), spring water utilization and the repair or
rehabilitation of existing minor irrigation equipment;
(iv) livestock, including dairy animals (buffalos,
cattle), construction for sheds, milking equipment and
working capital for fodder production and feed; and (v)
on-farm development, including, inter alia, land grad-
ing and levelling, construction and improvement of
water courses at farm level, orchard development,
afforestation, poultry and other livestock development,
grain storage, bee-keeping sericulture, and cottage
industries, including those suited to women.
Part B:   Institutional Assistance
1.   Strengthening ADBP by the provision of about 64 man-
months of consultants, including one agricultural
economist and one agricultural credit specialist; one
ground water engineer; computer consultants; consul-
tants for development of small farmer technology; and
consultancy arrangements for monitoring and evaluation
purposes and supervising field demonstrations of farm
machinery and other activities.
2.   Foreign and local training of about 20 officials from
headquarters and regions, about 10 branch managers and
about 30 mobile credit officers.
3.   Provision of related vehicles and equipment, including
about 100 four-wheel-drive vehicles, 70 with short
and 30 with long wheel base for ADBP's headquarters,


﻿- 23 -
regional offices and branches, two 40-seat buses for
demonstration field days, 10 mini-computers for data
processing at the regional level, video equipment for
training and demonstration purposes, and miscellaneous
equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and vehicles
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loan and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and vehicles to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, vehicles and equipment should be
grouped in procurement packages with estimated values exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000 each, in such a manner as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight


﻿- 25 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import tP--es on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 26 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All items financed by ADBP loans under Part A of the Project
shall be purchased through normal commercial channels.
2.   Vehicles and equipment that cannot be grouped in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.3 hereinabove, may be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for certain miscellaneous equipment and vehicles
with values not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 for each con-
tract, may be purchased through normal commercial channels after
solicitation of at least three price quotations; provided that
the aggregate expenditure for items so purchased shall not exceed
the equivalent of $250,000.
4.   Mini-computers in order to be compatible with existing
equipment may be purchased from the original suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in


﻿- 27 -
the said documents or procedures as the Association shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Sche-
dule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of    m  k-
198,.
FOR SECRETARY


