Document of                      ILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3093-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
YACDMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES SOCIEDAD DEL ESTADO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
REFINERY CONVERSION PROJECT
June 17, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1, 1981)
Currency Unit             =  Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1                      -  $a 3,190
US$1 million              =  $a 3,190 million
$a 1 million              =  US$313
$a 1,000                  =  US$0.313
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Barrel (bbl) of Crude
Oil (0.85 Specific
Gravity/35°API)               =  0.135 Metric Ton
1 Barrel (bbl)                     =  0.159 Cubic Meter
1 British Thermal Unit (Btu)       =  0.252 Kilocalories
I Cubic Foot (cu ft)               =  0.028 Cubic Meter
I Standard Cubic Foot (SCF)
of Natural Gas                =  1,000 Btu6
1 Metric Ton of Crude Oil          =  44.4 x 10  Btu
I Mile                             =  1.609 Kilometers
I Gallon                           =  3.785 Liters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
bpd                           Barrels Per Day
FCC                           Fluid Catalytic Cracker
FWI                           Foster Wheeler International
GdE                           Gas del Estado
IGB                           International Competitive Bidding
IRR                           Internal Rate of Return
LPG                           Liquified Petroleum Gas
TOE                           Tons of Oil Equivalent
YCF                           Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales
YPF                           Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
REFINERY CONVERSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad
del Estado (YPF)
Guarantor:           The Argentine Republic
Amount:              US$200 million
Terms:               14 years, including 3 1/2 years of grace at
standard interest.
Guarantee Fee:       1%
Project
Description:         The project would assist YPF to redress the imbalance
in the product slate of its two main refineries - La
Plata and Lujan de Cuyo. The project's main components
include: (a) a refinery conversion scheme to convert
annually a total of about 4.2 million tons (28 million
barrels) of fuel oil from the La Plata and Lujan de Cuyo
refineries to about 3.9 million tons (26 million barrels)
of higher-value distillates and coke; (b) a plant operations
improvement program; (c) a financial management improvement
program; (d) a training program; and (e) an industrial
energy audit of the major industrial enterprises in
Argentina.  The project enabies Argentina to reduce
imports of light and middle distillates; it would also
strengthen YPF's internal management and help increase
operational efficiency. The project faces no major risks,
although possible commissioning problems and difficulties
in initially attaining and maintaining a high operating
rate cannot be'ruled out.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Cost:                           Local             Foreign          Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
I.   Refinery Conversion Base Cost        251.8                228.7          480.5
Physical Contingencies                25.2                22.9           48.1
Price Contingencies                  116.3                69.6          185.9
Working Capital                       20.0                 2.4            22.4
Interest during Construction             -                85.8           85.8
Sub-Total                      413.3                409.4          822.7
II. Plant Operation Improvement
Program                               24.0                26.0           50.0
III. Financial Management
Improvement Program                    1.0                 1.0             2.0
IV.  Training Program                       0.5                  1.0            1.5
V.   Industrial Energy Audit                0.2                  2.0            2.2
Total                          439.0                439.4          878.4
Financing Plan:                           Local              Foreign          Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
IBRD                                   -                 200.0          200.0
YPF/Government                       257.4                  -           257.4
Foreign Commercial Sources           181.6               239.4          421.0
439.0               439.4          878.4
Estimated
Disbursements:          Bank FY            82          83          84          85
------------US$ Million--------…
Annual             14          46         100          40
Cumulative         14          60         160         200
Rate of Return:    48%
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3264-AR, June 15, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES SOCIEDAD DEL ESTADO
FOR A REFINERY CONVERSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) with the guarantee of The
Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$150 million to help finance
a refinery conversion project. The loan would have a term of fourteen
years, including three and one-half years grace, with interest at 9.6%
per annum. The Government of Argentina would charge YPF a guarantee fee
equivalent to one percent of the interest charged on the Bank loan. US$2.0
million would be on-lent to the Government's Secretariat of Fuels for the
Industrial Energy Audit Program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum (No. 2988-AR) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in August 1980. An economic mission visited
Argentina in November 1980; its findings have been incorporated in this
report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. A special report on
the impact of the Government's stabilization and reform policies on the
private sector is under preparation.
Background
3.        Argentina is a semi-industrialized country with a per capita income
in 1979 of US$2,280, a sizeable middle class and a fairly even distribution
of income. Postwar GDP growth has averaged 3.5% in an economy which has
been subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies to restrictive stabilization programs have
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s, when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government pursued an ambitious public
investment program. Large increases in public expenditures, nominal wages and
credit resulted in strong growth of domestic output, while maintenance of
fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an intensi-
fication of domestic social and political conflict. Acceleration of the
wage-price spiral propelled inflation to over 300% in 1975 and an annual rate
of about 800% in early 1976. A rapidly increasing foreign debt and a drastic
fall in foreign exchange reserves brought the country close to defaulting on
its external obligations.
1/   The section on The Economy is identical to that in the President's Report
for the Oil and Gas Credit Project, dated June 17, 1981.



- 2-
Stabilization Efforts 1976-1978
4.        The new administration, which took office in March 1976, had, as
its initial objectives, strengthening the balance of payments, restructuring
the external debt and preventing hyper-inflation. The balance of payments
improved as soon as export taxes were reduced and capital flows were freed.
Monetary and fiscal policies, supported by wage controls, succeeded in bringing
down the rate of inflation from 780% during the year ending in April 1976 to
150% a year later. No further progress was made, however, in reducing inflation
during the remainder of 1977 and 1978. At the same time output fluctuated
greatly. After recovering rapidly from the 1975-1976 recession, growth came
to a halt in late 1977 when credit restrictions and record high interest rates
resulted in a drop in investment.
5.        External sector policies introduced in 1976 immediately produced
favorable export results, while imports were held down by two recessions.
As a consequence, resource surpluses of US$1.9 billion and US$2.8 billion were
registered in 1977 and 1978, respectively. Surpluses on current account were
accompanied by substantial capital inflows. At the beginning, the public
sector was the primary borrower, but starting in 1977 high domestic interest
rates induced the private sector to borrow abroad on an increasing scale.
Although the authorities introduced some controls in 1978, long-term capital
continued to flow into Argentina, and by the end of that year gross foreign
exchange reserves stood at US$5.8 billion, equivalent to 14 months of imports.
Net reserves amounted to US$5.0 billion. This reserve growth permitted a new
approach to inflation control in the framework of an open economy.
The 1979/1980 Program
6.        In late December 1978 the Government announced a stabilization
program with predetermined schedules for adjustment of (i) exchange rates,
(ii) prices of fuels and public sector services, (iii) wages, and (iv) the
monetary base of internal origin; combined with a five-year import tariff
reduction schedule and the formal reopening of the capital market to inter-
national transactions. Most of the adjustments were to follow a declining
trend, designed to dampen inflationary expectations and to limit price
increases of domestic producers. Foreign competition was to reduce the rate
of price increases of domestic tradeable goods to the level determined by
the rate of price increases abroad, and the rate of depreciation of the peso.
It was recognized, however, that possible tariff redundancy and lags in
the adjustment of imports could delay this "convergence" of domestic and
foreign inflation rates.
7.        The new 1979-84 tariff liberalization schedule provided for major
reductions in tariffs on goods produced in Argentina. Shortly after its
announcement, the Government instituted a supplementary program of temporary
tariff reductions for goods whose domestic price increases substantially
exceeded increases in international prices and the rate of devaluation. In
addition, tariffs for all capital goods were eliminated temporarily in order
to facilitate the re-equipment and modernization of Argentine industry.



- 3 -
8.        One notable feature of the stabilization strategy was the secondary
role attributed to monetary policy. The pre-fixing of the peso/dollar rate,
along with the elimination of capital controls, allowed the monetary authori-
ties to influence only the monetary resources originating from domestic sources.
By setting quarterly targets for this variable, the monetary authorities
sought to limit internal public sector borrowing and ensure an adequate supply
of credit to borrowers who had no access to foreign credit sources. Fiscal
policy was also viewed to be of secondary importance insofar as short-term
stabilization objectives were concerned. To mitigate inflationary expectations,
however, and to reach the long-run goal of decreased state intervention, the
authorities were able to decrease the central government's deficit from 2.1%
of GDP in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979. The overall public sector deficit was reduced
from its 1978 level of 5.0% of GDP to 3.5% in 1979.
Results of the Program
9.        Most of the policies outlined above were implemented during the
course of 1979. The exchange rate was moved according to plan, the tariff
reform was applied, public sector prices and tariffs were adjusted as envisaged,
and monetary resources of internal origin expanded only slightly more than
projected. However, total money supply expanded rapidly, because the elimina-
tion of capital controls and the maintenance of the schedule for exchange rate
devaluation, despite high internal inflation, led to heavy capital inflows
amounting to over US$1.5 billion in the first nine months. With a tight labor
market prevailing throughout 1979, nominal wages increased more rapidly than
scheduled, and the Government eliminated the legal limitations on wage increases
in September.
10.       After some adjustment lag, inflation did decelerate.  The general
wholesale price index, which rose at an average rate of 8.3% per month from
January to August 1979, increased by an average of only 3.5% per month from
September 1979 to December 1980, the lowest monthly rates since early 1974.
The deceleration in inflation led to a real depreciation of the exchange
rate, higher real wages and positive real interest rates during the last three
months of 1979.  Initially, domestic price increases were dampened by falling
prices of primary products, but the industrial sector's exposure to interna-
tional competition became the primary factor in late 1979 and 1980. As
expected, the branches most exposed to foreign competition were those which
showed price deceleration most clearly.
11.       With prices of traded goods decelerating, it was expected that the
wage transmission mechanism would cause the prices of non-tradeables to
decelerate as well. However, this did not happen and internal terms of trade
have turned against tradeable goods. In order to survive, exporting and
import-competing firms have been under considerable competitive pressure to
raise productivity and lower costs. While the measures adopted augur well for
increased growth and productivity in the longer term, in the short term, the
firms affected face a profit squeeze and cash-flow problem.



- 4 -
12.       The traditional agricultural sector has responded by intensifying
production with emphasis on cereal crops and oilseed cultivation; as a conse-
quence yields and exports have increased. Producers outside the Pampa (fruits,
wool and cotton), however, are finding it more difficult to compete success-
fully under present circumstances. In industry, success or failure seems
related to the previous degree of protection and the quality of financial
management. Firms have been cutting costs by providing fewer products, and
many have sold subsidiaries to generate badly needed cash for purchasing new
machinery and equipment to modernize production. Some firms have been unable
to cut costs in line with decreasing revenues, in large measure because of
escalating financial costs and an apparent inability to control wages.
13.       Following the elimination of marginal firms, consolidation of
smaller entities and concentration on production in which Argentina has a
comparative advantage, the financial situation of the private sector should
eventually improve. Meanwhile, the weak financial situation of the industrial
sector has affected the portfolios of banks, and several have been forced to
declare bankruptcy. Increased support of the Central Bank and the major
official banks has permitted debt-rescheduling arrangements to be negotiated
for the more viable banks and firms.
14.       During the second semester of 1980 several new measures were adopted
affecting incentives for imports and exports. In addition to acceleration in
the rate of devaluation, a change in the tax structure lowered payroll taxes
and increased the rate of the value added tax. Industrial firms are now
reimbursed the value added taxes when exporting, whereas before they did not
receive reimbursement for labor taxes. That tax change was equivalent to a
de facto devaluation for exports equivalent to between 5 and 15%, depending on
the relative labor costs of each enterprise. As regards industrial imports,
the substitution of domestic payroll taxes by value added taxes, which are
paid by importers as well as by domestic producers, amounted to a devaluation
equivalent to the increase in the value added tax.
15.       Nevertheless, with imports booming and exports slowing down, the
current account surplus of previous years turned into a deficit of about
US$3.5 billion in 1980. Growing expectations that the peso would be devalued
triggered heavy capital outflows. A 10% devaluation in early February
1981 was insufficient to calm foreign exchange markets. Capital outflows
accelerated and rates of interest for short-term peso borrowing reached 80% in
real terms, on an annualized basis during the first quarter of 1981.
Recent Measures of the New Administration
16.       A new administration took office on April 1, 1981.  It moved swiftly
to stabilize foreign exchange and domestic financial markets. The Argentine
peso was devalued by 30% on April 2 and by 30% on June 1, 1981. Subse-
quently, Government intends to adjust the exchange rate according to the
difference between international and domestic inflation. A temporary export
tax of 12% on agricultural exports was imposed, a number of special export
incentives eliminated, export reimbursements for manufactured products were
limited to a maximum of 25% and the maximum customs tariffs reduced to 43%.



As a consequence, the reserve position of the Central Bank improved (estimated
at US$7 billion end April 1981), and rates of interest declined. The Central
Bank opened a special rediscount line to help consolidate the debt of structur-
ally sound private firms in financial difficulties because of the earlier
crises in the Argentine financial markets; it will also compensate private
firms that have contracted external loans in 1981 with maturities of 18 months
or longer against losses that would have resulted from the most recent devalua-
tion of 30%. The policy to improve access of the private sector to credit is
complemented by renewed efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit. Taxes on a
number of luxury items have been increased, custom tariffs were raised again
by 5% and the authorization for current expenditures limited. Wage policies
adopted for the public sector imply a reduction of salaries in real terms; the
investment budget is being analyzed to ascertain possibilities for further cuts.
17.       These measures were initially effective in restoring tranquility
in the private sector and are expected to strengthen export and investment
incentives without reversing the trend toward trade liberalization. The
Government is giving priority to consolidating the financial position of the
industrial sector, which has been seriously eroded, as a consequence of an
overvalued exchange rate and high real interest rates, while maintaining the
momentum to increase efficiency and to concentrate in areas of comparative
advantage. The Government is aware that it will take time and considerable
effort to overcome the difficulties the private sector is facing. Temporarily
inflationary pressures have been rekindled. Following the devaluation,
wholesale prices increased by 11.7% and consumer prices by 7.9% in April
compared to first quarter averages of 14.0% and 15.8% respectively. The
Government though is confident that it will be able to bring down again the
rates of inflation through tight monetary and fiscal policies. The treasury
deficit for 1981 is projected at 2.3% of GDP compared to 2.7% of GDP in 1980.
Medium- and Long-Term Development Prospects
18.       With trade liberalization measures beginning to take effect,
industrial and overall economic growth are expected to be relatively slow
in 1981 and 1982. In addition, business failures of weak or overexpanded
firms and unemployment could increase--albeit from extremely low levels.
Availability of long-term credit for reequipment and modernization will be a
crucial requirement for supporting the restructuring of industry. Since the
private sector is also expected to take on a number of tasks previously
undertaken by the public sector, considerable flexibility and efficiency will
be required of the Argentine financial system. While agricultural production
decreased in 1980 because of unfavorable weather conditions, the output is
expected to reach record levels in 1981. Exports of agricultural products and
investment incentives for agriculture should rise given the expected decelera-
tion in domestic industrial price increases and favorable prices of Argentine
products in international markets.



- 6 -
19.       Export growth in current prices during 1976-79 averaged over 30%
per year; it will not be possible to sustain this rate. Export prospects have
weakened in the short term, but they appear to be excellent over the longer
term with expected increases in both agricultural yields and international
prices. Total export earnings are projected to increase by an average of 13%
annually during 1982-1987 (6% in real terms). Most of that increase would
be generated by agriculture and agro-industry, with the manufacturing sector's
share declining to about 12% of total exports by 1985. The ongoing import
liberalization process, as well as the need for modernization of infra-
structure and industry implies that imports in current prices could increase
at about 14% per annum through 1985 (7% in real terms).
20.       With the current account balance turning negative in 1979, and
projected to remain in deficit through 1985, gross inflows of medium- and
long-term capital, including direct foreign investment, are projected to
increase from US$4.6 billion to US$9.4 billion over the same period. The
bulk of these capital flows should be available from world capital markets,
bilateral arrangements, export credits, and direct private investments.
Official multilateral sources, however, may play an important role by provid-
ing financial support combined with technical and organizational assistance
and by stimulating capital flows from other sources. Argentina's medium-
and long-term external public debt amounted to US$10.5 billion at the end of
1980 (US$8.1 billion 1979) and private external debt, US$6.5 billion (US$5.4
billion 1979). The external debt service ratio was 26% in 1979, and is
estimated to have been 30% in 1980. The Bank's share of the external public
debt was 5% and its share in debt service was 3%. Given the relatively modest
anticipated external borrowing of the public sector, the public debt service
ratio is expected to remain below 20%, with the Bank's share not expected to
rise above 1979 levels. Private indebtedness will increase more rapidly, and
the overall net debt service ratio is projected to rise to 30% in the mid-1980s.
In view of these prospects; and assuming continued prudent economic policies,
Argentina is considered creditworthy for loans on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After
a hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976. Since that
date, the Bank has made loans for ten projects amounting to US$886.0 million.
A US$60 million loan for an agricultural credit project was cancelled in 1979.
22.       To assist Argentina through the initial stabilization effort, Bank
lending has focused on major infrastucture projects and the provision of
credit and training to productive sectors. A grain storage project was



- 7 -
designed to enable Argentina to export agricultural products in a mt   orderly
manner; a vocational training project would help improve vocatios: . anu skill
training; an industrial credit project helped support modernization and
expansion of export oriented industries, and the projects for power, highways
and railways provided part of the infrastructure necessary to facilitate
agricultural and industrial expansion. Recently, the Bank began lending to
Argentina's hydrocarbon sector through a series of loans. The oil and gas
engineering loan was the first step in helping Argentina improve its knowledge
of hydrocarbon reserves through expanded auditing and seismic surveys; the
coal exploration loan will improve the basis for a rational exploitation of
Argentina's coal resources.
23.       Disbursements of Bank loans have been slower than expected.  Per-
sistent high rates of inflation, the need for fiscal austerity and inertia
of the private sector did not provide a conducive environment for progress
of Bank financed projects. During the last twelve months, however, the pace
of disbursements has picked up considerably. The marked slowdown in the rate
of price increases and stricter budget procedures augur well for further
progress. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Future Bank lending is expected to become more diversified now
that the Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address
structural and institutional constraints. Future projects would support
Government efforts to modernize the economy through: (i) upgrading public
sector enterprises and rationalizing sector policies; (ii) restructuring the
industrial sector to increase efficiency and improve export performance; and
(iii) helping the Government in its efforts to transfer responsibilities
to provincial authorities and promote private sector participation. Within
the framework for proposed assistance, the oil and gas sector offers ample
possibilities for continued Bank participation. Argentina's sizeable hydro-
power potential, shared with riparian neighbors, represents another attractive
field for Bank assistance. In the transport sector, the Bank is helping with
the preparation of a highway sector project and plans to continue supporting
other modes of transport.
25.       To help modernize the industrial sector, the Government has reduced
import duties to encourage adoption of measures to increase efficiency.
Discussions between Bank and Government to strengthen financial and human
resources for industrial development are expected to result in the formulation
of projects to support industrial training as well as industrial expansion.
In addition, the present administration has taken long strides toward opening
up areas for private sector or joint ventures which traditionally have been
the exclusive domain of the public sector. New mining legislation has cleared
the way for the development of Argentina's substantial mineral reserves by the
private sector. Possible Bank participation could help rationalize sector
policies, attract foreign investors and promote domestic private sector
participation.



- 8 -
26.       The Government has embarked on a major revision of the revenue
sharing system and the distribution of Government responsibilities/expenditures
to reduce bureaucracy, synchronize the supply of services more closely with
demand and provide services more effectively at lower cost. In support of
these policies, a proposed project in the water supply and sewerage sector
would help develop provincial institutions, consolidate sector finances and
effectively expand service coverage. Bank participation in energy conservation,
pollution control, regional water development and flood control are additional
possibilities that are under study.
IFC Operations
27.       As of April 30, 1981, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in Argentina
totalling US$99.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.5 million, of
which US$50.2 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A summary of IFC's
investments is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE HYDROCARBON SECTOR
Overall Setting
28.       Argentina has a substantial and diversified energy base.  Proven
reserves of crude oil are estimated at 2.4 billion barrels (bbl) or 330 mil-
lion tons equivalent and those of natural gas, at 21.2 trillion cubic feet,
i.e., 520 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE). Argentina's hydroelectric
power potential is estimated at 2.5 billion TOE, but existing capacity taps
only about 7 percent of this potential. Coal reserves are put at 450, million
tons and consist of highly volatile, low quality bituminous steam coal.
Apart from hydroelectric power there is also potential for renewable energy
based on vegetable fuels (firewood, bagasse), geothermal, nuclear, wind and
solar energy. A large-scale expansion of hydroelectric power generation is
underway, and a gradual expansion of nuclear generation based on domestic
natural uranium is planned. As one of its primary development objectives,
the Government aims at reaching self-sufficiency in crude production by the
mid-1980's and increasing exports thereafter as more reserves are identified.
Another important objective is to improve utilization of natural gas.
29.       Primary energy output during 1970-75 increased less rapidly than
demand because of declining crude production. This resulted in a weakening
of Argentina's overall energy position and an increase in petroleum imports.
Following a change in Government policies in 1976, and the renewal of private
sector interest in exploration, crude production increased and imports narrowed,
with crude reserves increasing to a level of about 15 years, based on current
levels of consumption. By 1979, imports accounted for only 13% of domestic
petroleum needs and 20% of natural gas consumption, at a total cost of about
US$1 billion, equivalent to 18% of total merchandise imports. Demand composi-
tion changed considerably during 1970-80: petroleum products' share declined
from 69% to 56% of energy demand whereas the share of natural gas increased
from 21% to 26%, and that of hydro/nuclear combined, from 1.3% to 10%. Coal
and vegetable fuels remained about the same at 8%.



-9-
Institutional Framework
30.       Sector policies are the responsibility of the Secretariat of Fuels
(Secretaria de Combustibles) within the Ministry of Works and Public Service.
The Secretariat is charged with (i) pricing and investment policies,
(ii) approval of exploration and production contracts negotiated between the
state oil enterprise and private companies, and (iii) development of new
sources and overall energy planning, a function still in its initial stages.
The state-owned Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad del Estado (YPF)
operates in virtually every branch of the petroleum and natural gas sector
except marketing of natural and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Gas del Estado
(GdE), also a state enterprise, is responsible for imports, processing and
marketing of natural gas and LPG. The third major state-owned company in the
sector, Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales (YCF), is responsible for exploration
and development of Argentina's coal deposits, mainly located at Rio Turbio, as
well as for transport and sale of the coal produced.
31.       There is a growing participation by private firms, both domestic and
foreign, in the oil and gas sector. Exxon and Shell are active in exploration,
refining and marketing; Cities Services and Amoco, in production; and Total,
Occidental and Union of Texas, in exploration. There are about 45 locally-
owned firms operating in hydrocarbon exploration and production; of these
about 30 companies are exploring or producing oil and gas on a contract basis
with YPF, while others provide services to the petroleum industry. The
Secretariat of Energy regulates all private sector participation, from the
exploration of crude oil, which is based on service contracts with YPF, to the
sale of refined products, whose prices are fixed and market concentration
controlled through pricing and marketing regulations.
Exploration and Production
32.       Argentina's hydrocarbon-bearing areas cover about 1.2 million sq km
onshore and 0.6 million sq km offshore. Of the ten basins, the Cuyo basin is
the best developed with the rest still requiring substantial exploration.
Cumulative discoveries of crude from the early 1900's have amounted to 5.6
billion bbl, of which 3.1 billion bbl have already been produced. Exploration
has surged since 1976, and the decline in reserves reversed, largely because
of the resumption of exploration by private firms. Since 1980, both YPF
and private companies have stepped up exploration. Good prospects exist for
additional discoveries especially in the extreme southern and northern basins
where private companies have acquired acreage.
33.       As a larger area for exploration and production has been assigned to
the private sector, recent increases in crude output have been brought about
mainly by private firms. The latter now provide nearly one-third of crude
output, up from 27.5% in 1975. In 1979, YPF produced 115 million bbl of crude
compared with about 58 million bbl from private contractors; this together
accounted for over 90% of Argentina's crude requirements. Output of natural
gas, which is largely associated with crude, increased at a rate averaging
about 6% per annum throughout the 1970's. Natural gas output is concentrated
in Santa Cruz and Neuquen, but the fastest growth has occurred in the distant
Tierra del Fuego fields. During 1976-79, Argentina's gas reserves nearly



- 10 -
tripled to 21.2 trillion cubic feet as a result of the new emphasis on explora-
tion. Currently gas production is running at about 1.2 billion cubic feet per
day, but about 30% is being flared partly because government policy in the
mid-1970s did not encourage conservation and development of the resource, and
partly because the Government had entered a long-term contract to import
substantial quantities of natural gas from Bolivia from 1972 to 1992. That
policy has now changed, but flaring persists because of the inadequacies in
the gas gathering and distribution system, and the lag time involved in
converting industrial and commercial equipment to operate on natural gas.
Refining
34.       Refining capacity amounts to some 0.7 million barrels per day (bpd),
produced by 12 refineries. Six are owned by YPF and account for 65% of
total capacity. La Plata (YPF) is the largest refinery (232,650 bpd) followed
by Lujan de Cuyo (128,800 bpd); together they account for about 50 percent of
total refining capacity. While YPF's refineries are based on advanced refinery
processes, their product mix contains a higher proportion of fuel oil and
lower amounts of lighter and middle distillates than those in the private
sector. In 1979, YPF, which accounted for 73% of the total crude processed,
generated only 69% of total middle and light distillates and 79% of total fuel
oil. The proposed project would help YPF increase its production of higher
value middle and higher distillates to meet domestic demand, and reduce the
output of lower value fuel oil which currently exceeds local consumption. The
Government has agreed that it will exchange views with the Bank on its plans
for future expansion of domestic refining capacity (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 4.03).
35.       Although average capacity utilization for Argentina's refineries
was 76% in 1979, YPF's refineries had a much higher rate (85%) compared with
those in the private sector (60%). This is partly because private refineries
were not able to get an adequate allocation of domestic crude and because
imports were restricted. In 1980, however, the Government modified its crude
allocation policy giving the private refineries a larger share of domestic
crude and permitting them to import the remainder of their requirements. As
petroleum products demand increases in Argentina and refinery configurations
are converted to better reflect the demand pattern for different products, the
average capacity utilization in the refinery sector is expected to increase to
about 80% by 1985 and 90% by 1990.
Transportation
36.       Most oil and gas, both crude and refined, move over a system of
pipelines owned and operated exclusively by YPF and GdE. Crude oil pipelines
total some 1,700 km in length and 0.43 million bpd in capacity, and are
concentrated in Neuquen and the northern area. Crude from the southern
production centers is transported by tankers entirely owned and operated by
YPF. Product pipelines amount to 2,950 km and nearly 0.4 million bpd of
capacity. Trunk pipelines for natural gas extend along the length of the
country, connecting the producing areas in the extreme north and south with



- 11 -
the consumption centers around Buenos Aires. Existing gas pipeline . nacity
of 1 billion cubic feet per day is sufficient to meet summer dem Jd, but falls
short of potential winter peak demand by about 20%, thus restricting gas use.
Expansion of the northern and southern trunklines and construction of a new
pipeline from the gas-rich Neuquen fields to Mendoza and the Buenos Aires
industrial belt will ease supply bottlenecks and allow better utilization
of gas resources.
Investment Program and Prospects
37.       The investment program in the oil and gas sector during 1980-85 aims
at: (i) achieving self-sufficiency in crude oil; (ii) balancing the domestic
demand and supply pattern for various petroleum products; and (iii) expanding
and adapting the transport infrastructure for moving oil and gas from produc-
tion sites to the processing and consumption centers. Investment planning is
based on the assumption that total energy demand will increase by 5% a year,
while petroleum demand will grow at a lower rate (4% a year) as a result of
the intended large-scale substitution of natural gas (mainly for fuel oil),
expansion of hydroelectric power production and energy conservation efforts.
38.       The Government is currently updating the investment program for
the oil and gas sector. Based on projects prepared by YPF and GdE, investment
in the public sector during 1980-89 is expected to total about US$16 billion
(in 1979 prices); private sector investments, though more difficult to forecast
precisely, are likely to be in the range of US$5 to US$10 billion. Exploration
and field development are expected to absorb nearly 80% of the total investment.
It is anticipated that these public and private sector efforts will lead to
discovery and development of at least 2 billion bbl of additional crude
reserves which would help maintain the reserves/production ratio at 15 years
throughout the 1980s. Transport and distribution of gas would require about
13% of the investment and refining (mainly for secondary processing), about 7%.
Sector Issues and Bank Assistance
39.       Two principal issues affect further sector development:  (i) the
inadequacy of energy planning, particularly regarding natural gas; and
(ii) the inappropriate pricing of energy resources. These problems, which
are partly interrelated, are being addressed by the Government. The Govern-
ment is in the process of preparing a comprehensive energy plan, to which the
Bank is providing significant contributions in a number of ways. As part of
the Bank-financed Oil and Gas Engineering Project (Loan 1880-AR), the Govern-
ment is carrying out a study that will analyze the optimum development and
utilization of natural gas on a regional and national basis, together with an
assessment of alternative uses for fuels to be replaced by gas and of related
investment requirements. An audit of hydrocarbon reserves is also being
undertaken in connection with the above-mentioned project. A study on a
least-cost power expansion program was funded under a Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 1330-AR) approved in September 1977. The country's
coal potential will be assessed in connection with the recently approved Coal
Exploration Project (Loan S-020-AR). The Government is also developing an
energy conservation program and as an initial step, an energy audit of major
energy-consuming industries would be carried out partly financed under the
proposed project.



- 12 -
40.       Fuel pricing in Argentina is complex, and relates both to the ab-
solute level of fuel prices and to the relative pricing of various energy
sources at different stages from production to consumption. From early 1976
until mid-1978, the Government enacted substantial price increases at all
levels. However, in an attempt to slow down inflation, the Government kept
these price increases significantly below those of the overall price level and
fuel import costs in late 1978 and 1979. Consequently, by the end of 1979,
prices of petroleum products were below international levels. Considerable
progress to modify this situation was made during 1980, partly as a result
of the dialogue with the Bank, especially in the context of the Oil and Gas
Engineering Project and more recently during the preparation of the proposed
project. The Government is implementing a policy of gradually increasing
prices of crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas to a level which would
generate sufficient funds for YPF and GdE to meet their operating costs,
service their debts and fund a significant part of their investments.
41.       Retail prices for petroleum products are now satisfactory and on
average reflect international crude prices, ranging, as of May 1, 1981, from
about US$1.26/gallon for gas and oil to about US$2.09/gallon for premium
gasoline. A large percentage of final products prices is accounted for by
taxes and does not accrue to crude producers or refiners. Needed changes in
the relative prices of natural gas and other fuels are being analyzed in the
context of the gas optimization study under the Oil and Gas Engineering
Project (Loan 1880-AR). The study is expected to be completed by the end of
1982. The Government of Argentina has informed the Bank that it intends to
continue adjusting petroleum product prices periodically to reflect adequately
changes in internal price levels and international petroleum prices, taking
into account the results of the natural gas optimization study financed
under Loan 1880-AR. Furthermore, the Government has represented to the Bank
that final consumer prices of petroleum would, at the minimum, be maintained
in real terms at May 1, 1981 levels as measured by changes in the non-
agricultural wholesale price index.
42.       The Bank's strategy in the petroleum sector includes four main
elements. The first, which was initiated under the Oil and Gas Engineering
Project, consists of assisting in the planning of oil and gas development.
This project is expected to give rise to a number of other projects with YPF
and GdE, including exploration/development, gas recycling, secondary recovery,
and oil and gas transport infrastructure, which could be considered for future
Bank financing. Assistance in overall energy planning is provided through
different studies addressing specific subsectoral issues to help assemble the
building blocks necessary for an integrated energy plan. The second element
in the strategy consists of institutional improvement in the public sector;
both the Oil and Gas Engineering Project and the proposed project would
contribute to the institution-building of YPF, while the proposed Oil and Gas
Credit Project would strengthen the operational capability of BANADE to channel
medium and long-term funds to the oil and gas sector. The third element
consists of supporting the Government's policy of increasing the role of
private firms in the sector to improve sector efficiency. The fourth element
involves engaging in a pricing/sector policy dialogue with the Government.



- 13 -
Previous Bank Lending
43.       The first Bank loan in support of Argentina's hydrocarbon sector was
the Oil and Gas Engineering Project (Loan 1880-AR) approved in June 1980. The
project will (i) provide increased auditing of reserves and seismic surveys
and (ii) fund a natural gas optimization study (para. 48). Good progress has
been made in project implementation. The second loan, US$10 million for Coal
Exploration (Ln. S-020-AR), was approved in December 1980. The project will
help evaluate coal reserves in Argentina's most promising areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The project was indentified in March 1980 and appraised in October.
An appraisal report entitled "Argentina Refinery Conversion Project" is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary
data sheet is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Buenos Aires
from May 18-22, 1981. The Argentine Government was represented by Mr. Blanco,
Director of Economic Policy, Ministry of Economy; YPF was represented by
Mr. Scosceria, Finance Director.
45.       The project is an extension of the Government's comprehensive program
for more efficient utilization of hydrocarbon resources. Having initially
addressed YPF's need for increased exploration, which the Bank is assisting
through the Oil and Gas Engineering project, the Government and YPF turned to
existing refinery operations. Here the situation required urgent attention
both because of institutional weakness, and because the mix of refined products,
with a heavy emphasis on fuel oil, no longer was in line with demand, espe-
cially following large discoveries of natural gas in the early 70's. As a
result, YPF was forced to export an increasing amount of fuel oil at relatively
low prices as demand slackened. Meanwhile, imports of more costly petroleum
distillates increased as demand exceeded refinery capacity. To correct these
problems, the Government and YPF sought Bank assistance for the proposed
project. In addition to the conversion scheme, the proposed project's major
objectives include improving the performance of YPF's major refineries,
strengthening the company's financial management system, training operational
staff and identifying the potential for energy saving in the industrial sector.
Project Description
46.       Refinery Conversion Scheme.  The project would provide new conversion
capacity at YPF's two largest refineries, La Plata and Lujan de Cuyo, which
together account for 79% of YPF's refinery operations and 51% of total capacity
nationwide. Although both refineries have secondary processing facilities in
the form of coking and fluid catalytic-cracking, the respective capacities are
relatively small and a large proportion of the crude is directly blended into
the fuel oil pool. The refinery conversion scheme is designed to process
almost all of the fuel oil at each location into feedstocks for subsequent
conversion into light or middle distillates and coke. The refinery configura-
tions would include, inter alia, units for fluid catalytic cracking, delayed
coking, hydrotreating of light gas oil, and gas separation.



- 14 -
47.       At present the crude oil supply to the Lujan de Cuyo refinery is
15 percent below requirements because of a decline in oil production in
the nearby region. The shortage will increase until a 560 km pipeline is
constructed to the refinery from the Neuquen region where substantial proven
reserves exist. YPF has studied the pipeline, estimated to cost about US$120
million (1980 prices), and determined that it is the least-cost alternative
source of supply. As construction will take two years or less (compared to
four for the conversion scheme), YPF has agreed to provide the necessary
facilities for the transport of crude oil to Lujan de Cuyo in time for the
start up of the conversion scheme (Section 3.05(a)(ii), draft Loan Agreement).
In addition, the present capacity of the product pipeline from the Lujan de
Cuyo refinery would not be adequate to handle the supply of refined products
following the conversion scheme. Therefore YPF has agreed to expand the
transport capacity of the petroleum product pipeline by the time the conversion
scheme is ready for start up (Section 3.05(a)(i), draft Loan Agreement). Finally,
in order to ensure that both refineries receive sufficient crude feedstocks,
YPF would be asked to agree that it would make the necessary arrangements to
supply the refineries with adequate quantities of crude oil to ensure their
full utilization (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
48.       Plant Operations Improvement Program.  Based on studies carried out
by the French petroleum company, TOTAL, for La Plata and by specialists at
Lujan de Cuyo, YPF has prepared a program for plant operations improvements at
both refineries. The program, to be implemented with technical assistance of
TOTAL would include, inter alia: (i) energy conservation and pollution
control measures; (ii) improved maintenance; (iii) modernization of instru-
mentation and improved production processes; (iv) introduction of a standard
accounting system; and (v) optimization of process units through computer
modelling. The energy conservation and pollution control subprojects would be
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan; the rest would be financed
by YPF from internally generated funds.
49.       The energy conservation subproject comprises numerous measures,
including instrumentation to minimize leaks, maximizing the use of flared
gas, introducing air preheat and force draught, improving combustion control
of furnaces and providing the boilers with chemical cleaning. The pollution
control subproject would concentrate on the La Plata refinery, with particular
attention to overcoming the water pollution problem there (acceptable standards
are already maintained at Lujan de Cuyo). Measures include directing all
clean water that can be separated from the oily water into side channels;
reducing leakages and losses from the cooling water system and maximizing
the use of tank traps for rainwater collection.
50.       Financial Management Improvement Program .  The program is based on
the recommendations of a detailed study of YPF's financial and accounting
system completed by Arthur Andersen & Co. in September 1980. The study
reviewed YPF's existing accounting system and procedures which, until 1977,
had followed the Government's budgeting and accounting procedures. Subse-
quently, YPF transferred to a financial accounting system that was more suited
to its status as a public corporation. The proposed program would initially
concentrate on establishing cost centers and introducing a management informa-
tion system; subsequently, it would focus on medium-term capital budgeting and
financial planning.



- 15 -
51.       Training Program.  This program would concentrate on training YPF
personnel in modern financial management systems, energy saving and pollution
control techniques, better operating and maintenance practices. The training
of selected personnel in operation and maintenance of the Refinery Conversion
Scheme would be handled separately in workshops and plants selected by the
engineering contractor.
52.       Industrial Energy Audit.  The proposed audit would: (i) review the
present pattern of energy consumption in major energy-intensive industries and
the scope for substitution; (ii) identify the scope for conservation in major
industries and reduction of waste through retrofitting in industry; and
(iii) review the potential for developing retrofitting equipment production in
the country. The Government would consult with the Bank on the selection and
terms and conditions of the consultants to undertake the study, discuss the
results with the Bank, and prepare by December 31, 1982 a program for implement-
ing the recommendations of the study (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.07).
Implementation - The Borrower
53.       YPF would carry out the project except for the industrial energy
audit, which would be supervised by the Secretariat of Energy. YPF, a public
sector company, operates in all branches of the petroleum and natural gas
sectors. With total assets in 1979 of US$5.9 billion, an equity base of
US$2.65 billion, gross sales of over US$4.5 billion and total personnel
of 35,700, YPF is the largest enterprise in Argentina and one of the largest
oil companies in Latin America.
54.       YPF was established in 1922 as a Government department and changed
in 1977 to a State company under the Law of State Corporations, thereby
increasing its operational autonomy. While the Secretariat of Fuels retains
control over pricing and investment decisions, in other areas YPF operates
autonomously according to commercial principles. A Board of Directors
comprising the President, Vice President and seven members provides overall
corporate direction and management. Prior to 1977, overstaffing was a problem
and management changes were frequent. Subsequent to becoming a state cor-
poration, the management situation has stablized, staffing levels have been
reduced one-third, competent personnel have joined from the private sector
and a more dynamic approach has been taken to corporate management. Based on
present practices combined with the recommended assistance for financial
management, YPF is considered fully capable of implementing the proposed
project.
55.       YPF's operating profit improved in 1980 compared with 1979 both in
total amount (US$597.9 million) and in relation to net sales (11.6%). How-
ever, net profit, as measured with and without revaluation gains (US$113.4
million and minus US$241.8 million respectively) was lower than in the previous
year, primarily as a result of higher interest charges on short-term debt.
The absence of a local long-term capital market resulting from the inflationary
environment and constraints placed by previous governments on long-term
borrowing in the international capital market, have led YPF to accrue substan-
tial debt on a short-term basis, most of which is rolled-over as de facto
long-term debt. The debt service charges have adversely affected liquidity



- 16 -
as well as profitability. During 1979 and 1980, the current ratio decreased
from 1.3:1 to 1.1:1, while the quick ratio declined from 0.8 to 0.7. Funds
from operations were only able to finance about 11% of 1980 investment require-
ments. YPF's capital structure, reflecting revaluation gains, was satisfactory
with total equity at the end 1980 equal to 50 percent of total assets. YPF
has agreed to maintain a quick ratio of 0.6, a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 and
a debt service ratio of 1.4 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.05). The Govern-
ment has agreed to ensure that the ex-refinery prices of YPF's products are
adequate to provide YPF, operating efficiently, with funds sufficient to cover
all its costs and expenses before interest, to earn a reasonable return on its
revalued net fixed assets in service, and to allow it to meet the financial
ratios specified above (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 4.02).
56.       Marketing is an important aspect of YPF's operations; of 6,000
petroleum stations in the country, 2,800 are outlets for YPF products. YPF
has prepared a preliminary marketing plan for 1980-85, which includes, inter
alia, rationalizing the service stations network, achieving better inventory
control and increasing the share of profitable products in the total product
mix. YPF has agreed to finalize the marketing plan by March 31, 1982, and
carry it out by  June 30,  1985,   (Section 4.05, draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
57.       For the execution of the refinery conversion scheme and the plant
operations improvement program, YPF has established a project management
unit at its headquarters supplemented by project teams at La Plata and Lujan
de Cuyo. The financial management improvement program would be executed under
the supervision of the Finance Director of YPF with the assistance of Arthur
Andersen & Co. The proposed training program would be implemented under the
direction of the Training Manager of YPF.
58.       The refinery conversion scheme would be carried out in two phases.
Phase I includes basic process design and engineering, detailed engineering
for critical parts, and preparation of bidding documents. Phase II would
include detailed engineering, construction and erection. Separate contractors
would carry out Phase I and Phase II to avoid conflict of interest. For Phase
I, YPF has selected, following procedures satisfactory to the Bank, Foster
Wheeler International (FWI), a U.S. firm with extensive experience in designing
and building refinery projects. FWI would also serve as technical advisor to
YPF during the implementation of the refinery conversion scheme and would
direct the start-up with the help of process and equipment vendors and the
engineering contractor. FWI would provide the process guarantees while the
engineering contractor would provide the mechanical guarantees for the scheme.
For Phase II, YPF would award a fixed fee contract.
Cost Estimates
59.       The project's total financing requirements, including working capital
and interest during construction, are estimated at US$878.4 million of which
US$439.4% million (50%) would be in foreign exchange. Estimates for the
conversion scheme, which account for about 94% of total costs, include



- 17 -
(i) a physical contingency of 10%; (ii) price escalation for equipment and
materials of 9% for the last two months of 1980 and 1981, 8.5% for 1982 and
7.5% thereafter; and (iii) price escalation for civil works and erection,
based on recent experience, of 20% for the last two months of 1980 and 1981,
declining to 8% thereafter.
Financing Plan
60.       The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would cover about 23%
of the total project cost and 46% of the foreign exchange cost. The remainder
of foreign costs and all local costs would be covered by YPF's internal cash
generation and borrowings.
61.       YPF would contribute US$257.4 million, 29% of project costs,
from internally generated funds, and would arrange for about US$421 million,
48% of costs, in external financing. YPF has financial relationships with
more than 100 commercial banks, and should have no difficulties in arranging
the proposed financing, which represents less than 10% of its planned total
external borrowings during the project implementation period.
Procurement
62.       The engineering contractors who, together with YPF, would be respon-
sible for procurement of equipment, would prepare a list of goods and services
for financing with export credits through competitive bidding by countries
providing such credits. The rest of the items would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following procedures acceptable
to the Bank except for: (i) items costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
each, not exceeding in the aggregate US$4 million, to be procured by inter-
national shopping subject to the Bank's prior approval of the list of items
involved; and (ii) agreed proprietary, process and time critical items, whose
aggregate cost is estimated not to exceed US$20 million, which would also be
procured through international shopping under procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. A preference of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be allowed to qualified local manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures.
Construction and civil works would be bid competitively as part of the main
engineering contract under consortium arrangements. With regard to the
main engineering contract, YPF requires special permission from the Govern-
ment to open the bidding for potential contractors without local subsidiaries
and/or partners, as the Government normally restricts bidding for such con-
tracts to contractors with local links. However, in special cases, depending
upon the complexity of the work and in the interest of wider competion, the
Government allows exemption to this rule. YPF has received this exemption.
Disbursements
63.       The Bank loan would finance the Foster Wheeler engineering contract,
signed on May 6, 1981, and part of the main engineering contract to be awarded
later in the year. The proceeds from the loan would also finance part of the
costs of the programs for plant operations improvement, financial management



- 18 -
improvement, and training, as well as the industrial energy audit. Retroactive
financing of US$8 million would cover the initial costs of the Foster Wheeler
contract and of the plant operations improvement program incurred from May 1,
1981. The proposed loan would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1985.
Environment
64.       The two sites for the conversion scheme differ quite considerably
from an environmental aspect. The refinery at Lujan de Cuyo has very
modern facilities for the handling of liquid effluents that was completed in
1979 at a cost of US$2.5 million. The capacity of the treatment facilities,
which meet Bank standards, would be expanded to handle additional loads
resulting from the conversion scheme. At La Plata there is a liquid effluent
problem and the TOTAL report has recommended specific measures to reduce
the contaminants to an acceptable level. Those measures are included in
plant operations improvement program and would be financed from loan proceeds.
YPF has agreed to take all reasonable measures to meet acceptable ecological
and enviromental standards in executing the project (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06).
Benefits and Risks
65.       The project would generate substantial financial and economic
benefits. From the first year of operation, the project is expected to show a
surplus after meeting debt service requirements. The financial rate of return
is satisfactory at 24.6% before taxes, and 17.2% after tax. A 20% decrease in
sales revenue would lower the before-tax return to 12.0%; a capital cost
increase of 20% together with a one-year delay in construction would reduce
the before-tax return to 20.6%.
66.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 48%. Sensi-
tivity analysis shows that the return is affected most by changes in refinery
prices, capital and operating costs, delays in construction and less than full
capacity utilization. A 20% drop in revenue would reduce the return to 34%,
while a one-year delay in the project combined with a 20% capital cost increase
and the ultimate attainment of only 75% capacity utilization (as against 95%
assumed) would reduce the return to 40%.
67.       The project would generate substantial foreign exchange savings,
increasing to a level of US$722 million in 1987 (in 1981 dollars), the first
year of expected 95% capacity utilization. The project would also provide
important institutional support to YPF through programs for plant operations
improvement, financial management improvement and training. These programs
would substantially strengthen YPF's corporate structure, enabling it to
control costs more effectively, prepare better financial data for management
information, and improve its present capability for investment planning.
Finally, the project would help the Government's energy conservation efforts
through studies on conservation prospects in the industrial sector.



- 19 -
68.       Risks associated with project technology, start-up and op  itions
are moderate, as the project is based on commercially proven technology,
and adequate arrangements have been made under the project for training
operational and maintenance personnel. Commissioning problems and difficulties
in initially attaining and maintaining a high operating rate could develop;
however, these are considered unlikely in view of the participation of capable
and experienced engineering and operating firms in the implementation of the
project and YPF's experience in operating the existing refineries at high
capacity. No significant commercial risk is foreseen as the production
capacity of the project's major commodities falls short of expected demand.
69.       The project's main risks concern potential delays in implementation,
particularly project civil works, and inadequate cost controls. Steps have
been taken to reduce these risks including strengthening the project team with
technical advisory services from FWI, involving capable and experienced firms
in all phases of the project, prequalifying local construction firms with
particular attention to their past performance, and introducing cost control
systems with the help of Arthur Andersen & Co.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Yacimentos Petroliferos
Fiscales Sociedad del Estado, the draft Guarantee Agreement between The Argentine
Republic and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided by in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 17, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED APEAGES
LAIID AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            2766.5
AGRICULTURAL    1786.0                                   MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970  b ESTIMATE l       LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   640.0       1120.0    2280.0                     1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS CF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1129.0         1703.0    1873.0                    1055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       20.6         23.7      26.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 73.6           78.4      81.6                      63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         33.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           41.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. K-.                          7.4          9. 0       9.5                     28. 1                      77.2
PER SQ. [at. AGRICULTURAL LAND      12.0         13.0      15.0                      81.7                      129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           30.7         29.3      28.9                      41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                           63.7         63.7      62.8                      54.7                       61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     5.6          7.0       8.3                       3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GRQ1WTI[ RATE (PERCENT)
TGTAL                                1.8          1.4        1.3                      2. 7                       1.6
W3BAN                                2.6          2.0        1.9                      4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0         22.0       21.0                     34.8                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0          9.0        8.0                      8.9                        8.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.5          1. 5       1.4                      2.5                        1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNEAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FeOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA ([969-71-100)            96.0        101.0     122.0                     106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    122.0       130.0      126.0                     107.4                      125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           104.0        109.0     109.5                      65.6                       91.0
OF WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE         65.0        69.0       71.2                      33.7                       39.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        6.0          4.0        3.0                      8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.0           67.4      71.0                      63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..         59.0        ..                      66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION 1
TOTAL                                 ..         56.0      66.0                      65.9
URBAN                                 ..         69.0      76.0                      80.4
RURAL                                 ..         12.0      26.0                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         85. 0     97.0                      62.3
URBAN                                 ,,         87.0     100.0                      79.4
RURAL                                 ..         79.0      83.0                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             660.0        500.0     530.0                    1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..        980.0        ..                    1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              160.0        179.0         ..                    480.3                      209.7
URBAN                                 ..        144.0
RURAL                                 ..        989.0         ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..                        ..                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZF OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI.                               3. 7         3. 8
URBAN                                3.5           ..         .
RURAL                                4.3           ..        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.4          1.4
URBAN                                1.3          1.4
RHURAi                               1. 7          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS1
TOTAL                               69.0         76.0       79.0j.
[ROBAR                              84.7           ..
RURAL                               19.0           ..



- 21-                                   ANNEXI
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCCME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  L     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRINARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        106.0     110.0                      99.7                     105.9
MALE                  98.0       106.0      110.0                    101.0                      109.3
FEMALE                99.0       107.0      111.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 23.0         32.0      41.0                      34.4                      64.0
MALE                  23.0        30.0       38.0                     33.5                       71. 1
FEKALE                24.0        35.0       44.0                     34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  50.0          59.0       63.0                     38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            22.0         19.0       18.0                     30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                            7.0         7.0        8.0                     14.5                      26. 1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        91.0         93.0       94.0                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         24.0         61.0       81.0                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        170.0        379.0     838.0                     245.3                     192. 2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         22.0        147.0     177.0                      84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 155.0        179.0      147.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           2.0        3.2                       ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8131.7       9213.2   10140.9
FEIALE (PERCENT)                   21.4         24. 7     26.0                      22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              20.0         16.0       14.0                     37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 36.0         32.0      29.0                      23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.5        38.8       38.6                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  61.0        58.1       57.3                     48.9                      55.9
FEmALE                                17.2        19.3       19.8                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         0.9        1.0                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27. 5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9          50.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9           4.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6          14.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOMIE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                     190.8
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      653.0                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     577.0                     332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Percent of population.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL IMIICACCRS
Nots:Alhough  the data are Aeer frog  ourcs .geeesly lodged the met euthoritatire  end reliable, it ehold ales be toned that they nay co  heb                          ott
mattot.sly o-pe...his heocuec of the lack of ensodandiIed deftaittona  afd coec-pts iced bY diffe,ness.. ostries  in colcigthe deco.  The dsts are, core-
bih.1...  .. osful to des-the ordete of -Sagitude, iodioane trstde, snd cheret-tnis  certain nj-r differences bet ne                    ..en  ..
Toe .reet.n   . grup  ere .15 the  ee  t tygnpOf tha cab Jett tosn.try Ind (25   .- stoat   goa  nith a-maba  high-tve ig bts,, then the coun.try Xr-u
of the cb lec  ounnry  (eaetfrI            CptlSupu    i Esportare' arup  hbar  'Middle Incom   North Afri-a and Middle East  is  h.. bba  heraoee of atrn.ge
daaad     S  o   utne  cuin  utb  aesrtead In relatn   asree  of ens indiseet to arohtbs.  These a-arges at. enly useful in comparing  the.as
ofor  tdic-n on       artle  amon   h. cutry and rfrne   rus
LAND1 AuA  (oh,uad,,-,ltltinttPheoa      Pplts  dlittOd by nuber at practioisg  ptp-
T. si - TInte   sufae     -e oprising  land areaendind   d   ae.                                  iim       alfs    e.amdina1 sabosi at seibt.reity 1sta.
for cropa, pstuasnnkt and kinche   gadesort  lie  fallow; 1977 daea.                           PaeadIsl  gaut   ose                     pIttia  'crs,ed aysaif teetnuse.8
Psen.letients  taital Nd -ttal,l urban, and rura'l -  bPnpnaiow(rrl
IMP  it CPITO1155  -GIP per o.pitsert.      tae  curet   maken prince, *  e-                 ura,ed  oa)dirided b   hi   apoin                       bro   opitlbd
oulated by sane c-----  ion. .et.odae Wenld bask Atlaa  (1977-79 basis); 1990,                   avilebla  in publit and privste   gaarltand.apenI .iaisd haptL end c-
1970In sd  19ygdat.                                                                              habilitce   cnes              pitaa  r= etbliabant   -ema tly atoffed
ENERGY CONSUKPTIONl PER CAPITA - A...e  Octso-ptSoo of             aeta   nergy lse               tby e   es   w    hsca.ttbilat   rvdn    rniel    std
,~d,li,,;lt   II.1 g.. Ind hdY ... ... I-    .dI~Irare are .mt inolded.   or-al hespitale.hwv.   ineoIud  health sa iediraI
andligit, ptrosu, nturl  as  nd  ydo-,nuoas  an  gsthrm    elc-           teeter  emI petnntlp staffed by aIhsiin(ban by a medical ees r
rnicit) is  ilogrns ofscsi  quivalent Per ospita; 1960, 171   nd 199nre                          Idwife, etc.)  thith offten  in-petient  .osdation and provide
date,                                                                                            limited range of medicl ft.ilitie.  Pot statistical parpoass  -rba  hnepi-
PcPULATION ANtD VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                  taleisiotde NbsIprienipa1 general end spenislised hespitais. and total
Total Populatiot. Mid-lear (millions) - As of July 1; 1960, i9TO, end 1979                      pdisit tar 1 o_ ita Red -1 Tonaitl nube  of al des n -toory di-hg-
data,                                                                                           fern.t1 pp.ltiap tnal  dicidd by the number of beds.
dfeesdfiolc of -brhetarn  asI             afet  oporahility of data                  tOuiSM
s1rtc 9n60e lb, 1970, sod 1979 dare.                                               Aveae-     ieofHuehl  cesn  nor hb..e.bod) - Ito l. or-a. sod rNta-
Pouans Poetioce                                                                          A houehldcnsst   f   gnP cf indi.cidale  hb. chart living qu.rter.
cotcal. cplation by asceInd am  end their nornali  ty  ad fert.ility rotee.                 the houshold  for etatitisyl purboai-
Projctin  prennenaforscrsi ry eteecoi rte  of           b . dhe  lvl  as-      Avrg sme 1f9rereInd          terror,  toal  rbn,sddud                      Aeags
letel, sod fmale lOic aecoancy  otaIIcIn    n  7.  pere   Tepae-                 dnlioe,trpf- rey               Fnl osecceo-yrartiutrtt
teni iyacodug   c  ocarleelso  petfa-l -tlatY p          ningt.  p1nfrmeca. Ires t                    fltrct P. en-- n  of dnellte    b-in.  uracod  urlI
racbosuirt te  hen aclgvad oe nf ttees tie croe Ioelt  ofPiotaic              orsto dinig  st    lcriiyt  Ivo   q                                 Aortere  ..
asli ice ycItm   dic.  Tic  inachce-e  Iony aPe tertil iy  rans doligP         t          AIsam   Inslan        rattutce1"R)-"l                           ~      -     . 
f-e re iecro   level of-ci   e   nndcic   oe   botc   Atniston                            Prtar acoI       -rtl   oeadfml  -Anet                           aewdfml
of voaro replates    Inei  enac ly  h   ttoay   ouaincea                                 enrollent o  aI gsand           epiaylvl  spretge  rreetv
th~~~ I.pI ...... t llvl   11 11 t-srr anio   unirrsl euteidnenrllmetIny.etee   15  poceh
yea sct -soeoruaio  trace  The. ea I.t                   eoI stat toaypplto                      toesm    utcae  eo    no tte   fi lchnae
scre bae beet reached.                                                   Secondar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:1  p!%y eho  tota, moei. an   eml -1     Computd.  ashore; secodary1
PocolccotOsost     -iedcanfn  reuiresat ieendrufh--re  f epr-vofprimryppetrttion
Perat k . -  SAyer   -oplaio         persquare kilomtert (1I0 inats -p..                    pr Ide       dnol vctoa,s   eobrteno    ntnoin    c   ui
Ylatso   iNhi:,:197, a...ind 1979              T. -     .    tI.nI dena.                        opol-techer atio  i    rn'Imop -an   acedr   - Toteil soodeol    eoiedi
yerpp -ain   orh5-b.1k-S,add707.itrerdn    eve.1                                                                                          np d         b.;
CrdeSihSaepr k          hcueand ) - AFoo  lose births pe  thoago   of.I. mi-rf                      d.tt            t.             f.    .-         P-dP
poplaton   190,r 1971,ra  land 17  da.ptadI           -      f                .d.. IautpIdlyf12t17yI    fg;..p.d....I.     .                                                  Il
Crude Vnt  aefe  huad                   al  etsprtoro    fmdpa                               P.ee.e Care. Sta tncs- ..c.anot  - Pedtter g-  carsi- comprisemtor.
IraerdriStinane         '-Avrg   numerofdaoghieto14     may     ih  bea  in5             niiitaryynhiclhea..t   in.p
hrc to-rmal rrrdciepro    feereire    rsN    a-pcfcfr                                          airntldcar (pert.l niseed..torolan,            -Al  ye   f    ncrdfrtA
NI c   se uu Ip        I.ireyea   av ..ge  an din Pint1960, 19f   aNd-l9T P..         bod.catey  to general publi  per thosan   olti pruoti_           elde          i
ru6oPlnioAcecy.y-ul(tisrs)-ltoc  obe   facetr                                                    eon   oe6eniroorecadi  peeom-eitano    frai   e
orhtc 6Aonco,tl A   dccic9o underanit   fnaiclfol  pnro    rgo.                            o      efc  ;dt   o    oo    Iner  maI         o   ecnaa  eeoems
fanilo ycatouci-leers (percevo of asp....n.tird cometIn).....d.PencTett1tan.of .marriedi
NIP                     An-Il 91-th  It,,  f Ilt.1  id-                    '~~~~~ruonicsy  n abl -hd-1 cet to.-I    ii.    ynbI            .    .i    h
orodocloc ofcli fcd coaodi-iA-..  lrdsi-  iorohla  needh and  fee  esdticetio                      devoed   rimril   to rcordntigneral1 nose. Icscneid               e
Isoncaaos  pea9h7i. Ind197   d,ndtr   cvrprmr  godsNg555555                                   To ION"ol"i   tap eo  lsrfu   ie       ek
IntaI'l      ua)ciclr,dbl   o    otanoncnt    e9    ofe   r                                   inm   sol nedcr e    e.n  e  erEse    ote  ubrs
005c-mt...d                           -iod. Id.th Agrg-eprdcvo tts hccntrpishsnsdo(                                   h'                         .....   ....7 i
PIP,     qtvlooo   ctfn  apis  attslei   outype   spis                                   loc  OC
"~~ity   ly fil.-Y.- .-I.&T -di.g inefsinisn  it1a960ncc19r70irIndcu19rc7l;  196, 19                                                                     I'll
ntotnorrerntSaaothnd.byd.Put based  sopyicoie   rebtdo       f fc -oc -o pct-        97dta
..Ity  antelhcosdeigecinmtetrprnr,   oycohsdre                                           fml   I-ercen .) -ifIase.laboPort                          .. ircna9   of ..rilhnr .I innr
cod sc  Altrihtisoof ppulaion,and  llonio  1 fetAtot fori.  PInoo at          A.c.ue(ecn)-Ihrfoc   tfrig   oety    otn   acE."l
Scunsoid  lvel;  Sbi-h, 197, sodISyT   sts.                          tehin        a  prcetag  ofI  tota   laorfoce  1960 -971 ad 197ndre
pus   ooeo   f  hc   1   rn   aol  h   nmlAMtnn                          hm   ensad-            ec nSo   tonesar  connoted.     e  total, g  s-  andfemal  labor  force a
Arrld  Pccd turery; 1961-05,I 1570P oc-id 1977l                                           didots.
Per ccitaorootn euoly rom aimalsod  ulee-Protin_s             oi:,E.d:1   irfod  dad-ee      trorr  of nblya      t ppi-tdien, Rand bag  -t        It trn .A tow ecu-.
.  ....  i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 97  sd_97ddteblromi Drnddmr ctn     Rti oipnomorouffr15sa 6Iadnee
hulA (oes 14) motalitybate pm tboaaod   - dna  dah  pard thousand  tnab
cisdnderIe   frP  O-  r tabes  1960,  19610a5d 19P70 In17 data.IMAIitk.SStOTIOd dti.    h    .I    .ld.gdi.n.I fi
iIAAITN                                                                         e.rsesrsaa of rrccnraoeccne (both lv cashandktodf-  Oereoredbyricbesn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.pt.d  t-  nd   bil
I.tfe Osrectonce er EArth fynare)  - Aseroga number of prare of his  resceisiog  of bosse-bFnida.        d.   - E~.... i11Y  t
anbith 16 11970III abd 1978t data..t
oP cc pe  thooavdlivebirts.                                                 Orimaed bsolna Pvert Istma lvel 055 et cnl e -Purban weAtori
Iees vSae bsa Iretten oftk nocsiat      ppl(- total. obs  n rora    -          .          dbouepoo2           nom   ee  i   hnitoelr    hlncihd                        ii
catr eypl  (Iclde  treated  sorface.  waeson            utetd   but.ocontoinadred.i.. ~i.     afirda-e
cate   such as_s1ospoetd   otos,arae  we                             ttn    eie    e          fetotdnelen ion Poery eo...        Lrs I , t) ret-         ca - arhan and rural0 -.
ityAtt Ind  soondpoh i....        o  mr   m 20  eenfo   mhssmp  e                             pro icd-ne ofpthedcesrvry.   ht.  Irvti  deie ft                   e   h   as
hA....Ahted so. bato  al61Ott r1as7sbl  Lceec.hthss    ru irs                                  ee   iOajtm                Io . .Itnr coe  of.litoc in orbs         inres
Ac  ct  oveccsprd ado.rocrnoree   ortof  he  ayit  ro-io  the7                        and rurali.  -. perconot  fi poltiton  (urban sod..   tonal) rho  oe"h       np
rural     Nube  o  popentna,  rb1,an7rrl)eeve.btwttr
disposal sa perrentegee of nbabycUSrespective  po.enos. o nedi-                    nIosoI do and Soia  Sets lIIIosSc                                              960
pelmySt.od. the co..i.etc   and. dipsl9it7rstoi   ramnt                                                              onmoAmlemsddrjoimeTprm
of  one  a      SreO an  ntr-wnf    bpI.   Ininer-b oro   Iyst   or the. fc  vii                                                                Ootbcir 1990
EP !rriiI                                                                                             ItevlacaiI..tIandlfniooe



23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
E C O N O M I C D E V E L O P M E N T D A T A
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS -                             Actual              Estimated   Projected
________ ________ _______ _____   __ ________ _______ 1970-  1979-
1976        1977        1979 bi    1980          1985       1976      1985      1976        1979      1985
Annual Growth
Millions of Us$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate                  Rates              As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             53,484       56,240      59,886       60,906      77,004        3.3      4.3      100.7       99.3      98.8
Gains from Terms of Trade (+3         -385        -293          400         720         923         ..        ..        -.7         7       1.2
Gross Domestic Income              53,099       55,947      60,286       6,626        77,927       3.3      4.3      100 .0 100.0    100.0
Import Goods and NFS                3,837       4,456        7,922        9,854      13,213      13.1       8.9         7.2      13.1      17.0
Export Goods and NPS               -4,996       -6,841       7,871      -8,209       10,812       9.7       5.4        -9.4    -13.1    -13.9
Resource Gap                       -1,159       -2,385           51       1,645       2,401                   -        -2.2       0.0       3.1
Consumption Expenditures           41,157      41,847       46,491      49.248       62,557       3.3       5.1       77.7       77.1      80.3
Investment Expenditures            10,685       11,720      13,846      14,023       17,770       5.0       4.3       20.2       23.0      22.8
Domestic Savings                   11,844       14,022      13,795      13,378       15.370       4.5       1.8       22.3       22.9      19.7
National Savings                   11,440       13,535      13,300      12,072       14,157       3.6       1.0       21.4       22.1      18.2
ME.RCANDISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current us$                                                     As percent of Total
lmports
Capital Goods                      500         874       2,241        2,922       6,433         -         -        18        33.6      33.7
Intermediate Goods               1,870       2,402       3,418        4,292       9,159         -         -        61.3      51.2      48.0
Petroleum & Products               560         584         617          868       1,466         -         -        18.4       9.2       7.7
Consumption Goods                    70         98          398       1,103       2.010         -         -         2.3       6.0      10.5
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)        3,050      3,958        6,674       9,186      19,068         -         -       100.0    100.o    100.0
Exports
Primary products                 2,807        3,842       6,778      6,754       15,560         -         -        74.6      86.8      87.9
Manufactured goods                  956       1.495       1.027         909       2,136         -         -        25.4      13.2      12,1
Total Merch.Exports (f.o.b.)         3,763       5,337       7,805       7,663      17,696         -          -      100.0    100.0    100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                         Average 1978 = 100
Vxport Price Index                      83          91          127       145          213
Import Price Index                      83          97         118        130          192
Terms of Trade Index                    95          99         109        111          111
VALUE-ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1978 Prices  -nd Exchange Rate
Agriculture                         6,365        6,7C9       7,235        7,452       9,512       3.0        4.7       11.9      12.1      12.4
Industry and Mining                20,805      23,621       27,677      28,230       36,363       6.9        4.7      38.9      46.2      47.2
Services and others                26,314      25.870       24,974      25,224       31129         .5        3.7      49.2       41.7     40.4
Total                              53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906       77,004       3.4        43      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                      billions of $a
Current Receipts                   ,984       3,040      18,319                                           _        12.3      13.1
Current Expenditures               903        2,183      15,089                                           -        11.3      10.8
Budgetary Savings                    81         857       3,230                                                     1.0       2.3
Transfers (net)                   -483         -724      -1,641                                                     6,1       1,1
Investment                         343          920       3,840                                           _         4.3       2.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                   1965-       1970-       1975-        1980-
(Calculated from 3-yr. av. data)  1970            1975        1980         1985
Average ICOR                           4.4         6.9          6.8         3.7
Import Elasticity                      1.1         0.9          1.4         1.3
Marginal Domest 8aiiumgs,Ratea(%)  26.7           10.6         43.7        24.5
Marginal Nat'l Savings Rate (')   23.2            16.2         44.5        24.9
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER                      LABOR FORCE                                      VALUE-ADDED PER WORKER IN 1975  PRICES
WORKER                                                                                           AND EXCHANGE RATE
In millions  In X of Total   Annual Growth Net             In Us$          Percent of Av.    Grovth
1970    1975   1970   1975            1970/75              1970   1975    1970   1975          1970175
Agriculture                      1,474   1,420        16     14           - 0.7              3,357  3,575        81      79         1.2
Industry                         2,948   2,941       32      29             0.0              5,407  6,842       131    150          4.5
Services                         4,790   5,779        52     57             3.8              4,140  3 618       100      80        -2.4
TOTAL                            9,213  10,140    100    100                1.0              4,133  4,551       Tii5    TIRI       T
MONEY AND PRICES                      1975        l976         1977        1978             1979
(billions of $a)
Mov0>i Supply (Ml)                   330.6    1,259.9    3,080.0    7,742.9                 18 545.0
Ml+ time deposits (M2)               409.7    1,838.4    6,254.2   17,169.3                 49,604.0
Ml  %s of GDP                         23.3        15.8         14.5        14.8                 15.0
M2 as / of GDP                        28.9        23.0         29.4        32.8                 37.0
CPI Index (1974=1oo)                 270.6    1,472.2    4,063.7   11,873.8                 29,474.5
%. change CPI index                 619.6        444         176         192                   148
a/ The Argentine Central Bank has undertaken a major revision of the national accounts. Data in this table are based on
preliminary estimates and are not fully comparable to those presented in Report 2988-AR, dated July 10, 1980.
b/  The 1977-1979 changes reflect to a large extent the, real appreciation of the exchange rate during 1978/79.                      December 29, 1980



- 24-                                                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at correct prices)
A c tua1
Estimated    Projected
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1972        1973        1974        1975        1976       1971        1978              1979             1980         1985
Exports (inel. WPS)                 2,389       3,799      4,761       3,669       4,668       6,769       7,689             9,555             10,722      20,536
Imports (incl. NIS)                -2,222      -2,633     -4,218      -4,517      -3,584      -4,892      -4,901            -9,059           -13,689    -24,071
Resource Balance                         167       1,166       1.543        .848      1,084       1,877       2,78                 496           -2,967       -3,535
Net Intmrot Payments  .              -323       -382        -388        -425        -464        -370       _                  -493              -956      -1,935
Direct Investment Income              -60        -77          -35        -16         -28        -208        -292              -427              -546         -220
Other Factor Service Income            -3          4            7           1          2         -40        -136              -148              -250          -85
Net Factor Service Income               -386       -455         -416        -440       -490        -618        -815          - -1,068            -1 2        -2,20
Corrent Transfers (net)                    -4        10          -             5          18         31          48                 35                30          69
Balance on Current Account              -223        721          127     -1,283         611       1.290       2_21               -537            -4,690       -5,707
Private Direct Investment                 10         10          10          -           -          146         290               265                739         805
Official Capital Grants                    10        26          17            9           8        -           -                 -13                 -
Public M&LT Loana (net)                  205        364         228          -68      1,319         356        _50              11297             2,435          260
Disbursements                         522        832         776         448       1,908       1,064       2,910            21284              3,084          2610
A-orti.ation                         -317       -468        -548        -516        -590        -708      -1,560             - 987             - 646         -350
Other M&LT Lbans (net)                    51        -29          28           -3       -159         519         309             1.607             1.126        5,688
Disbursements                         101         71         244         405         268       1,059       1,328             1,988             2,089        8,013
A-ortization                          -50       -100        -216        -408        -427        -540     -1,019              - 381             - 964       -2,325
Short-ter. Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                    82       -444        -339         275       -1,814         31      -1,558             1,823            -2,406          -
Change in Reserves
(- - increase)                       -135      -648        - 71        1,0Qm           17    _4t2        -2,l1             -_4442              2,796      -1,046
Level of Gross Reserves                  465      1,330       1,286          432        1,589     3,816       5,814            10,256             7,460        8,959
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-Like                -                 -           -           -           -              -             -               -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                               -           -          -           -            115        205         165              306
Other Multilateral                  92         57           1         177          165        148         230              323
Bilateril                           82        42         519           42          146        117         74                41
Suppliera                          118        116        535          307          196        363         339              542
Financial Institutions             390        156        488          126          970        754      1,445             1,770
Bonds                              120        65         290          200          207         93        146               104
Total Public M&LT Loans            802       436       1,833          852        1,803      1.680      2,399             3.086
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding &
Dis bursed                          2,368     2,792       3,046        2,901        4,251      4,836      6,791             8,088
interest on Public Debt               156        199        233          250          258        308        512               915
Repayments on Public Debt             317        468         548         516          589        708      1,576               987
Total Public Debt Service             473        667         781         766          847      1,016      2,088             1,902
Other Debt Service                    174        244         408         626          659        602      1,369               544
Total Debt Service                    647        911      1,189        1,392        1,506     1,618       3,457             2,446
BUGIRN ON EDXPORT EARNTINrR (7.)
Public Debt Service                    19.8       17.6        16.4        20.9         18.1       15.0       27.2            19.9
Total Debt Service                     27.1       24.0        25.0        37.9         32.3       24.0       45.0            25.6
TDS + Dir. Inv. Income                 29.6       26.0        25.7        38.4         32.9       27.0       48.8            30.1
AVERAGE TERME OF PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as % Prior Year DO&D               8.3        8.4         8.3         8.2          8.9       11.6        11.8            9.9
Asort. as % Prior Year DO&D            16.9       19.8        19.6         16.9        20.3       36.7        19.7           14.5
'IBRD Debt Outat. & Disbursed          256        302         340          341          342       342         352            363
IBRD as h of Public Debt 0&D           10.8       10.8        11.2         11.8         8.0        7.1         5.7            4.5
IBRD Debt Service as 7. of
Public Debt Service                   5.1        4.6        4.5          5.6          5.1        2.2         3.2            3.1
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)          Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1978              Estimated Debt Oustanding on Dec. 31, 1979
Dis burs   O.1y  ~     Percent                  Disbursed only              Percent
IBRD                                       352                      Pere5.2                       363                      4.5
Other Multilateral                         552                         8.i                        619                      7.1
Bilateral                                  728                        10.7                        796                      9.8
Suppliers                                1,575                        23.2                     1,555,                     19.2
Financial Institutions                   2,618                        38,5                     3,858                      47.7
Bonds                                      966                        14.3                        897                     11.1
Total Public MHLT Debt                      6,791                       100.0                      8,088                    100.0
I/ Public M+LT includes only loans to the Treasury.
June  1, 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan No.   Year          Borrower           Purpose             Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                              481.0
1330       1977         SEGBA, S.A.         Power                  115.0         50.1
1384       1977         Argentina           Highways               105.0         74.9
1463       1978         Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit               100.0         53.7
1521       1978         Argentina           Grain Storage          105.0        103.7
1677       1979         Ferrocarriles       Railways
Argentinos S.A.                           96.0         96.0
1761       1979         Argentina 1/        Yacyreta Power         210.0        210.0
1880       1980         Yacimientos
Petroliferos      Oil and Gas
Fiscales            Engineering           27.0         20.3
1905       1980         Argentina 2/        Vocational
Training             58.0         58.0
S-020       1980        Argentina 3/        Coal Exploration        10.0         10.0
Total                                                1,307.0
Of which has been repaid                               212.6
1,094.4
Amount sold                       12.8
Of which has been repaid          11.2                   1.5
Total now held by Bank                               1,092.9
Total undisbursed                                                   626.7
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Not yet signed.
3/   Signed on May 13, 1981.



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligor                Type of Business       Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960    Acindar Industria           Steel Products         3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper           3.0         -        3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive             1.5         -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.        Transmission
1962    PASA, Petroquimica          Petrochemicals         3.0         -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper          12.5         -       12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.       Steel Products        17.0         -       17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and           5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                   5.5         -        5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.         Textiles & Fibers    7.0           -        7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                  Soybean Processing   9.0           -        9.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.                Pulp and paper         8.0         -        8.0
1978    Juan Minetti, S.A.          Cement and
Construction
materials             9.0         -        9.0
1978    Ipako-Industrias            Chemicals and
Petroquimicas               Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                   10.0         -      10.0
1979    Alpesca S.A.                Fisheries              5.2        0.5       5.7
Total Gross Commitments                           99.4        2.5    101.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                              48.2        2.0     50.2
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                51.2        0.5      51.7
Total Undisbursed                                 12.3          -     12.3



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan 1330-AR   Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977, Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of local
cost requirements during 1978 and 1979, the overall execution of the project
has been delayed by about 20 months. This delay, however, does not signifi-
cantly affect the economic viability of the project. The project is proceed-
ing according to a revised schedule prepared in March 1980.
Loan 1384-AR   Fourth Highway Project; USS105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After a delay of about 2 years because of the Government's
efforts in 1978 and 1979 to reduce public expenditures, the civil works
component is in full execution. All 48 civil works contracts have been
tendered and all awards have been approved by the Bank. About 20% of the
works were completed by the end 1980 and 60% are expected to be finished by
end 1981. Other project components are being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan 1463-AR   Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of September
23, 1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The US$99.5 million of loan funds available for onlending has
been 92% committed by BANADE. Projects for the remaining amount are under
study and funds for them should be committed in the near future. About one
third of the loan has been disbursed and disbursements should be completed
by mid-1982, about six months beyond the date originally forecast.
Loan 1521-AR   Grain Storage Project; USS105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Government has decided that the Grain Storage Project
should be redesigned to Drovide a line of credit to the private sector through
the Banco de la Nacion or another designated commercial bank for: (a) construc-
tion of new grain storage facilities; and (b) expansion and modernization
of existing facilities. The Grain Board prepared a proposal to discuss with
Banco de la Nacion and the Argentine Railways. The Government also reviewed
the proposals and recently presented them to the Bank for discussion.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1677-AR   Second Railway Project, US$96.0 million of November 8, 1979;
Effective Date:  May 6, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The project is about one year behind schedule; it is now being
implemented in accordance with the revised investment plan agreed by the Bank
and the Government. Orders for US$48 million of Bank financed equipment have
been placed; orders for another US$25 million are expected to be placed within
the next month. Progress in line closures, rationalization of services,
staff reductions and operating improvements are in line with or above appraisal
targets. Financial targets-have not been met, mainly because of low agricultural
traffic following unusually adverse weather condition in 1980.
Loan 1761-AR   Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project; US$210.0 million loan of
November 6, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Project execution is proceeding about six months behind
schedule due to delays in the evaluation of bids. The loan is expected to
be made effective soon pending finalizing of changes to be made in the finan-
cial covenants included in the Loan Agreement.
Loan 1880-AR   Oil and Gas Engineering Project; USS27.0 million loan of
October 3, 1980; Effective Date: December 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is satisfactory with initial work
having commenced on all the major components. Contracts have been awarded
for auditing of reserves and conducting seismic surveys, and Droposals are
being prepared for carrying out the gas optimization study.
Loan 1905-AR   Vocational Training and Technical Education Project;
US$58.0 million loan (not signed); not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Loan signing has been delayed pending resolution Of budget
issues between the Ministries of Education and Economy. Officials of the new
Government, which took office in March, are reviewing all budget allocations
and are expected to resolve the impasse shortly. Meanwhile a project manage-
ment team has moved efficiently to put into place the mechanisms required
for project implementation.
Loan S-020-AR Coal Exploration Project; US$10.0 million loan of Mav 13, 1981
not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is under-way and bids have been received
for consultant services and drilling eauipment. Con.racts are expected to
be awarded by August 1981.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
REFINERY CONVERSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:  6 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                      YPF
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                         March 1980
(d)  First mission to review project:                    April 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                     October 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                         May 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      November 1981
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) The Argentine Government would exchange views with the Bank on its
plans for expanding refinery capacity (para. 34).
(b)  YPF would provide the necessary facilities for supplying crude oil
to the Lujan de Cuyo refinery and expand the transport capacity
of the product pipeline from the refinery by project start-up date
(para. 47).
(c) The Argentine Government would ensure that adequate crude oil
supplies are provided to the Lujan de Cuyo and La Plata refineries
(para. 47).
(d) The Argentine Government would prepare and carry out a program
for implementing the recommendations of the Industrial Energy Audit
by December 31, 1982 (para. 52).
(e) YPF would maintain a quick ratio of 0.6:1, a debt/equity ratio
of 60/40, and a debt service ratio of 1.4:1; the Government would
ensure that ex-refinery prices of YPF's products are adequate
to provide it, operating efficiently, with funds sufficient to
cover all costs and expenses, before interest, to earn a reasonable
return on its revalued net fixed assets in service, and to allow
it to meet the financial ratios specified above (para. 55).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) YPF would finalize its marketing plan by March 31, 1982 and carry
it out by June 30, 1985 (para. 56).
(g) YPF would implement the project with consideration for ecological
and environmental factors (para. 64).



18   44    3      [ 34S   =~~~~'D  090{ oott ot     Op       s       ':t         ;'tt00 
+XT''                                                                                                      AM
C) .  =                                                                                                               n}U,I,U               :               D      ;XfTSti  ' ='            Alc  w.    , ti
l 0                                                                                                          dW"i5-    ?P0               ;fiA DW     
att - ,S>DI4Oo [W^ON Ud -- : 0 t             Y  0 g d    0                                          . 0-
X  v  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.at ,VNliV0                             4.M ot,°¢-vw2 A  -0000
:  0  0  0  t .,D^d:X >1 / DUDi t X =P ;
:0 0Yt>i$ st;r1<:f:Z4
Xt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a



