Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7386-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 3, 2007
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7386-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 3, 2007, entered into between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the “Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in clause (A) of the recitals below). 
 
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to the loan provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement dated June 21, 2004 (Loan No. 7218-BR), the Bank provided assistance to the 
Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower's program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty through a set 
of microeconomic and institutional reforms that aim to foster sustainable growth by favoring 
capital accumulation and productivity gains in Brazil, especially aiming at reducing logistics 
costs, enhancing business environment, improving financial sector efficiency, access and 
soundness, and increasing technological progress and innovation (the “Program”), as such 
program was described in a letter, dated January 20, 2004 from the Borrower (represented by its 
Ministry of Finance (
Ministério da Fazenda
)
to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment 
to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during its execution; 
 
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated May 3, 2006, from the Borrower 
(represented by its Ministry of Finance): (i) describing the Program as revised since the date of 
the letter referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under the first phase 
referred to in (A) above, and actions taken as described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (the “Second Phase of the Program”); (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Second Phase of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 
(C) 
the Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (i) the 
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in (b) below, the General Conditions (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.01. (a) of this Agreement,  
Articles 
 
III and IV of the “General Conditions for Loans” of the Bank dated July  1, 
2005 
(as 
 
amended through October 17, 2007) (the 2007 General Conditions), as well as the 
 
definitions set forth in the Appendix of the 2007 General Conditions of the terms used 
 
in said Articles III and IV, constitute an integral part of this Agreement with respect to 
 
Article II and Schedule 2 of this Agreement.  
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07
 of
this Agreement (the “Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread Notwithstanding the foregoing, if 
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such 
amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of 
the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower, through the Secretariat of International Affairs (
Secretaria de 
Assuntos Internacionais
)
of its Ministry of Finance, and the Bank shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: the Loan has been registered with 
the Central Bank. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is April 6, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8º andar 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  (011-55-61) 3412-1740 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at 
Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ 
Suely Dib de Sousa e Silva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Alexandre V. Abrantes 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under 
the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has improved customs effectiveness by adopting various measures 
(including, 
inter alia
,
the creation of the 
Despacho Aduaneiro Expresso (Linha Azul)
 
pursuant to 
Instrução Normativa SRF
 No. 476, of December 13, 2004, as published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 15, 2004) that the Bank is satisfied have 
cumulatively had the effect of reducing: (a) the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of 
cargoes inspected by customs officials (“selectivity level”) from 40% to 30%; and (b) the 
average net time for the clearance of cargoes by customs officials (“average net release 
time”) by 20%. 
2. 
The Borrower has reduced port costs and delays by establishing priorities for the national 
policy on port infrastructure, including, 
inter alia
,
by
adopting the 
Agenda Portos
,
through the issuance by the Borrower’s Minister of Transport (
Ministro de Estado dos 
Transportes
)
of
Portaria
 
GM
 No. 495/2004, of November 16, 2004, as published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on November 17, 2004. 
3. 
The Borrower has reduced transport costs on the federal road network by providing for 
the maintenance and rehabilitation of 30% of the federal road network for the period from 
January 2005 to and including December 2005 through the awarding of output-based 
contracts, as evidenced in the letter dated April 19, 2006 from the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transportation (
Ministério de Transportes
)
to the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower has fostered multi-modal transport by completing the geographical 
restructuring of railway concessions in the Borrower’s territory, through, 
inter alia
,
the 
following resolutions issued by the Borrower’s National Land Transport Agency 
(
Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres
): Resolution No. 1009, of June 28, 2005, as 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 8, 2005; Resolution No. 1010, of 
June 28, 2005, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 8, 2005; and 
Resolution No. 1011, of June 28, 2005, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
on July 8, 2005. 
5. 
The Borrower has strengthened the regulation of infrastructure by: 
(a) 
adopting general rules for bidding and contracting procedures for public-private 
partnerships in public administration, at the federal, state, Federal District and 
municipal levels through the enactment of the Borrower’s Law No. 11,079, of 
December 30, 2004, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
December 31, 2004; and 
(b) 
creating staff positions and career development plans for staff of regulatory 
agencies through the enactment of the Borrower’s Law No. 10,871, of May 20, 
2004, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 21, 2004, and as 
amended by the Borrower’s Law No. 11,094, of January 13, 2005, as published 
Page  8
-
7
-
in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on January 14, 2005 and as corrected in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on January 17, 2005. 
6. 
The Borrower has facilitated the entry and exit of businesses by: 
(a) 
adopting a new bankruptcy law through the enactment of the Borrower’s Law 
No. 11,101, of February 9, 2005, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
on February 9, 2005; and 
(b) 
amending its national tax system to, 
inter alia
,
authorize the establishment of a 
unified tax collection system, at the federal, state, Federal District and municipal 
levels, for micro and small enterprises through the enactment of the Borrower’s 
Constitutional Amendment No. 42, on December 19, 2003, as published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 31, 2003. 
7. 
The Borrower has simplified the entry and operation of businesses by exempting legal 
entities that are defined as exporters from the payment of taxes on the sale or importation 
of machinery, apparatus, instruments and equipment under the 
PIS/Pasep
 and 
Contribuição para o Financiamento da Seguridade Social
 - 
Cofins
 tax regimes through 
the enactment of the Borrower’s Law No. 11,196, of November 21, 2005, as published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on November 22, 2005. 
8. 
The Borrower has improved the judicial enforcement of contracts by: 
(a) 
amending its Federal Constitution to create the National Council of Justice 
(
Conselho Na
cional de Justiça
)
and to make certain decisions of the Borrower’s 
Supreme Federal Court (
Supremo Tribunal Federal
)
binding (
súmula vinculante
)
on other organs of the judiciary through the enactment of the Borrower’s 
Constitutional Amendment No. 45, on December 30, 2004, as published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 31, 2004; and 
(b) 
amending certain provisions of the Borrower’s Code of Civil Procedure (
Código 
de Processo Civil
)
(Borrower’s Law No. 5,869, of January 11, 1973) to revise the 
review of appeals stated in the record and interlocutory appeals (
agravos retido e 
de instrumento
)
through the enactment of Borrower’s Bill of Law No. 11,187, of 
October 19, 2005, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 20, 
2005. 
9. 
The Borrower has addressed the need for sound financial legislation, system risk control 
and competition by: 
(a) 
having the Central Bank contract a consulting firm to prepare a study evaluating 
the residual risks in the Borrower’s payments system (the “Payments System 
Risk Evaluation”) that was completed to the Bank’s satisfaction in October 2004; 
and 
(b) 
reporting on certain aspects of the Payments System Risk Evaluation and 
providing a blueprint for the second phase of reforms of the retail payments 
system in the written report of the Central Bank’s Department of Banking 
Operations and Payment Systems (
Departamento de Operações Báncarias e de 
Page  9
-
8
-
Sistema de Pagamentos
)
entitled 
Diagnóstico do Sistema de Pagamentos de 
Varejo do Brasil
,
dated May 2005. 
10. 
The Borrower has mobilized long-term resources in the insurance sector by proposing to 
reform the reinsurance market though Borrower’s Proposed Complementary Law 
(
Projeto de Lei Complementar)
 No. PLP 249/2005, which was submitted to the 
Borrower’s Congress on March 9, 2005. 
11. 
The Borrower has improved efficient access to financial services for the poor and small 
and medium-size enterprises by authorizing voluntary payroll deductions for the 
repayment of certain loans to civil servants and retirees and pensioners of the Borrower’s 
Federal Executive Branch through the enactment of Borrower’s Decree No. 4,961, of 
January 20, 2004, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on January 21, 2004. 
12. 
The Borrower has increased the effectiveness of public research and development by 
creating incentives for innovation and scientific and technological research in the 
manufacturing sector, including, 
inter alia
,
by
authorizing strategic alliances between 
public entities and private companies, the transfer of technology and financial resources 
from public entities to private companies, and the sharing of public infrastructure with 
private companies, through the enactment of the Borrower’s Law No. 10,973, of 
December 2, 2004, as published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 3, 2004. 
13. 
The Borrower has fostered private innovation by: 
(a) 
reforming the Science and Technology Sector Funds (
Fundos Setoriais de 
Ciência e Tecnologia
)
by
adopting various measures, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
formation of the Coordination Committee for Sector Funds (
Comitê de 
Coordenação dos Fundos Setoriais
)
through the issuance by the Borrower’s 
Minister of Science and Technology (
Ministro de Ciência e Tecnologia
)
of 
Portaria
 
MCT
 No. 151, of April 2, 2004, as published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette on April 5, 2004; and 
(b) 
providing certain tax incentives to legal entities engaged in research and 
development of technology through the enactment of the Borrower’s Law 
described in paragraph 7 above. 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  10
-
9
-
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
149,625,000
Front-end Fee 
375,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2011  
 
through June 15, 2022 
 
4.17% 
On December 15, 2022 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Borrower’s Official Gazette” means the 
Diário Oficial da União
,
the Borrower’s official 
gazette published by the 
Imprensa Nacional da Casa Civil da Presidência da República
.
2. 
“Central Bank” means the 
Banco Central do Brasil
,
the Borrower’s central bank. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
Gold, 
non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  14
-
13
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. 
“2007 General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 17, 2007) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 17, 2007) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
Page  15
-
14
-
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
