Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21930
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36700)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 11.0 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDEINT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR THE
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 22, 2001
Energy & Mining Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kina (K)
1 Kina = US$ 0.30
US$ 1.00 = Kina 3.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BGS           -      British Geological Survery
CNG           -      Compressed Natural Gas
DME           -      Department of Minerals and Energy
DMP           -      Department of Mining and Petroleum
DMR           -      Departnent of Mineral Resources
DPE           -      Department of Petroleum and Energy
GOPNG         -      Government of Papua New Guinea
GTQ           -      (PNG) Gas to Queensland (Project)
ILG           -      Incorporated Landowners Group
IRC           -      Internal Revenue Commission
LNG           -      Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG           -      Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MRDC          -      Mineral Resources Development
Company
PD            -      Petroleum Division
PNG           -      Papua New Guinea
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassumn
Country Manager/Director:   Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director:    Yoshihiko Surni
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Salahuddin Khwaja



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Ln. 3670-PNG
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     14
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                             25
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  34
Annex 8. Policy Framework Initiatives Undertaken and Supported by the Project          35
Annex 9. Investments in Exploration and Development                                    38
Annex 10. Oil Production, Price, Tax and Royalty                                       39
Annex 11. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Export Earnings                             40
Annex 12. Organization of the Dept. of Petroleum and Energy showing Petroleum          41
Division
Annex 13. List of Tasks Undertaken by the Project                                      42
Annex 14. Studies Undertaken during the Project Implementation                         50
Annex 15. Promotions and Presentations                                                 51
Annex 16. PNG Oil and Gas License Map                                                  52
Annex 17. Project Implementation Schedule                                              53
Annex 18. Project Implementation Schematic Part                                        54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004391                                         Project Name: PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
AND DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Salahuddin Khwaja                              TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: March 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND                        L/C/TF Number: CPL-36700
DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
CountryIDepartment: PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: GI - Oil & Gas Exploration & Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/04/91                                  Effective: 09/21/94
Appraisal:  01/08/92                                    MTR:
Approval:  12/09/93                                  Closing:  12/31/99            09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF PNG/DEPARTMENT OF PETROLEUM AND ENERGY;
PETROLEUM DIVISION
Other Partners:  None
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      J. Kassum                                    G. Kaji
Country Manager:      K. Rohland                                  M. Haug
Sector Manager:       Y. Sumi                                     P. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:   S. Khwaja                                   S. Khwaja
ICR Primary Author:   S. Khwaja
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S--Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to: (a) assist the Government in the development of an improved framework of
regulatory and ownership policies that would increase investment in the petroleum sector and Governmnent
revenue; (b) strengthen the capacity of the Government for comprehensive management of petroleum
exploration and development; (c) upgrade the capacity of the Government to gather, process, analyze and
market to international investors exploration and development data on the sector; (d) formulate better
standards for safe and efficient storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products; and (e) to
evaluate the potential for commercial development of natural gas reserves for LNG export, develop an
appropriate framework for gas development and present the results in international seminars to attract
investment.
The formulation of the project objectives was far-sighted. The project objectives were assembled at a time
when PNG's first oil production had only just commnenced. The Government had no experience at that time
of managing oil production in any form or manner, let alone the capacity to envisage future developments.
The objectives therefore represented sound planning for the development of the sector.
The prevailing framework of policy and law was basic and prospective in design in anticipation of a single
large oilfield development. It did not envisage multiple oilfield development nor gas development;
processing, transportation and utilization matters were not addressed at all. Equally, little consideration had
been given to the monitoring and regulation of activities, or the impact of petroleum developments and
sharing of benefits with landowners and provincial governments.
At the time of formulation, the responsibilities for management of petroleum exploration and development
were distributed within the branches and divisions of the former Department of Minerals and Energy.
Functions were amalgamated to a high degree with mining industry management. No single entity had
either the manpower or coherent responsibility for petroleum matters. Clearly, there was a need to
consolidate and strengthen the Government's capacity to manage the petroleum sector.
Earlier Bank support in the form of Petroleum Exploration Promotion Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1279-PNG) had re-kindled international oil industry's interest in petroleum exploration in PNG. It brought
together historic data that was assessed by overseas experts who promoted exploration opportunities to the
industry. Whilst vital and significant early steps were taken, little capacity existed in the Government to
gather, process, analyze and market exploration and development data to the industry. There was a need to
develop the capacity of the Government to undertake such work itself.
As a side observation to the development of exploration and production, it had been noted that there were
no apparent standards for safe and efficient storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products in
PNG. Whilst this was an obvious area for study, and the development of appropriate standards, this
objective of the project was clearly at discord with the other objectives. Such manifestly downstream
distribution matters were not in the ambit of petroleum exploration and development.
The objectives took into account the fact that PNG's initial oil discoveries were fields containing light oils
with considerable volumes of associated gas; additionally, several significant gas discoveries had been
made. With the lengthy gestation period for gas development the objectives wisely contained the evaluation
of the potential for commercial gas development. However, the objectives focused on LNG export without
regard to other development scenarios. They did nonetheless realize that an appropriate policy and
legislative framework was required for future gas development and that it would require promotion
internationally to attract investment.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were required to objectives as there was a clear perception of likely sector development at the
time of project preparation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of:
a)    Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Mining and Petroleum (now Department of
Petroleum and Energy) through employrment of experts in petroleum geology, archive management,
geophysics, reservoir engineering, production engineering, drilling, pipeline and facilities engineering,
petroleum economics and legal and fiscal policies; the experts to provide responsible advice and technical
assistance, and concomitant with this, to provide on-the-job training to national officers
b)     Studies and Promotions involving provision of experts and services to: (i) conduct studies on
location, size, product mix and feasibility of a petroleum refinery, and the feasibility of LNG export; (ii)
organize and conduct intemnational seminars to promote LNG export; and (iii) compile appropriate
standards for safe handling, storage and transportation of petroleum products.
c)     Equipment and Support Facilities to enhance the capability of DMP (now DPE) in monitoring and
analyzing petroleum exploration and development activities through the provision of: (i) a computer system
with appropriate hardware and software; and (ii) laboratory equipment.
d)     Training: (i) activities would involve post-graduate studies of nine nationals in foreign universities
in various petroleum disciplines and intemships with operating companies; and (ii) training of six nationals
as laboratory technicians.
3.4 Revised Components:
No significant revisions were made. Minor revisions were:
a)     elimination of the refinery study, as the Government had already decided to establish a refinery
and had made agreements with developers;
b)     broadening the scope of the evaluation of gas development by the inclusion of development
scenarios other than just LNG export; and
c)    the inclusion of prefabricated office space in the component of Equipment and Facilities to allow
for growth of establishment.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory as the project concept, design, and components were endorsed by peer
reviewers and the Bank management. (QAG was not in existence)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(a)   to assist in the development of an improved framework of regulatory and ownership policies
that would increase investment in the petroleum sector and Government revenue. This objective was
fully achieved as the project provided substantial assistance to both the development and the improvement
of policies, particularly in the area of gas resource development. Policies on gas, pipelines, frontier areas
exploration, landowner benefits, and national participation in the sector have all been developed and
introduced through successive legislative efforts. The initiatives undertaken and recognized during the
- 3 -



course of project are listed in Annex 8. These efforts culminated with the introduction of new
comprehensive legislation (Oil & Gas Act of 1998) for the sector, which laid the foundations for future
sector development (particularly in gas) and involvement of local communities in sector activity.
Policy work commenced with the revisions to the Standard Petroleum Agreement leading to issue of revised
standard versions 6.01 and 6.02. This included revised domestic market obligations, landowner equity
provisions, revised guarantee formats and natural gas policy provisions. Amendments to eight current
Petroleum Agreements were made to accommodate the provisions of the Mineral Resources Development
Company (Privatization) Act. Substantial assistance was provided to the Mineral Resources Development
Company (MRDC) in preparations for the launch of Orogen Minerals Ltd. and the initial public offering
(IPO) of equity in that company. Through the project, the Petroleum Division was able to take up its full
responsibility as a State entity in the associated processes for the IPO, such as float committee participation
and due diligence processes.
The natural gas policy was presented to Parliament and endorsed by the Government in November 1995.
Revisions were then made to the Petroleum Act and the Income Tax Act to legislate its provisions.
Fundarnentally, the policy provided for tax incentives for gas development with the lowering of the tax rate
from 50% to 30% for gas developments and the introduction of retention licenses as a new class of license.
A holder of retention license is pennitted to retain title over a gas field that is not presently commercial, but
has the likelihood of future commercial development. As more than 14 trillion cubic feet (TCF) of gas
reserves await commercial development, the legislation of the gas policy principles has sparked
considerable interest in commercial gas development. This singularly has the greatest potential to increase
investment in the petroleum sector and Government revenues. The Gas to Queensland Project currently
being frmed up would be the largest ever investment in PNG with an estimated capital cost of USD 2.3
billion and expected Government revenues of about USD 3.6 billion over the project life of 30 years.
A pipeline policy was formulated and subsequent amendments introduced into the legislation. The policy
sought to optimize the use of pipelines through regulatory principles whilst maintaining regard to their
ownership. Prior to the introduction of the policy, the only provisions for pipelines were common carriage
principles, and direct regulation of the conditions of use of pipelines, tariff control and the prevention of
leaks. The pipeline policy introduced a two-tier hierarchy of pipeline license. Pipelines carrying petroleum
from a particular production project are designated project pipelines. Pipelines carrying petroleum from
two or more projects or facilities; transporting petroleum to an intemational boundary; or transporting
petroleum from a strategic facility are designated as strategic pipelines. Strategic pipeline licensees are
required to put forward access principles for other users for the approval of the Minister in return for which
they preserve their usage rights. Strategic facilities are those facilities that may be required to have open
access to other users; generally, only those facilities that are linked to a strategic pipeline may be so
classified. Common carriage requirements nevertheless remain for project pipelines however any common
carriage regulation must give priority to commercial access arrangements that the licensee has previously
made.
In order to foster exploration in less prospective areas, policies were introduced to provide incentives to
explorers. This consisted of a reduction of the tax rate from 50% to 35% for designated frontier areas
where the Minister for Petroleum includes a condition for such designation in the petroleum prospecting
license.
Substantial efforts have been made in the analysis and redefinition of landowner benefit policies. Initially,
the only benefit for landowners hosting petroleum activities was compensation for damage to and
deprivation of land, and for the exercise of rights of way and easements. During the development of the
- 4 -



Kutubu oil project the Government decided, in 1990, to share some of its benefits with affected landowners.
Royalty on petroleum production was hitherto collectable by the State and transferable to the host
provincial government. The Government decided that a portion of the royalty with the agreement of the host
provincial government would go to the landowners. Also, part of the State's 22.5% equity in the project
would be held for the benefit of the provincial govenrnents and landowners of the project area and pipeline
route. These complex arrangements weire contrived at the executive level to placate landowner expectations.
Under the constitution, the accrued royalties were supposed to be transferred to the respective provincial
governments at the end of each year. In addition, a Derivation Grant was to be paid to the provincial
government amounting to the difference between the percentage of royalty paid and the same percentage of
export value. To effect the sharing of royalty with landowners, constitutional requirements were forsaken
by agreement with respective parties. A new Organic Law on provincial governments was introduced in
1995. This introduced the concept of a development levy and variously confirmed or amended this style of
benefit sharing arrangement and called for implementing legislation. This complex array of benefit sharing
provisions of different vintages, variously in law, policy, agreements, and executive decisions, was
rationalized with the introduction of Oil and Gas Act of 1998. An important feature of the new legislation
is a mandatory cap on the extent of benefits granted in accordance with the Act to landowners and other
affected parties. This cap is set at 20% of the net benefit to the State from a petroleum project.
As the industry has grown from a single field development to multiple developments and gas development
has received serious consideration, downstream industry development has been borne in mind. In the Oil
and Gas Act of 1998 downstream regulation of facilities including refineries was introduced. Also,
provisions were made for the regulation of domestic gas utilization businesses: this pertains to domestic gas
suppliers and operators, and the owners of facilities for storage and transportation of CNG and LPG.
(b)   to strengthen the capacity of the Government for comprehensive management of petroleum
exploration and development. This objective was substantially achieved with significant enhancement
being made to the capacity of the Government to manage petroleum exploration and development. Specific
skills have been developed in resource evaluation, exploration promotion and management, development
plans review, economic analysis, industry regulation and monitoring. As important adjuncts to skill
development, management training and the introduction of informnation technology (IT) have produced a
step change in the capacity of the Petroleum Division to conduct its business.
Whilst there have been capability increases, these have been somewhat eroded by staff attrition during the
course of the project. Some 15 professional staff left the Division for better paid jobs in the industry.
Replacements only partially made up for the loss as the newcomers missed the training in the earlier part of
the project. Nevertheless, the Petroleum Division retains a basic capability much improved above the level
prevailing at the time of inception of the project. Further institutional development will explore the
transition of the Petroleum Division into a Statutory Authority whilst the recently approved Gas
Development and Utilization TA Project (Ln. 7019-PNG) will seek to enhance the Petroleum Division's
capability in gas matters.
(c)   to upgrade the capacity of the Government to gather, process, analyze and market to
international investors explorationt and development data on the sector. This objective was
substantially achieved, though there will be an on-going need for the Petroleum Division to keep abreast of
advances in Information Technology. 'Petroleum Division has enhanced its capability to gather and analyze
exploration and production data, and sector costs. Key to the enhancement was the introduction of
Information Technology (IT) systems throughout the Division; this has enabled the development of a more
professional corporate culture in dealing with sector information of all kinds. This not only pertains to
numerical data, but also to industry reporting, basin studies, production analysis, policy papers, sector
- 5 -



studies, economic analysis and other business documents and reports. A significant outcome is the
development of an array of data bases covering: well samples, digital tapes, archives, well geology,
production, reserves, seismic surveys, wells, and licenses. Some of the data bases are linked to a MapInfo
based GIS system enabling the generation of maps. This capacity has aided the Division in preparing not
only data documentation and reports, but also display materials for promotions to industry at international
conferences.
The development of the IT system and the training of the professional staff in its use has enabled the
widespread use of computers for many applications. The capacity to collect and compile data, and adapt
economic models to make useful and meaningful economic analyses of data has been particularly enhanced.
As a result of the capacity enhancement and a greater understanding of the sector arising from their
training, the Petroleum Division has been better able to manage the petroleum sector and promote
investment in sector development. Investments during the course of this project, during the six-year period
from 1995 to 2000, have been around US$ 503 million in exploration and US$ 752 million in development
(annual figures in Annex 9). During the same period, the State has received US$ 915 million as tax and
royalty (annual figures in Annex 10) on production of 190 million barrels of oil valued at US$ 3.77 billion.
For the same period the petroleum sector's contribution to GDP and export earnings (annex 11) was
respectively US$ 2.8 billion (PNG kina 5.87 billion), and US$ 3.77 billion (PNG Kina 6.71 billion).
(d)   to formulate better standards for safe and efficient storage, handling and transportation of
petroleum products. In the absence any prior standards, the standards for safe and efficient storage,
handling and transportation of petroleum products were compiled. These were then handed to the National
Institute of Standards and Industrial Technology (NISIT) for their review and adoption as PNG standards.
(e)   to evaluate the potential for commercial development of natural gas reserves for LNG export,
develop an appropriate framework for gas development and present the results in international
seminars to attract investment. The evaluations, framework development and presentations were
completed thus fulfilling this objective. However, market changes will necessitate ongoing re-evaluations,
adjustments to the framework as necessary and continued promotion. Building on earlier work where the
Petroleum Division assessed the gas reserves of PNG, a thorough evaluation of the potential for
commercial development of such reserves was undertaken. It was not limited to just LNG export, but
considered all possibilities. (More details are given in Outputs by Components below). Associated with
this, was the development of an appropriate policy framework for gas development, which has been
discussed above. Numerous papers were given at select regional conferences to raise the awareness of the
gas development opportunities. Resulting from these efforts, two major schemes for gas development have
been under consideration during the course of the project. They were the export of LNG to Asian markets
and the pipeline transmission of gas to Queensland, Australia. Whilst these schemes competed for some
time, having different industry proponents, the prospect of LNG export has receded due to Asian financial
crisis while the markets in Queensland have been stimulated by a growing awareness of the extent of PNG's
gas resource, and the Government's policies for its development.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Mining and Petroleum (now DPE)
This was substantially achieved both organizationally and professionally within the Petroleum Division.
Institutional strengthening was the main feature of this project and through a variety of implementation
efforts it has been substantially achieved. The implementation strategy involved the creation of the
Petroleum Division (Annex 12) with a spread of expertise grouped in five branches covering petroleum
-6 -



geo-science, engineering, economics, law, titles management, and community affairs. The professionals
have received extensive training through a technical collaboration agreement with the British Geological
Survey (BGS). The BGS provided 257 man-months of expertise for training, which included 472 seminars
and 61 formal courses along with responsible advice on industry issues.
For this, the BGS deployed a multi-discipline team of experts who resided in the Petroleum Division
alongside National counterparts. Their remit was to provide responsible advice, technical assistance and
on-the-job training. Aside from the large number of seminars and courses, the experts engaged the
counterparts in the context of day to day work of the Division. This was organized along with other training
activities as tasks documented in project task forms (PTFs). The tasks undertaken are listed in Annex 13.
It is through this methodology that, the Government's capacity to manage petroleum sector investment
activities has been enhanced. The overall skills base of the Petroleum Division has been enhanced in
evaluation of petroleum resources, promotion of the resource for investment, management of exploration
and development activities, development planning, economic analysis of projects, regulation and monitoring
of the industry, and related community affairs. Select management training and the widespread introduction
of information technology (IT) have produced enormous changes in the ability of the Petroleumn Division to
conduct its sector business, and business in general.
Studies and Promotions
The designated studies were substantially completed apart from the refinery study which became redundant
due to the availability of willing investment in the establishment of refining capacity from several
proponents. Additional appropriate studies were initiated on selected matters. The studies conducted under
the project are listed in Annex 14. Prominent studies and their impact on sector development are briefly
discussed as follows.
Seismic Hazard Study
In view of PNG's high seismicity, a special study was conducted on the impact of seismic events on
possible gas facilities locations and pipeline routes. The study concluded that northerly locations and routes
are distinctly more hazardous and, that in the longer term, the possibility of a major disruptive event greater
than Richter magnitude 8 was likely. As concepts for LNG development had envisaged gas being piped
from the Highlands to a LNG plant near Wewak on the north coast, this was an important finding.
Southerly pipeline systems and plant locations are therefore preferred.
LNG and Gas Utilization Study
A comprehensive analysis of gas development options was undertaken to select viable schemes. Two viable
schemes ernerged and were studied in detail: pipeline transportation of Gas to Queensland (GTQ) and LNG
export to Asian markets. The study concluded that:
*   only large-scale gas export projects will enable PNG gas development to take place,
* both the LNG project and the GTQ project are financially viable, and technically and environmentally
feasible,
*   there are sufficient gas reserves in PNG to allow both the LNG and GTQ projects to proceed,
*   the GTQ project is an opportunity unlikely to re-occur in the medium term,
*   a LNG project would not likely start until at least 2006 and would face stiff competition from other
regional LNG projects and recent financial contraction in Asia will most likely delay start-up,
*   each project would bring immnense benefits to PNG in terms of income tax revenue, royalty payments,
landowner income, permanent ermployment for PNG nationals, upgrading of infrastructure and general
economic activity,
-7-



*   the return to the PNG nation from the projects is commensurate with that received from gas projects in
other countries,
*   both projects would employ very large numbers of PNG nationals for construction activities,
*   the two projects are not in conflict,
*   the GTQ project will produce large amounts of LPG for export or local use,
*   PNG stands to gain much and lose little through strong public support of both projects, and
* both projects need public and government support to succeed.
Standards for Safe Storage and Transport of Petroleum Products
Regional standards were reviewed and appropriate standards selected and compiled. A draft of the
compiled standards was submitted to the National Institute of Standards and Industrial Technology where
the Unit Standards and Calibration Committee is reviewing the proposed standards before forwarding them
to the Standards Advisory Board with a recommendation for adoption as a PNG Standard.
Promotion of PNG's petroleum prospectivitv
Promotion of PNG's petroleum prospectivity and development opportunities has been undertaken through
the vehicle of regional and international petroleum conferences. This has variously entailed the delivery of
papers on PNG's petroleum industry, poster displays and exhibitions. Typically, senior professional staff
of the Petroleum Division have manned the exhibition booths whilst the Secretary, Deputy Secretary or
Director have delivered papers. The visibility of PNG representatives at such events has raised the profile
of PNG in international petroleum industry and fostered good industry contacts. Valuable training and
experience has been gained by the professional staff of the Division through such participation. This
approach has been cost-effective, rewarding and sustainable. A list of conferences where such promotions
were carried out is given in Annex 15.
Equipment and Support Facilities
The provision of equipment and support facilities was judiciously and wisely used to advance the
Petroleum Division's capacity to conduct its business thus meeting the objective. The Petroleum Division
has received substantial benefit from the acquisition of equipment and support facilities under this project.
A Local Area Network (LAN) has been installed providing both Intranet and Internet capacities to all staff.
Data bases have been erected on the LAN server and peripherals linked for the production of digital plots,
plans and maps. The LAN is also connected to the Government Wide Area Network (WAN) through the
Department of Finance and Treasury server. Additional office space was provided through the installation
of modular office units allowing the Division to consolidate with departmental management in one location
and provide office space for additional staff. The core storage facility was rehabilitated with the installation
of a two story racking system; this allowed the repatriation of substantial volumes of oil well core and
cuttings samples from overseas repositories. A laboratory for analyses was installed for use by licensees,
students and the Petroleum Division. Geophysical archives previously located in Australia and contained on
a vast number of deteriorating magnetic tapes were transcribed onto Exabyte tapes and delivered together
with tape copying facilities to the Petroleum Division.
Training
A very large amount of training was provided through a variety of modes, though more training will
necessarily be required in gas industry matters, in specialist fields and to new recruits as they join the
Petroleum Division. Whilst most training was conducted in the context of institutional strengthening and
the concomitant on-the-job training by the experts, National staff were also dispatched as appropriate for
overseas training and education. Four professionals undertook post-graduate studies at overseas
universities; two cadet-professionals studied for bachelors degrees; and 20 extemal course-places were
- 8 -



taken up by the professional staff in a wide variety of petroleum disciplines.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Prior to the project, the Govermnent's responsibilities for petroleum exploration and development
management were spread amongst the various branches and divisions of the former Department of Minerals
and Energy. Some functions were bunched together with mining industry management, and accordingly
there was a lack of sector focus. No single division had coherent and overall responsibility for petroleum
matters. With the advent of oil production in 1992, it became imperative to consolidate and strengthen the
Government's capacity to manage the petroleum sector.
The institutional development strategy for this involved the creation of the Petroleum Division as a basis
for project implementation. As a Bank requirement for project support, the Petroleum Division was
established in January 1993 within the Department with a spread of expertise grouped in five branches
covering petroleum geo-science, engineering, economics, law, titles management, and community affairs.
Subsequently, building upon the successful development of the Petroleum Division supported by the
project, the petroleum functions were separated entirely from the mining sector functions and a full-fiedged
Department of Petroleum and Energy established. The Petroleum Division remains intact and represents the
main body of professionals in the Departnent.
The project was implemented at a time of rapid sector development during which many demands were made
on the Government. Without the support of the project, the Division may easily have been swamped. The
project provided the necessary capability enhancement to the Division. This resulted in better assessment of
license holder's work programs, approvals of development plans, promotion of petroleum potential,
evaluation of oil field performance and monitoring of development costs. The capacity enhancement also
helped to anneal the sector understanding of the National professional officers as the Division sought to
keep pace with sector development.
The Government's petroleum entity of 1985 was just a small group of geologists and a petroleum license
registrar comprising the Petroleum Resources Assessment Group in the Department of Minerals and
Energy. The Department of Petroleum and Energy, of which the Petroleum Division is the main component,
has thus come a long way. The simplistic focus on exploration and licensing has shifted in response to
development and production and the consequent impact on the economy and communities. This wider focus
has embraced policy, socioeconomic and legal aspects that have become increasingly necessary for sector
development. With the project having a prime objective to assist in the development of an improved
framework of regulatory and ownership policies, it was thus able to inject timely support and advice in
these areas.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Oil price volatility necessarily affected the levels of sector investment during the course of project
implementation. The volatility has been of such amplitude that the project's impact on sector development
might be perceived to be overridden were investments in the sector to be a measure of outcome. Whilst the
project had a prime objective to increase investment in the petroleum sector and Govemment revenue, oil
-9-



prices necessarily are a key industry determinant.
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) agreed with the Bank in 1995 impacted the project. The recruitment of
additional professional staff for the Petroleum Division was delayed on account of Public Service cuts and
blanket freezes on recruitment. However, the Govemment did whatever it could to provide as many
counterpart staff as possible by saving the Petroleum Division from staff cuts. It also permitted the
Departmnent of Petroleum and Energy, on its inception, to create a support services division through which
economists and lawyers were recruited and then permanently seconded to the Policy Branch of the
Petroleum Division. Notwithstanding this, unrealized staff expansion necessarily diminished the greater
imnpact that the training might have achieved. The Petroleum Division had formnulated plans for a 35%
increase in staff establishment, but despite being timely, the mandated freezes thwarted this development.
Staff attrition took place during the course of the project leading to the loss of 15 professionals to the
industry. During a period of high industry interest and investment little could be done to mitigate the
attraction of jobs in the corporate scene of the oil companies. Whilst special domestic market allowances
ranging from 40-50% of base salary were introduced to improve staff emoluments, these did little to stem
the attrition. Only now with reduced industry activity and reduced corporate presence has the attrition
stopped. The consequent impact on the institution is that new staff had to be trained and overall training
targets reduced. The advent of gas development and the infusion of billions of dollars of investment capital
will likely resurrect staff attrition as new and exciting opportunities open up with industry.
As the Petroleum sector represents a significant portion of the economy, impacted communities have made
increased demands for a share of the sector benefits. These demands have at times inundated the Petroleum
Division, particularly at management level, distracting it from core sector issues: licensing, work program
negotiation, promotions of prospectivity, data receipt and curation, development negotiations and policy
formulation. Despite this distraction, with the help of the project, the Division has achieved significant
sector development.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Some non-critical delays were encountered in contract processing which has entailed gaining legal opinions
on contract from the State Solicitor's office prior to execution by the Minister for Finance and Treasury.
The recruitment of staff requires the approval of the Department of Personnel Management (DPM) who
require evidence of funding before recruitment to vacant position and establishment of new positions.
Meanwhile the Department of Finance and Treasury requires DPM's approval of positions before budget
allocations are made. This creates a needless impasse, which requires tenacious management to
successfully achieve the desired recruitment.
Overall, central Government agencies have been supportive of the project. The Department of Finance and
Treasury, and the Department of National Planning and Monitoring have shared the vision of the Petroleum
Division and increasingly worked closely and effectively towards project implementation.
In the early part of the project, three officers were seconded from the Internal Revenue Commission (IRC)
to the Policy Branch of the Petroleum Division. Whilst seconded, they were trained in petroleum matters.
Although the secondees subsequently took up positions in the Petroleum Division, and so represented loss
of staff for the IRC, a lasting and valuable working relationship has been forged between the IRC and the
Petroleum Division.
- 10-



Early in the course of project implementation, it was realized that the general level of education and
graduate competency was lower than might be expected. Therefore, allied with management training an
attempt was made to raise general competencies and skills whilst specific attention had to be paid to core
skills in the different graduate disciplines that might otherwise been learnt at university. This has
necessarily impacted the expected outcome of training initiatives contained in the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
From the outset, the Petroleum Division focused on project implementation, quickly establishing processes
for project operation. A task-based worlk system was devised to serve as a management and reporting tool.
Project activities were captured on Project Task Forms (PTF) which provided an accountable process for
training in the context of the Petroleum Division's business.
The project commenced activities upon receipt of advances from the Government and a Special Account
advance from the project loan. These were consolidated in a single account with the central bank- the Bank
of Papua New Guinea. This quickly became unsatisfactory and wisely the project management segregated
its funds into two separate accounts with a reputable commercial bank. At this time, as the volume of
project financial transactions was increasing, they elected to engage outsourced supervision of accounts and
a competent accounting firm was engaged thenceforth for this purpose.
In line with the Govermment's localization plans, during the course of the project the Director's position
was localized. The Assistant Director, E]xploration, who had been the National understudy of the Director,
took up the post. Such a move attempted to promote management sustainability. However, shortly
thereafter the incumbent was promoted to the position of Deputy Secretary of the Department and the
Assistant Director, Policy took over as the Director of the Division. The subsequent change in Director was
perhaps too rapid, nevertheless a process of inline promotion and appointment of National Directors has
been finmly established.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The equipment category of the loan financing was substantially reduced (from US$ 3.9 to US$ 1.6 mnillion)
permitting an increase in the consultant services category. The emergence of compact high-speed desktop
computers (PCs) negated the necessity for installation of main frame computers of considerable cost.
Additionally, the Petroleum Division installed only limited laboratory facilities and equipment, as the
estimated volume of use did not warranit elaborate facilities. Nevertheless, the Petroleum Division today has
IT facilities commensurate with intemational business standards and appropriate laboratory facilities for
the needs.
The reorientation of funds enabled substantially more training to be conducted and advice to be provided,
particularly in the area of policy development.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
With the passage of the Oil and Gas Act by Parliament, the improved policy and regulatory framework is
set. Implementation of the provisions of the new legislation is now very much the focus of the work of the
professionals in the Division who have been trained under the project.
The Petroleum Division is now well established, well known and respected amongst Government agencies.
It is considered a source of reliable inf.ormation and is widely consulted. The envelopment of the Petroleum
Division as the cornerstone of the Department of Petroleurn and Energy has added weight to its stature.
-11 -



The Division matured during the project as the staff obtained greater ownership of the Division's business
demonstrating a keenness to enhance their skills. Staff attrition has ceased, largely due to diminished
opportunities in industry. This has enabled the Division to consolidate its staff and obtain more institutional
memory. The project has exposed the professionals to a wide variety of training and industrial experience.
This should translate into a very sound career base in the sector for those prepared to build upon it.
Some tangible items that will have an enduring effect on the sector management are: a) the adoption of IT
systems and databases; b) the rehabilitation of the core store facility; and c) the transcription and delivery
of the geophysical data base to its sovereign home; and d) the introduction of improved cost data reporting
formats, in coordination with the IRC and other Government agencies.
Of particular importance has been the local area network (LAN), its links to the Government wide area
network (WAN) and peripherals to support data output. This has created a business environment to
international industry standards and has been a great help in enhancing the capacity for business output of
the professionals.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was designed to enhance the capacity of the Petroleum Division in the course of regular
operations and performance of its duties. This institutional strengthening supported it during the early stage
of sector development and has left the Division operationally ready.
Nevertheless, sector development is an interminable process and will necessitate continuous updating of
skills and know-how. The follow-up Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project would
specifically seek to enhance the Division's skills in gas matters in preparation for impending gas
development.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As early as 1984, the Bank commented on the necessity for the Government to obtain petroleum expertise
and consolidate petroleum functions into a single operational division (Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program Report No. 023/84). The project pre-appraisal mission (November, 1991) emphasized
this need and the establishment of the Petroleum Division was made a necessary precursor for the project.
This was a key step in the institutional development for managing the sector.
The Bank helped the Government in project design realizing the necessity for the sector to be properly
managed given the development of the country's first oil field. The project design concept centered on the
provision of a team of experts to provide responsible advice on sector management concomitant with
on-the-job training. This would bring about the required institutional development in parallel with sector
management. Such an approach alleviated the difficulty of recruiting foreign expertise into line positions
thus freeing up those positions for national recruitment whilst providing them appropriate guidance and
training.
7.2 Supervision:
Implementation progress was documented in the supervision mission aide memoires attached to which were
detailed tables of tasks undertaken. The project dispatched sector information regularly to the Bank
together with project updates. Increasingly, communication through e-mail has enabled sector and project
- 12 -



information to be provided in a timely manner. Equally the Bank's approvals, recommendations and
requirements have been served.
Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) are considered to have been realistic. Compliance with loan covenants
was regularly monitored and no lasting infringements were realized. Necessary modifications were made to
loan categories, closing date and project components after due assessments during supervision missions and
taking into account sector evolution. Mission preparations and prompts to the implementing agency were
timely and greatly aided Bank/Borrower partnership. [ The QAG-Rapid Supervision Assessment (RSA 3)
of FY 99 found the project particularly well supervised in that year].
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Taking into account the assistance provided in project preparation, particularly the advice regarding
institutional framework, project design and supervision of its implementation, overall Bank performance is
rated as highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Following the Bank's advice, the Government created the Petroleum Division, consolidating all petroleum
functions in the Division. Also, the Government upgraded the positions of the National professional staff
thus improving the benefit package to attract the best possible candidates for these positions.
The Departmnent of Mining and Petroleum worked closely with the Bank mission and clearly identified the
areas of skills upgrading, the number of National professional staff to be trained, and the mechanisms of
technology transfer. Full details of the project as planned were contained in the Government's Project
Formulation Document.
The process of loan negotiations, signing and effectiveness was delayed, however, as the Government
needed more time for internal reviews and clearances.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite the financial stringency prevailing at the commencement of the project, the recruitment of staff for
the Petroleum Division was proceeded with, albeit at a slower pace. However, attrition of staff trained
under the project was not forestalled; indeed, some of the most experienced and qualified staff were lost to
the Division. Though improvements were made to the staff remuneration, they were not introduced in a
timely or ready manner.
Adequate provision of counterpart funds was maintained. Every effort was made to comply with the
covenants under the loan, (e.g. when the Auditor General was not able to field officers to audit the project
financial statements in a timely manner, the Petroleum Division engaged a reputable international firm to
conduct an audit).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Department of Mining and Petroleum (later divided into the Department of Petroleum and Energy
[DPE] and the Department of Mineral Resources [DMR]) had the overall responsibility for implementing
the project However, the project's home was the Petroleum Division, its Director being the Project
Manager, and the Division being the beneficiary of the project. DPE was very supportive of the project.
Localization of and succession to the position of Director, Petroleum Division, mid-stream of
- 13 -



implementation, was smoothly carried out. The Division, nevertheless, subsequently engaged an adviser to
assist the Director and Project Manager with regular business and project implementation.
The Petroleum Division maintained a focus on implementation (schedule in Annex 17) throughout the
project despite occasional set backs and delays. This focus was driven by the project management who
devised implementation activities to be consistent with the objectives and project components that also
served the needs of the Division. An example was the adoption of IT systems to modemize the work and
business environment of the Division.
Early in implementation, it was realized that more attention would have to be paid to the book keeping and
accounting functions. The Division, pragmatically, introduced immediate remedies by outsourcing
necessary services. Such pragmatism was exemplified throughout the project.
The emphasis on getting things done stimulated the Division to take increasing responsibility for sector
matters and indicated to other government departments and agencies that it was serious about its business.
The judicious use of the project components to address developmental issues substantially aided
achievement of the project objectives e.g., Gobe oilfield development: landowner policy work and State
participation negotiation. In such manner alignment of project and Government objectives was fostered.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is assessed to be satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Objectives should not be included that are extraneous to the implementing agency's responsibilities e.g.
inclusion of standards for storage, handling and transportation ofpetroleum products.
Objectives should not suggest or prescribe modalities of development at too early a stage e.g. framing
studies for commercial gas development by LNG export (without including other development scenarios).
Systems and procedures for project management and implementation should be in place before the
commnencement of the project and should be maintained. Their usage should be closely monitored
thoughout the project to ensure acceptable standards of project implementation. Organized implementation
of project activities through defined documentation such as the Project Task Form (PTF) is most usefiul for
management control.
Contracts for goods and services should, as far as possible, be denominated in the currency of the loan to
avoid impacts from exchange rate fluctuations and consequent costs variations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The report of the Borrower follows. It concludes (page 25) that the project was not only timely in its
support of the Government's efforts to manage the sector, but was a vital contributor to the success of the
first decade of petroleum production in Papua New Guinea.
- 14 -



Implementation Completion Report
Petroleum Exploration & Development Technical Assistance Project
IBRD Loan 3670-PNG
Prepared by the Petroleum Division
Department of Petroleum and Energy
Government of Papua New Guinea
January 2001
Background
Petroleum exploration efforts have taken place in Papua New Guinea over many decades. The first reports
of oil seeps along the Vailala River in the Gulf Province as far back as 1911 aroused the interests of the
petroleum industry. The recognition of many such seeps throughout the Papuan Basin together with the
similarity of the PNG's geology to that of lran, stimulated many valiant and heroic exploration efforts. The
first gas discovery was made at the Kuru 1 well in 1956, but the well blew-out and had to be abandoned,
whilst the first oil discovery was made discovery at the Puri-I well in 1958, but it watered out after three
days. In 1968, a major gas-condensate discovery was made offshore in the Gulf of Papua at the Pasca
well, but onshore no substantial oil discoveries were forthcoming. The responsibilities for managing
pre-Independence activities lay with the agencies of the Federal Government of Australia, such as the
Bureau of Mineral Resources.
In the post-Independence years, exploration activities waned, as the subsidy for exploration that had been
available from the Commonwealth Government of Australia was no longer available. The Government
resolved to encourage further exploration and the Parliament passed the Petroleum Act in 1977. In 1980,
the then Department of Minerals and Energy (DME) that was responsible for petroleum matters, requested
the World Bank to provide it with technical assistance as it desired to establish a better understanding of
petroleum resource evaluation and management. In November 1992, in preparation for such, the Petroleun
Resources Assessment Group was established within the Geological Survey with responsibilities for
exploration monitoring, data management and licensing. The World Bank was receptive to the request for
assistance, and the Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project was approved for funding through
IDA Credit 1279-PNG. Additional co-financing was sought and obtained from the OPEC Fund with Loan
312P.
Concurrent exploration activities gave rise to the significant, but non-commercial Juha gas-condensate
discovery in the Westem Province in 1982, further demonstrating the petroleum potential of PNG. At the
same time, the disastrous blowout of the Pasca A-3 appraisal well at the offshore Pasca gas-condensate
discovery emphasised the need for the Government to enhance the monitoring and management of
petroleum industry activities.
The Petroleum Exploration project aimed to improve the investment attractiveness of PNG to petroleum
explorers and to enhance the DME's institutional capabilities. It was highly focussed on the promotion of
the upstream exploration potential of Papua New Guinea and involved the acquisition and organisation of
existing historic exploration data and its geological and geophysical reassessment for the promotion of
investment. Allied to these activities was the training of National officers in petroleum exploration, the
construction of an office by the Government, and the acquisition of a storage facility to house well samples.
In 1986, the Petroleum Resources Asisessment Group was made a full Branch of the Geological Survey in
- 15-



recognition of its advancement. Most importantly, around the same time, PNG's first commercial oil
discovery was made onshore at the Iagifu 2X well in the Southern Highlands.
The Petroleum Exploration Project closed in June 30, 1988 having collated and organised the existing
petroleum data; completed the assessment of the petroleum prospectivity of Papua New Guinea; and having
accomplished promotion of such to the industry. Three geologists, one engineer and one technical officer
received extensive training under the project. Exploration intensity had substantially increased during the
course of the project and was further spurred by discovery; there were just seven licences in 1982 and some
forty-two in 1988.
At close of the Petroleum Exploration Project, the Petroleum Branch had a staff of twelve professional
officers comprised on seven Nationals and five expatriates, and had developed a sound reputation.
Whilst the Petroleum Exploration Project can reasonably be credited with establishing the basic framework
for the management and administration of petroleum exploration, the impact of the development of
discoveries and the consequences of oil and gas production remained to be addressed. In the wake of the
lagifu oil discovery, the international petroleum industry focussed its attention on PNG and in the four
years thereafter 58 wells were drilled at an investment of around US$ 700 million. These wells resulted in
an array of new oil and gas discoveries and the proved up the oil reserves at lagifu and in adjacent
geological structures. Significantly, major discoveries of natural gas were made. One of these, large Hides
gas field, was placed into small-scale production in late 1991 to supply gas 15 million standard cubic feet
of gas per day to the power plant for the Porgera gold mine.
The Iagifu/Hedinia and Agogo oil fields with an estimated 170 million barrels of recoverable oil reserves
were licensed in December 1990 for development in the Kutubu Petroleum Development Project. This
required establishment and construction of extensive fields facilities, a trunk oil pipeline to the coast, and
an offshore marine loading terminal in the Gulf of Papua at a total investment of US$ I billion.
Commercial oil production commenced on the June 27, 1991 and quickly rose to a peak of close to 150,000
barrels per day in 1993.
Clearly, the industry was not only in transition from exploration to production, but was expanding at a
tremendous rate, thus introducing a many new facets to the Petroleum Branch. In 1991, the Petroleum
Branch raised its needs with the World Bank and pre-appraisal discussions were held for the possible
fimding of a project. Such a project was conceived to assist the institutional development of the Petroleum
Division in a broader spectrum of petroleum disciplines and pave the way for further investment in
petroleum sector development.
Obiectives of the Proiect
Rationale
With the discovery of oil in commercial quantities, and its subsequent development, the petroleum industry
in PNG had clearly and dramatically entered a new phase. No longer was production just a distant
possibility. The transition to oil exporter was to be a tough test of the country's admiinistrative capabilities
and attitudes towards foreign. During this period of transition from passive observation of exploration
activities to direct and beneficial involvement in production, there were three basic necessities for the
Government. These were: a) to ensure that, as much as possible, petroleum developments were designed
and implemented in ways which were in the country's best long term interest; b) strict adherence to a solid
and reasonable policy framework, (the most important parts of which already existed, but the other parts of
- 16 -



which needed to be developed); c) the avoidance of radical policy changes which might be seemingly
beneficial to the State in the short-term, but damaging to the long-term development of petroleum in the
country (especially through discouragernent of foreign investment), and d) the thorough and expeditious
processing of exploration and development approvals.
To meet these objectives, PNG needed to have the capability in its Public Service to deal with the many
sector issues effectively and face the international oil companies with confidence. Of equal importance, was
the fact that a Public Service, which demonstrated a very strong understanding of and ability to deal with
the issues, would help allay undue suspicions about developers and be able to effectively deal with
initiatives for darnaging changes in policy. This would be brought about by vigorous efforts to train
Nationals in petroleum matters and bring them into responsible positions with the Public Service. The lack
of National petroleum expertise in the irnportant policy and development areas needed to be redressed.
Need for the Project
With the considerable assistance of the Exploration Project, the Petroleum Branch had geared up
reasonably successfully for the increased scale of exploration activity. It now had to prepare for what was
the logical outcome of that activity - thle even more complex phase of development and production which
would present policy and technical issues which had never before been faced in PNG and for which its
public service was ill-equipped to address.
The Department proposed that the a new project - the Petroleum Exploration and Development TA Project
would be needed to fully meet the Department's technical assistance needs in the development phase as well
as to continue the appropriate efforts in the promotion of exploration.
The Kutubu Project had recently cormnenced production. It was therefore vital that the State geared up
immediately, so that it would be able to cope with the vast array of complex regulatory, technical and
policy decisions relating to this huge project and other forthcomning developments.
Philosophy of the Project
The greatly increased level of petroleum exploration in PNG and the impending petroleum developments
gave the project increased importance. The conduct of the project required highly specialised skills which
could only be met by the use of foreign experts either as advisers or within study teams. The Government
had had considerable difficulty attracting highly qualified petroleum personnel under employment
arrangements and this problem was seen to get worse as the sector developed. At the same time, rnajor
advantages were seen in having a strong on site staff so as to: a) produce cost effective and realistic results;
b) establish strong in-house capabilities and consequent continuity of knowledge; and c) to maximise
knowledge transfer to Nationals.
The pernanent transfer of vital skills and knowledge to Papua New Guineans was to be a prominent and
explicit goal of the project. This was seen as being best being achieved through onsite, on the job,
instruction supplemented, but not replaced by, and formal training courses.
Detailed Objectives
The objectives of the project were as follows:
(a) to assist in the development of an improved framework of regulatory and ownership policies that
- 17 -



would increase investment in the petroleum sector and Government revenue;
(b) to strengthen the capacity of the Government for comprehensive management of petroleum exploration
and development;
(c) to upgrade the capacity of the Government to gather, process, analyse and market to international
investors exploration and development data on the sector;
(d) to formulate better standards for safe and efficient storage, handling and transportation of petroleum
products; and
(e) to evaluate the potential for commercial development of natural gas reserves for LNG export, develop
an appropriate framework for gas development, and present the results in international seminars to
attract investment.
Project Components
The project included the following components to achieve the objectives:
(a)   Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Mining and Petroleum (now Department of
Petroleum and Energy) through employment of experts in petroleum geology, archive management,
geophysics, reservoir engineering, production engineering, drilling, pipeline and facilities engineering,
petroleum economics and legal and fiscal policies; the experts to provide responsible advice and technical
assistance, and concomitant with this, to provide on-the-job training to national officers;
(b)    Studies and promotions involving provision of experts and services to: (i) conduct studies on
location, size, product mix and feasibility of a petroleum refnery, and the feasibility of LNG export; (ii)
organise and conduct international seminars to promote LNG export; and (iii) compile appropriate
standards for safe handling, storage and transportation of petroleum products;
(c)    Equipment and support facilities to enhance the capability of DMP (now DPE) in monitoring and
analysing petroleum exploration and development activities through the provision of: (i) a computer system
with appropriate hardware and software; and (ii) laboratory equipment.
(d)    Training: (i) activities would involve post-graduate studies of nine nationals in foreign universities
in various petroleum disciplines and intemships with operating companies; and (ii) training of six nationals
as laboratory technicians.
Implementation
Project Management
The Petroleum Division which was created in 1993, and which succeeded the Petroleum Branch
implemented the project. The Project Manager was the Director of the Petroleum Division. The main mode
of implementation was through a technical collaboration contract with an institution of international
reputation namely, the British Geological Survey (BGS). The BGS, in collaboration with several other
entities, was able to provide a team of petroleum professionals with expertise in a wide variety of
disciplines.
Technical Collaboration
The team of experts provided by the BGS provided responsible advice on petroleum sector issues and
project implementation as well as providing an extensive programme of on-the-job training to the national
officers. The diversity of expertise deployed reflected the wide range of skills that needed to be enhanced.
Whilst the project in design had identified the need to training in core petroleum industry technical
disciplines, such as petroleum geology and engineering, and commercial disciplines such as petroleum law
- 18 -



and econornics, training solely of such a kind was not enough. Considerable resources within the technical
collaboration arrangement were given to information technology as well as business and management skills.
The team's IT experts promoted the installation of a Local Area Network (LAN) linked to the Government'
s Wide Area Network (WAN) which provided universal email access for the staff and selected internet
access. This has been a lasting legacy of the technical collaboration that has made a dramatic impact on the
Petroleum Division's capacity to carry out its business capacity. The network design, procurement,
installation and commissioning was carried out under the supervision of IT experts from the team.
The technical collaboration provided 22 mnany-years of expert advice and training to an average of 33
professional staff over a four year period. A total of 472 seminars and 61 courses were delivered through
the technical collaboration. Daily interaction between team members and the counterpart staff of the
Petroleum Division varied in extent and quality. The ability of the foreign experts to understand the staff
training needs and requirements and the willingness of the counterparts staff to solicit and submit to
training was also variable. Some team members excelled in their training efforts whilst others excelled in
the provision of technical advice. A balance was sought and obtained through the constant intervention of
the project manager.
The technical collaboration team varied in strength according to the training requirement and the phase of
the training up to a maximum of ten. The team composition changed during course of the project reflecting
the implementation emphasis and sector priorities, particularly in respect to work on improving the policy
framework.
The capacity of any one organisation to deliver such a broad range of expertise was indeed a challenge.
The British Geological Survey has distinguished capabilities and particular strengths in petroleum geology
and geophysics, but depended very much on other entities to assist them with other disciplines. Some
personnel were especially contracted for the purpose of the technical collaboration whilst others were
out-sourced from specialist companies. This tended to provide a variable level of experience, commitment,
quality, and suitability of expertise amcngst the team members. At the request of the project management
there were therefore several changes of team personnel during the course of the technical collaboration.
This was an important indication of ownership. Some difficulties were found in achieving a balance
between desired the academic excellence of the team members, their ability to transfer skills and their
knowledge of the petroleum sector. Often, a compromise was made between these required attributes.
Nevertheless, the residency of the team despite its variable make-up provided an umbrella of technical
collaboration for an enduring period of four years.
Another feature that indicated strong project ownership, was the constant re-focussing of the technical
collaboration to make sure that the thrust of training and advice matched the sector development needs.
With the transition to oil production being relatively new, much of the petroleum law and policy of PNG
was being tested for the first time, and sector development required extensive work on new policy
formulation and refinement. The technical collaboration team members were therefore thrust into providing
operational advice to address such sector development needs instead of just theorising and training staff
without reference to sector activities and Government priorities. The project management thus got the
technical collaboration team and their counterparts very much involved. One feature of the project
implementation was that the staff of ihe Petroleum Division ostensibly managed the project themselves;
there was no removed project implem.entation unit divorced from the Divisional management. Whilst the
technical Collaboration team were present to training the professional staff and provide responsible advice,
they were not allowed to usurp the authority of the line officers. This may have given rise to some
inefficiency and some delays, but ownership was thus enhanced. The ability of the Petroleum Division
officers to discern the strengths and weakness of the technical collaboration team was an indicator of this.
- 19-



Nevertheless, the persistence and tenacity of the Technical Collaboration team provided a counterbalance to
unplanned use or dismissal of their activities by the professional staff.
Some concerns were expressed that the cost of the technical collaboration was unduly high. These concerns
failed to recognise the significant work in maintenance and administration of the team, particularly the
provision of considerable flexibility by the collaborator, who willing replaced several staff upon the request
of the Project Manager and who provided specialist team mnembers whenever they were required. Currency
movements in made an impact as the collaborator negotiated a contract in British pounds. Unfortunately,
the British pound substantially strengthened detrimentally against the US dollar during the course of the
project raising the cost of the technical collaboration. Overall, the technical collaboration team provided
good value and represented themselves in a professional manner.
External Courses and Post Graduate Studies
Much of the training was provided in the context of institutional strengthening and the deployrnent of
resident experts for on-the-job training. However, external training was also provided. Four professionals
undertook post-graduate studies at overseas universities; two cadet-professionals studied for bachelors
degrees; and twenty external course-places were taken up by the professional staff in a wide variety of
petroleum disciplines.
LNG and Gas Utilisation Study
Using the expertise of the pipeline and Facilities Engineer of the Technical Collaboration Team a detailed
Cost, Time and Resources (CTR) catalogue was constructed for a study on natural gas utilisation. The
study was bid out to pre-qualified international engineering firms of repute in gas engineering, and the
study was awarded to Worley Ltd. The study was tightly controlled by the CTR catalogue and was
produced in a most timely and accountable manner. Its findings were fed straight into the Government's
Task Force on Natural Gas Utilisation and its subsequent report and advice to the Government. This was a
good example of the project components meeting project objectives whilst matching sector requirements.
Refinery studies
The refinery studies were dropped following the endorsement by the Government of several plans for the
development of a refinery by investors. In view of the existing development agreements for these refineries,
after consultation with the Dept. of Trade and Industry, the project management elected to drop the
proposed studies on refinery development. The Bank concurred with this as it seemed somewhat futile to be
studying refinery development opportunities to promote investment in such when already there was
confirmed and agreed investment.
Standards for Handling Petroleum Products
This study was included in the project design and formulation only as a result of the suggestions of early
pre-appraisal Bank missions. It did not correctly fit the functions of the Department as they were at the
time of project launch, although the need was clearly present for standards to be produced. This work was
well removed from the upstream concentration of the Petroleum Division. Nevertheless, the study was
undertaken and a system of standards was put together and endorsed to the PNG Institute of Standards.
Seismic Hazard Evaluation for Gas Projects
-20 -



As the petroleum industry became interested in natural gas development arising from the work and
subsequent promulgation of the Government's on gas policy, the opportunity to supply gas to east Asian
markets was aggressively pursued by BP and Esso the then licenses of the Hides gas field. The conceptual
scheme envisaged a pipeline transporting gas from the Southem Highlands to a location on the north coast
of PNG where a liquefaction plant and LNG loading terminal would be constructed for export of LNG to
such markets. It was perceived that a LNG plant located on the northem coast of PNG being nearer to
markets than one located on the Gulf of Papua coast could have a distinct economic advantage. However, it
was noted that the northem part of PNG was an area of high seismicity. A specialist study was therefore
undertaken to screen the seismic hazard and ascertain the potential seismic risk. This study looked at all
potential routes for pipelines and sites for the location of LNG terminals. It was conducted by an
international seismic expert with extensive experience in PNG and concluded that the hazard for a northerly
pipeline and north coast LNG plant was considerable. The costs associated with mitigation of such
increased risk as opposed to that of a southerly route and site balanced economic advantage. This study
was a practical example of the project vitally contributing to the assessment of gas development
opportunities.
Other studies
Two studies were directly and intimately related to the training and capacity building of the staff and the
promotion of opportunities of investment in petroleum exploration. These were a study of the internal fold
and thrust belt of the Papuan Basin and a review of the potential of the North New Guinea basin.
Two specialist fluvial hydrological studies were undertaken to assess the impact of petroleum infrastructure
on the Mubi River and the Kikori River where communities had complained variously of undue flooding
and sedimentation. These studies were commissioned through the technical collaboration team and involved
the Petroleum Division in field visits and follow workshops with landowners.
Seismic Data Transfer
The historic seisrnic data arising from exploration efforts undertaken during the time of the Australian
colonial administration were deposited by the Bureau of Mineral Resources with the Australian Archives in
Sydney. In the post-Independence years, the Australian Govemment permitted PNG to continue using the
Australian Archives as their repository for seismic data. However, in the mid-1990s, the Australian
Archives were commercialised. They announced to the petroleum agencies of the various States of
Australia and PNG that they would no longer be able to offer a free service and that users would be
charged deposit, storage and retrieval fees. Additionally, users were encouraged to make their own
arrangements. This placed the PNG Government in a dilemma as almost 67,000 reels of magnetic tape and
almost 100 shelf feet of support data were stored with the Australian Archives. The Petroleum Division
commissioned an audit assessment of the data and recommendations were made for the transfer of the data
to PNG. As many. of the tapes were old and subject to deterioration and degradation over time, there was
also a need to retrieve data and to convert it into a useable and compact modem format. The Petroleum
Division therefore elected to transcribe the entire archive onto high data density Exabyte tapes. A contract
was awarded to Guardian Data Seismic Pty. Ltd. to retrieve the data from the Australian Archives, verify
the data, transcribe the existing magnetic records on to Exabyte tapes and deliver the new tapes together
with the paper support records to PNG. Also included in the contract was the provision of a tape
transcription system for the replication of the Exabyte tapes for sale of the data to the industry. This was
an extensive activity that required close monitoring and which cost around A$ 850,000. It nevertheless
addressed an urgent problem and assisted the Government in a most important core function and provided
for sovereign repository of an immense volume of very valuable seismic data. This was clearly in
- 21 -



accordance with the project objectives of upgrading the capacity of the Government to gather, process,
analyse and market to international investors exploration data on the sector.
Project Adviser
The Dept. of Petroleum and Energy was created in 1997 when the former Dept. of Mining and Petroleum
was split into two new Departments. At that time, the expatriate incumbent Director of the Petroleum
Division stood down when the position was localised by one of the senior National professional staff. As an
expedient to provide institutional continuity and to assist the new Director and his Assistant Directors, the
former Director was engaged by the Petroleum Division as Adviser to the project. This enabled the
Division to have steady and continued advice toward project implementation and sector matters utilising the
Adviser's extensive sector and country experience. The adviser also mentored the Division's staff and
management.
Equipment and Support Facilities
Information Technology
The Petroleum Division has received substantial benefit from the acquisition of equipment and support
facilities under this project. A Local Area Network (LAN) has been installed providing both Intranet and
Internet capacities to all staff Data bases have been erected on the LAN server and peripherals linked for
the production of digital plots, plans and maps. The LAN is also connected to the Government Wide Area
Network (WAN) through the Department of Finance and Treasury server. The Information Technology
systems of the Division have been maintained at a relatively high level of technology in its efforts to keep
abreast of industry standards. The existing system consists of a switched 10/lOOBaseT LAN 130 ports
spread between four buildings; each linked by an optical fibre backbone. The network supports
approximately 50 Windows NT 4.0 client Personal Computers and one Windows NT 4.0 server.
The personal computers (51) run a standard suite of Microsoft Office 97, Lotus Notes 4.6, and Norton
AntiVirus 5.0. Further to this, specialist software is used to meet specific needs within the various
Branches, such as, Wood-Mackenzie for economic modelling; DSS32 for oil production monitoring;
PNGInLaw for historical legislation and Maplnfo for spatial data analysis and storage. Support and
training in the above software has also been supplied as part of the Technical Assistance project.
Various customised database and GIS systems have also been developed as part of the project, using
Microsoft Access and Maplnfo. These systems provide various functions such as an index to paper
archives; an index to drill-core, cuttings and fluids; technical drilling information; oil and gas reserves and
production; exploration and production licensing and historical oil-price indexes.
This computer system supports the function of the Departnent in regulating and promoting the petroleum
industry in PNG and greatly aids the custodianship and archival of related documentation and data.
Pre-fabricated office space
With increasing staff numbers, the Petroleum Division faced serious problems in respect of the provision of
office accommodation. This was exacerbated by the creation of the new Department of Petroleum and
Energy in 1997 and corresponding further increases in staff. The existing buildings were becoming densely
populated and cramped. To resolve the problem, the Petroleum Division elected to purchase pre-fabricated
modular office units for installation on the vacant Government land along side the main Petroleum Division
building in the currently occupied compound. At the request of the Government, the Bank created a new
category in the Loan Agreement to provide funding for this initiative. Two units were installed providing
- 22 -



approximately 600 square meters of additional office space. The buildings were hooked up to utilities and
cabling was installed to provide for both voice and data communications. After essential furnishing, the
buildings were commissioned in early 1999..
Other equipment
The core storage facility was rehabilitated with the installation of a two-story steel racking system; this
allowed the subsequent repatriation of substantial volumes (four container loads) of PNG oil well core and
cuttings samples from the Australian Geological Survey Organisation (AGSO). AGSO had previously
stored and curated these samples of more than 50 key exploration wells dating from pre-independence
times, but had decided to no longer provide this service to PNG necessitating that PNG took custody of the
samples.
A laboratory for rock analyses was installed for use by licensees, local university students and the staff of
the Petroleum Division.
To provide for the new buildings and to ensure Y2K compliance, the existing PABX telephone exchange
was replaced with a new dual digital/analogue system and the existing communications cabling upgrade to
permit data transfer.
During the early part of the technical collaboration, the City of Port Moresby suffered widespread power
outages due to a severe drought and disrepair of the installed generating capacity. 'This severely disrupted
the program of on-the-job training and the provision of advice to the Petroleum Division. Power blackouts
of up to 4 hours per day occurring during office hours meant that the expertise was not being fully
deployed. The Petroleum Division discussed this with the Technical Collaborator who agreed to install a
200 KVA back-up generator to help alleviate the problem and to thus maintain the efficiency of the
collaboration program. This reflected true collaboration and exemplified the pragmatism of the Petroleum
Division towards project implementation.
Promotions
Allied to the generation of materials frorn the studies, the in-house appraisal of petroleum prospectivity,
and the promotion of gas development, promotions were made at twenty of international conferences.
During the term of the technical collabora,tion these promotions were made under the tutelage of the experts
who provided advice on exhibition methods and materials. In many of these promotions, technical papers
on the opportunities for investrnent in PNG's petroleum sector were presented. The value of PNG's
presence at such events cannot be overstated. The interaction with the industry during such events gives
confidence to investors. Generally, meetings with corporate representatives during conferences are followed
up by dispatch of promotional packages giving the latest information on petroleum exploration and
development opportunities in PNG
A co-ordinated effort was made to stimulate interest in exploration of the North New Guinea basin through
a formal solicitation to the international oil companies in a trial bid round. Extensive technical data was
complied, drafted, printed and dispatched to over 100 intemational oil companies. Alas, the retreat of
international oil prices to very low levels stymied interest in the opportunity despite the incentive of special
frontier tax terms for explorers entering during this time. In any event, the preparation of the materials and
the efforts was a valuable training exercise that benefited the participant staff.
Landowner Studies and Assistance
- 23 -



The project supported considerable interaction with landowners and efforts to convey the Government's
policies to communities. Two particular efforts were the project support of the forums with landowners for
the Gobe oil project and efforts to rationalise the proliferation of Incorporated Land Groups (ILGs) in the
Kikori River Basin area through which the Kutubu project oil export pipeline transits. In the case of the
Gobe oil project the involvement consisted of the deployment of an experienced negotiator and landman to
broker discussions with the communities involved and the provision of legal expertise for the conduct of the
forum meetings. The latter efforts in the Kikori area comprised of document review and the fielding of a
land expert to identify the causes of the chaotic proliferation of ILGs and to make recommendations for
improvements. The project as conceived was quite techno-centric and these activities were somewhat
pioneering. They did provide useful assistance at the time particularly in the case of the Gobe project. It is
felt that a great deal needs to be done in this area in the future.
Policy Initiatives
Substantial development of regulatory and ownership policies emanated during the course of the project.
This was supported by the availability of legal and economics experts, who during the course of training,
provided responsible advice on policy issues and matters. Notable accomplishments included, but were not
limited to, the development of policies for the privatisation of State petroleum assets, landowner benefits,
gas development, pipelines and facilities, and frontier exploration areas. These initiatives were variously
consummated in amendments to the Petroleum Act, the passage of Mineral Resource Development
Company (Privatisation) Act, and finally encapsulated in the Oil and Gas Act of 1998.
Additional policy work examined various taxation issues, cost reporting mechanisms and the preparation of
updated regulation. This had the effect of producing a higher degree of engagement of the Petroleurn
Division in sector development planning than hitherto possible and has enhanced its capacity to respond to
sector policy matters. In undertaking policy work, the Policy Branch was considerably strengthened. In the
early part of the project, three officers were seconded from the Intemal Revenue Commission for training in
petroleum matters; these three officers subsequently took up positions during in later restructures that
provided more staff positions for the Petroleum Division. This fostered much closer co-ordination of the
Petroleum Division's work with the Government's fiscal authorities.
Conclusion
Although current exploration levels are recognised to be low, the petroleum industry maintains an interest
in PNG. This was exemplified by its participation and attendance at the 4th PNG Petroleum Convention
held in Port Moresby in May 2000 and is measured by the current level of licensing and the extent of
licensed acreage. License details and a map are attached to this report.
Despite the efforts of the Government to enshrine its progressive new policies with respect to benefit
distribution, gas and pipelines in the Oil and Gas Act, perceptions of high risk remain on account of local
and regional political developments. This translates into the industry seeking higher NPVs and rates of
return.
The project enhanced the Government's capacity at a vital time, during the first decade of commercial oil
production. The industry's contribution to the GDP and export eamings has been large and on a per capita
basis, it far exceeds that of major regional producers, for example it is three times that of Indonesia. It is,
therefore, no surprise that there has been significant political and community arousal to an industry that has
emerged as providing such a significant input in the economy. This has created a plethora of sector issues
that the Government has had to deal with at an early stage in the development of its sector management
- 24 -



capacity.
Following the establishment of the Petroleum Division upon the Bank's sector recommendations, the
project provided the necessary capability enhancement to the Division. This helped to anneal the sector
understanding of the National professional officers as the Division sought to keep pace with sector
development. Without the support of the project, the Division may easily have been swamped.
In 1985 prior to the first commercial oil discovery, the Government's organisation responsible for
petroleum matters was comprised of just a small group of geologists and a petroleum licence registrar.
This was the Petroleum Resources Assessnient Group in Geological Survey Division of the Department of
Minerals and Energy. At the end of the project, the Government had a full department of the Government
responsible for such matters with the Petroleum Division at its core. The relatively small administrative
task of licensing and the monitoring of just occasional exploration activities have given way to major sector
developments and production. This has had an associated and consequent impact on the economy and
affected communities which has required exhaustive work by the Petroleum Division. The Division has had
to embrace many more policy, socio-econonic and legal aspects that have become increasingly important
for sector development. The project had the prime objective to assist in the development of an improved
framework of regulatory and ownership policies; it has done such at a time when sector activities have
made enormous leaps. The project was most essentially not only timely in its support of the Government's
efforts to mange the sector, but was a vital contributor to the success of the first decade of petroleurn
production in Papua New Guinea.
**E,nd of Borrower Report**
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 25 -



Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
St      k3t                       Proj'd    n   t ?S R ,Ac*zia) Latest                  ''''''.
Strengthening of Borrower's   Gas Policy                    - Formulated and presented to
framework of fiscal and                                        Parliament, Nov 1995
regulatory policies.                                        additionally
- amendments made to Petroleum
& Income Tax Act, Dec 1996
- integrated Oil & Gas Act
formulated and passed by
Parliament, Nov 1998
Retention license regime for gas   - Drafted and legislated, Dec 1996
discoveries                   and
- applied in the grant of four
Retention Licenses, 1998-2000
Fiscal regime appropriate to:
(i) gas development           - Formulated and drafted
and
- Passed by Parliament, Mar 1998
(ii) petroleum exploration and  - Formulated and drafted
development in frontier areas  and
- Passed by Parliament, Mar 1998
and
- Reviewed in Tax Review, Jun
(ii) marginal fields development   - Reviewed
and
- Incentives provided in Tax
Review, Jun 2000
General Gas Agreement         - Concept and content
developed in 1998
and
-  terms sheets developed in 2000
leading to draft agreement.
Upgrading of Borrower's       Consolidation of petroleum     -  Achieved in 1993 before loan
capabilities: comprehensive   functions into a single Division of  negotiation
management of petroleum       the Department of Mining and   and
exploration and development   Petroleum                      -  lead to creation of
Department of Petroleum and
Energy in 1997.
- 26 -



Output Indicators:
. liliPt  ind h the last PSR   ActuAV,atest tate
Upgrading of Borrower's       Technical collaboration with a  -  Collaboration in place within
capabilities: gathering, process    reputable international    first year of project
and analysis of petroleum     organization                      implementation and
exploration and development data                                maintained up to substantial
completion of the project,
1996 thru 1998
Upgrading of National Staff skills  - A quarter of the National
professional staff are able to
perform their duties
but
-  but less than projected (a
third) due to a 40% attrition
of professional staff trained
during the course of the
project.
Upgrading Data Bank           -  Geophysical data transferred
from overseas locations to
PNG, Dec 1997
-  seismic hazard study
completed, Jun 1998
and
-  geophysical data transcripted
to Exabyte tapes, Jan 1997
-  core store facility refitted,
remaining cores and well
cuttings transferred to PNG
Dec 1998
-  various exploration and
production costs and other
databases created, 1997 thru
1998.
Development of basic capacity    -  Achieved and put to use to
for data compilation and          screen development
economic modeling                 proposals.
Capacity to conduct basin studies  -  Capacity acquired and in-
of frontier area                  house studies on various
areas for promotion of
investment completed 1997
thru 1999.
Enhancement of safety in storage,  Compilation of standards for safe  -  Compiled and endorsed to
handling and transport of     storage, handling and transport of  implementing authority, Dec
petroleum products            petroleum products and action      1998
plan
Evaluation of potential for   Study report on LNG export     -   Study completed, Dec 1997
commercial development of                                    and
natural gas reserves for LNG                                 -  included review of other
export                                                           development options, Feb
1998.
Note: Well defined objectives and components were provided in the project design and the Memorandum
of the President. Subsequently in 1997, in accordance with the revised Bank procedures, key performance
indicators were retro-fitted in consultation with the Borrower.
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Co onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Institutional Strengthening                            4.20            7.61            181
Studies and Promotions                                 1.00            0.84            84
Equipment and Facilites                                4.90            3.50            71
Training                                               0.50            0.65            130
Total Baseline Cost                                   10.60           12.60
Physical Contingencies                                0.85
Price Contingencies                                   0.70
Total Project Costs              12.15           12.60
Total Financing Required               12.15           12.60
Proect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A praisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.50         0.50
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)    _(0.00)
2. Goods                      4.65          0.00          0.47          0.00         5.12
(4.00)        (0.00)       (0.47)        (0.00        (4.47)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          6.53          0.00         6.53
(0.00)        (0.00)       (6.53)        (0.00)       (6.53)
Total                      4.65           0.00         7.00          O.S0         12.15
(4.00)        (0.00)       (7.00)        (0.00)       (11.00)
Prolect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          1.90          1.60         3.50
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.90)        (0.00)       (1.90)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          9.10          0.00         9.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (9.10)        (0.00)       (9.10)
Total                      0.00           0.00         11.00         1.60         12.60
(0.00)        (0.00)       (11.00)       (0.00)       (11.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
- 28 -



vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component(in US million euivalent)
tPercentage of Appraisal
Copnn                 A4pprasal Etisate           Actualiatest Estimate              -      -
Natk      Gout      C:oF.     Batik     Gpvi*     Ca.    Bank  _vv    CoF.
Institutional            4.43      0.00      0.00      7 61      0.00      0.00    171.8   0.0    0.0
Strengthening
Studies and Promotions   1.60      0.00      0.00      0.84      0.00      0.00    52.5   0.0    0.0
Equipment and facilities  4.47     1.15      0.00      1.90      1.60      0.00    42.5  139.1   0.0
Training                 0.50      0.00      0.00      0.65      0.00      0.00    130.0   0.0    0.0
Total                   11.00      1.15      0.00      11.00     1.60      0.00    100.0           0.0
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project provided technical assistance and as such does not lend itself easily to quantitative investment
analysis. The benefits to the borrower are not directly linked to the project investment and are swamped by
exogenous factors such as oilprice.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                                           ,___                  _
~Stage of Project CyAe   .        No. of Persons and Specialty           -- Performncean
e    Ecnmist  I FMS,        _       plmntatibn      Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty  ;rore.s                                bjtive'A._
Identification/Preparation
11/91                       2   A, B
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appr: 11/91                  2   A, B
Post Appr: 12/92             1   A,
Nego: 10/93                  2   A, C, D
Board: 12/93                 1   A
Pre-Sign: 5/94               2   A, C
Sign: 7/94                   1   A
Effect: 9/94
Supervision
2/95                         1  A                                   HS               HS
12/95                        1  A                                  HS                HS
12/96                        2  A, E                               HS                HS
8/97                         2  A, E                                HS               HS
3/98                         2  A, E                                HS               HS
12/98                        2  A, E                               HS                HS
6/99                         2  A, E                                HS               HS
11/99                        2  A, E                               HS                HS
7/00                         2  A, E                                HS               HS
ICR
1/01                        2   A, E                               HS                HS
Specialty:    A: Hydrocarbon Specialist
B: Reservoir Engineer
C: Country Economist
D: Lawyer
E: Petroleum Econornist
(b) Staff.
Itage of P i>oje - CycleActual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             USS OO
Identification/Preparation              8.3                      31.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                  20.3                      71.75
Supervision                            45.7                     343.50
ICR                                    13.0                      49.77
Total                                  87.3                     496.02
-31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
[Z Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Financial                                O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Institutional Development                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
D Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Private sector development               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Poverty Reduction: While the project itself didnot directly reduce poverty, it triggered substantial
contributions (Annex 11) to the National GDP and Foreign Exchange eamings without which poverty may
have been exacerbated.
Private Sector Development: Through the strengthening of Borrower's framework of fiscal and regulatory
policies, the project helped provide an enviroment conducive to investment by the intemational oil industry
in PNG's oil and gas resource development. Additionally, the project assisted the privatization of the State's
Mineral Resource Development Company (MRDC).
-32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU QHU
E Supervision                                        OHS OS  Ou  OHU
F Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                        OHS OS   O u   O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
On Project File:
I. Annexes to ICR
It has not been possible to include the following annexes in the PDS. These annexes are on Project File
and are included in the printed ICR.
Annex 13: List of Tasks Undertaken by the Project
Annex 14: Studies Undertaken during the Project
Annex 15: Promotions and Presentations
Annex 16: PNG Oil and Gas License Map
Annex 17: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 18: Project Implemetation Schematic Chart
IL. Other Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Legal Documents
Supervision Reports
Progress Reports
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8. Policy Framework Initiatives Undertaken and Supported by the
Project
Title                              (Status)
1.    Revision of Standard Petroleum Agreement               (Accomplished)
*     Revision to accommodate the Mineral Resources Company Pty Ltd (Privatisation) Act 1996.
*     Revision in respect of natural gas policy provisions of the Petroleum (Amendment) Act 1996.
*     Amendments of eight current petroleum agreements with licensees.
*     Issue of New Standard Petroleumr Agreement versions 6.01 & 6.02.
*     Revision of Standard Guarantee format.
*     Inclusion of revised Domestic Marketing Obligations.
*     Inclusion of Land Owner Equity provisions.
2.     Privatisation of the Mineral Resource Development      (Accomplished)
Company
-     Assistance with the preparation of the Mineral Resources Co. Pty Ltd (Privatisation) Act 1996.
-     Representation of DMP in the due diligence processes for the MRDC float
*     Participation in final drafting of Option Agreement
*      )Drafting and negotiation of ameendments to Memoranda of Agreement with Kutubu landowners
and provincial
governments to be consistent with float proposals
*     Participation in EIB refinancing to release State Kutubu project assets from security
3.    Development and Introduction of Gas Policy             (Accomplished)
*     Holding of workshops and seminars in preparation for a Green Paper on Natural Gas Policy
*     Drafting and passage of the Natural Gas Policy 1995
Amendments to the Petroleum Act for the introduction of retention licences
Amendments to the Income Tax Act for the new fiscal regime to apply to gas developments
*     Assistance with drafting of the report of the Gas Utilisation Strategy Task Force
4.    Development of Pipeline Policy                   (Accomplished)
*     Preparation of draft White Paper and associated meetings
*     Drafting and passage of the Pipeline Policy 1998
*     Preparation of amendments to legislation for inclusion of pipeline policy provisions
5.    Preparation of Policies on Frontier Areas               (Accomplished)
*     Develop proposals for frontier terms for acceptance by Govemment
*     Draft amendments to Petroleum Act for frontier terms
6.    Analysis and redefinition of Landowner Benefit Policy (Accomplished)
- 35 -



*     Preparation of detailed proposals for new a Kutubu landowner equity regime
*     Negotiations with existing licensees for amendments to their joint venture documents to facilitate
the participation by landowner entities as equity participants in their joint ventures
*     Preparation of detailed proposals for new landowner structures
*     Establishment of new landowner structures including preparation of a model trust deed
*     Preparation of detailed proposals for new landowner equity regime for future projects including
Gobe
*     Negotiation and drafting of amendments to Gobe Petroleum Agreements to effect policy
*     Introduction of a 20% cap on benefits payable to landowners, provincial & local governments
7.    PNG Petroleum Refinery Proposals                       (Accomplished)
*     Participation in development of State policy re: refinery proposals
*     Participation in State negotiation team to negotiate a project agreement with refinery developer
(Napa Napa refinery)
8.    Fiscal Task Force Input                                (Accomplished)
*     Assessment of impact of VAT, fly-in/fly-out tax and tumover levies on the petroleum industry
*     Participation in Governnent Department Task Force to mitigate the impact of these policy
initiatives that distorted the prevailing fiscal regime (VAT retained, others not applicable
to petroleum industry)
9.    Legislation Revision (new Oil and Gas Act)             (Accomplished)
*     Preparation of drafting instructions for amendments to Petroleum Act
Drafting of Petroleum Act amendment
-     Consultation with industry
-     Integration of proposed Petroleum Act amendments with Private Members' bill on gas
=     Drafting of integrated Oil and Gas Act
-     Passage through Parliament
Implementation of the provisions of Oil and Gas Act
10.   Establishment of Cost Reporting System                 (Accomplished)
*     Analysis of current cost reporting requirements of Government departnents and Agencies
*     Preparation of draft integrated reporting fornats
*     Discussion with licensees on introduction of cost reporting systems
*     Preparation and implementation of integrated cost reporting system
11.   Development and Legislation of Downstream Development  (Study Preparations)
Policy
*     Some downstream policies were included in the new Oil and Gas Act
*     Studies to support downstream usage planned are:
*     LPG Policy & Utilisation
- 36 -



*     Gas Based Industrial Development
*      Gas Based Power Generation
*     LPG & CNG in Transportation
*      Off-take of Gas for Local Industrial Use
*      Opportunities for Gas Reticulation
*      Petroleum Resource Evaluation
*      Standards for LPG & Natural Gas Quality, Handling,
*     Transport, Storage & User Equipment
*      Review of LNG Market
12.   Gas Agreement Negotiation                                (In Progress)
*      Preparation of concept paper for content of gas agreement
*      Definition of issues for negotiation in a gas issues matrix
*      Review of draft agreements proposed by industry
- 37 -



Additional Annex 9. Investments in Exploration and Development (US$ million)
Year     Exploration     Development       Operating       Total       US$/K rate
Expenditure     Expenditure        Costs      Expenditure   (end ofyear)
1985        31.9              0                            31.9          0.9877
1986        46.8              0                            46.8          1.0404
1987         84.2            2.1                            86.3         1.1384
1988        140.4            8.4                           148.8         1.2100
1989        173.3            17.4                          190.7         1.1633
1990        236.5            43.9                          280.4         1.0511
1991        178.5           557.2                          735.7         1.0498
1992         81.0           437.3            22.4          540.7         1.0127
1993         61.1            90.3            66.6           218          1.0190
1994         59.4            50.4            57.9          167.7         0.8485
1995         88.3            54.2            50.8          193.3         0.7545
1996        143.1           113.4            57.4          313.9         0.7533
1997        147.3           256.9            82.5          486.7         0.5710
1998         57.2           170.4            62.7          290.3         0.4770
1999         53.4            74.0            73.9          201.3         0.3710
2000         13.2            83.0            80.Oe         176.2         0.3300
2001        40.0e            77.7e           80.Oe         197.7         0.3500e
TOTALS       1635.6          2036.6           634.2         4306.4
Note:  'e' means estimate
Data source: Petroleum Division
-38 -



Additional Annex 10. Oil Production, Price, Tax, and Royalty (US $ million)
Financial     Oil Production      Oil Price      Total Value       Tax         Royalty
Year       (million barrels)   (US$/barrel)    Production     US$ million      (iUS$
million)
1991            0.158                              0              0             0
1992           19.314            21.034          406.25          41             4.0
1993           45.884            18.082          829.67          152            9.0
1994           44.008            16.199          712.89          180            8.4
1995           36.344             17.729         644.34          128            7.5
1996           39.018            21.183          826.52          225            4.5
1997           28.183            20.715          583.81          228            5.1
1998           29.480             13.394         394.86           93            8.3
1999           32.020            18.566          594.48           79            3.1
2000           25.082            28.983          726.95          124            9.6
Totals          299.41                           5719.77          1250          59.5
Note: 1991 production start up wasforproject constructionfuel requirements only
Data source: Petroleum Division
- 39 -



Additional Annex 11. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Export Earnings (Kina million)
Year    GDP         Petroleum       Petroleum %       Total       Petroleum      Petroleum %
Total     Contribution     Contribution    Exports    Contribution      Contribution
to GDP           to GDP                     to Exports      to Exports
2000     9855         1802            18.28%         5517.9e       1743.2e          31.6%
1999     9103         1382            15.18%          4909          1397            28.5%
1998     8901          705             7.92%          3678           813            22.0%
1997     6859         728.5           10.62%          3059           852           27.85%
1996     6914          636             9.20%          3314          1073           32.38%
1995     6309          620             9.83%          3399           827           24.33%
1994     5441          629            11.56%          2662           702           26.37%
1993     4922          746            15.16%          2527           817           32.33%
Notes:
1. For exports, the 2000 figures are estimates based on the January to September data only
[Jan-Sep Total exports = 4138.4 and Petroleum Exports = 1307.4:source BPNG QEB].
2. For GDP, the 2000 figures are for the full year (source: BPNG & Dept Finance & Treasury)
-40 -



Additional Annex 12. Organization of the Dept. of Petroleum and Energy showing
Petroleum Division
Department of Petroleum and Energy
Petroleum Division
Secretary
Dept. of Petroleum & Energy
_ Ga1
Deputy Secretary l
Dept.of Petroleum and Energy _
BEmaqd PaWlh
Director                                          Director
Corporate Services   -      0   i                  Energy Division
Chwmna Kt,rna.a                                     VW. VW.e
Establishment of the Petroleum Division
Offices and              New Establishment                    Old Establishment
Branches          Professional  Support   Total  Professional  Support  'Iotal   Change
Director's Office       1            3          4            1            2          3         1
Exploration             13            5         18           9             1        10         8
Engineering             13            1         14           5            1          6         8
Coordination            14            1         15          11             1        12         3
Policy                  14            2         16           8             1         9         7
Registrar               2             2         4            2             1         3         1
Totals                  57           14         71          36            7         43        28
Note: New establishment approved September 6th 2000
- 41 -



Annex 13: List of Tasks Undertaken by the Project
1: Upgrading & transfer of geophysical  Guardian Data July 5,1995        12    months; 1 st , 1997     AUD859,6  00         Data transription continuing,     Pono, Advent & Behori       summary, status report, 394
databank                                                                                               AU$120,000,00 cost  transcription system installed & being                         exabyte types and transcription
over run            used.                                                         system
2: Earthquake hazard evaluation        D5r H Letz; July 1, 1995          3 years, June 30,1998          USD490,000.00       On schedule Report completed      Anton, Moihoi & the late Luke  status reports, monthly, 6-monthly
Bibot                      & annual reports
3: Upgrading of DMP core shed          BGS(BH,PWb):contract awarded April, 2 man months spread over 1 year USD300,000,00    Shelving, racks and inspection lab &    Kloah, Navu, Tomson &
1996                                                                                equipment installed. Training on use of geologists
equipment concluded.
4 North New Guinea Basin (NNGB)        BGS(PWb); April 1 1996            12 months; Mar, 997            PGK31 ,600D00       Data packages sent out to lOCs July,  Haumu, Kttoah & Advent   Prospecbtvity report
Prospectivity                                                                                                               1997, Completed
5 Preparatory work; promotion of NNGB  BGS(PVvb); April 1,1996           till the completion of bid round in  PGK129,600.00  Promotions conducted at intemational  Pono, Kloah, Rimua, Advent,  date packages and LOis
Julv, 1997                                        conferences LOIs and data packages  Sebong & Haumu
sent to 145 companies.
6: Fiscal regime for gas development   BGS(TM);July, 1996                4 months                       none                Regime developed, legislation drafted  Sebong & Hua           report titled "Revisions to Income
presented to Parliament in Nov, 1996.                         Tax, 1996"
Enacted
7: Fiscal regime for exploration &     BGS(TM);June, 1996                6 months                       none                Completed                         Sebong & Hua                New regime endorsed and
development in frontier areas (see Task No                                                                                                                                                approved by NEC
8: Fiscal regime for marginal fields   BGS(TM);June, 1996                18 months, Dec, 1997          none                 Reviewed                          Rimua                       draft legislation
S Cost databank                        BGS(PWb, TM); July,1996           6 months,                      none                Kutubu, Hides & Gobe data analyzed,  Geologists, Engineers & Policy report
analysis specific to exploration in  staff
progress. Database built (WM).
10: Promotion of PNG resources at APPEA-  BGS(PWb), 16-19 June           6 weeks preparation           PGK10,488.00         Completed                         Pono,Kloah                  report & complimentary letters
1996 conference & exhibition, Darwin
11: Assess  geological aspects of Gobe  BGS(BH) & Manggal; April, 1996  4 man months: End of July, 1996  USD1500 00        Completed                         All geologists              reviews, comments & answers
APDL
N)     12 Assess engineering aspects of Gobe   BGS(PWn),Mandibi & Morokai; April,   5 man months, End of July, 1996  none           Completed                         All engineers               reviews, comments & answers
APOL                                   1996
13: Assess the economics of Gobe APDL    BGS(TM); June 1996              6 weeks; July, 1996           none                 Completed                         Tiensten,Sebong & Rimua     review report
14: LNG study                          BGS(IT,TM),Mandibi; May28, 1996   19 months, Dec, 1997           PGK650,000.00       Contract awarded to Worley Ltd    Phalanger, Mandibi, Bomai &   reports submitted.
contract            16/6/97 Completed 21/2/98.        Morokai
15: Refinery proposal review           BGS(IT); Jan 23,1996              2 man months:                  none                Proposed refinery studies canceled by  (none)                 summary, status report & paper
_____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ __   __ ____ _____ _____ ____ _____   ____ ____ _____ ____ _____   ____ ___agreem entag eeme t twit BBan
16: Install IT system in PD            BGS, Dec, 1995                    1 year, Dec, 1990              USID50,000,00       Network installed ard   useF s    S      iarai,               sum vinary report & installation ot
nos 64 & 65                                                   system network
17: Pilot study, heavy mineral stratigraphic  BGS(BH,ACM): Nov, 1995     80 man days; Jan, 1997         UKP2,500.00         Completed                         Manggal & Woyengu            report & paper
analysis, Papuan Basin
18: Impact assessment; Mubi bridge study    BGS;(CJ) Feb 1,1996          31 man days,a.s.a p            UKP15,091.00        Completed                         (none)                      report & press release
19: Impact assessment; Kikori river export   BGS: (CJ) Feb 1,1996        31 man days,a.s.a.p            UKP15,909.00        Completed                         (none)                      report, & press release
pipe
20: Strengthening of the Petroleum     BGS(PWn, IT, WMc); May 23,1996    2 years: June, 1998            USD4,000 00         Review of regulations completed   all engineers & geologists  6 competent inspectors
Inspectorate: Good oiltfield practice
21 Reservoir management                BGS(PWn); May 23,1996             1 year; June, 1997             none                Complted                          All engineers               report & system being used
22 Moran field development review      BGS(PWn);                         3 months,                      none                Reviews based on Moran 1xST1 & ST2: Robert,Lapira,David       report
_________________________________                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~completed   Dec, 1996.
23: Geophysical well logs interpretation  BGS(IEP): Dec 1995             2 weeks, 13-26 Mar, 1996       UKP13,421.00        Completed                         Geologists and engineers    course outline & assessment forms
course
24: Teaching assistance to mining      BGS(PWb,PWn,IT,TM), July 1, 1996   6 days; 5-9 Aug, 1996         PGK4316 00          Completed                          university students        lectures
engineering, Unitech, Lae.
25: Promotion publication, Repeat Formation  BGS(PWb), Jan, 1996         5 months;June 7,1996           PGK100.00 courier    Completed                        Woyengu,Boas,David          conference paper
Tester pressure analysis                                                 I_I_                                                                                                                                     _
26: Promotion publication; Gas ratio   BGS(PWb), Jan, 1996                5 months:June 7,1996          PGK460 50 fig S     Completed                          Kloah                      conference paper
interpretation                                                                                          courier
27 Assistance with MRDC privatization  BGS(MB): April 4, 1996            2 man months, July 31, 1996    none                Completed                         Tiensten                    various reports plus task
I                                                                                                                                           opeinrpr



28 Drafting amendments to Petroleum Act for BGS(MB); Jan, 1996          1 month; Aug, 1996            none               Amendments passed by Parliament in  Joshua Hua               new legislation i.e. introduction of
Gas Policy Implementation                                                                                                September, 1996 Completed                                    retention licences.
29: Petroleum Economics, Inception report   BGS(TM), Mar 30,1996        1 day; April 5,1996                               Report submitted; completed                                 supporting documents
30' Develop economic model; Wood      BGS(TM), July, 1996               6 months; Dec, 1996                               Developed, used for Gobe field   Policy staff               model
MacKenzie                                                                                                                development appraisal; completed
31 Economic analysis of LNG proposal  BGS(TM), July, 1996               12 months; July, 1997                             Paper produced for Govemment task   Kepsey                  report
force.
32 Economic analysis of oil refinery proposal BGS(TM); July, 1996       12 months, July, 1997                             Completed                        Rimua & Hua                report
33 Gas utilization & pricing model    BGS(TM); Oct, 1996                12 months                                        Completed                         Tiensten,Kepsey            report & model
34: Oil/gas prices database           BGS(TM); Juty, 1996               on going                                         Completed; monthly oil price reports are Rimua               monthly reports
____________________________________  _______________________________                      regularlyeglarlycirrclated.
35 Assessment of landowner benernts    BGS(TM), July, 1996              6 months; Dec, 1996           PGK2.0 000o00      rCompleted.                       Albert & Kepsey            report
36. Review of State particpation in oiVgas   BGS(TM); June, 1996        12 months; June, 1997         negligible          Complted                         Tibnsten & Kepsey          report
industry
37: On sie training - pipelines & facihties    BGS(IT); June 12, 1996   1 week; June, 1996            PGK5,220 00         Completed                        Cletus, Boas, Robert, Lapira &  report
38: IDT-1 1 Rg fire investigation     BGS(vWMc, IT); July 5, 1996       3 weeks; July 31, 1996        none                Completed                        Mandibi, Bob & Cletus       reports & recommendations
39: Technical review of refinery proposal  BGS (IT); June, 1996         3 months; Sept, 1996          PGK200.00           Completed.                       Joseph & Cletus             report
40: Drilling program reference guide   BGS(VWMc); Aug 16,1996           3 days                        none                Completed                        All engineers               Reference guide in use by
41: Review BP proposal Hides 1 & 2    BGS(MvMc); July 29, 1996          2 days; ASAP                  none                Completed                        Mandibi                    report
Pressure Survey_
42: _,renor ,dabase on on l,gas reserves    BGSrPilAM; A,u,, 30J 190R   4  eh.- .-_d 4.               non                 C,.,..,i C. ....,.                                           . A,&k. .AA.....
43: Drihing Engineering Course        BGS(JF); Sept, 1996               30 Sep-40ct, 1996                                 Complted                         All Engineers              report
44 Reservoir Engineerng Course        BGS(AB): Nov, 1996                4-8 Nov, 1996                                     Completed                        All Engineers/Geologists    report to be prepared
45: Annual inspection - Kutubu & Hides  BGS(IT);Sept 1, 1996            10 weeks;mid Nov, 1996       travel costs only    Report completed                 all Engineers              report
Production facilities
46: Review of PNG gas utilization studies  BGS(IT); Sept 1, 1996        On going                                          Reviewed                          all Engineers             report
47 UPNG 4th year Geophysics class     BGS(PWb), Nov 1,1996              2 hatf days, 14-15 Nov, 1996                      Completed                        Pono & Advent               course well received by studentss&
staff of UPNG
48 Geochemical analysis of oil seeps & mud  BGS(BH), Manggal; Aug 22,1996  end of January, 1997       PGK1200 00 erfares & Completed                       Manggal, Woyengu & Morokai report
rocks                                                                                                 USD3224 00 analysis
49 Promotion of PNG od/gas potential at IPA  BGS(PWb), July, 1996       October, 1996                 USD8740.00          Completed                        Haumu & Sebong              lOC's contacted & data packages
25th Convention, Jakarta, October, 1996                                                                                                                                                given out
50. Promotion of PNG oil/gas potential at SPE BGS(PWb), July, 1996      October, 1996                 USD5400.00          Completed                        Advent & Rimua              IOC's contacted & data packages
APOGC conference, Adelaide, October, 1996                                                                                                                                              given out
51: Landowner equity regime implementation BGS(MB), Jan, 1996           3 months, December, 1997      none                Completed                        Mengere                     Proposals & Trust deeds
52: Legal review of Gobe APDL & Agreement BGS(MB). June, 1996           1 month, August, 1996                             Completed                        Hua                         review paper, draft Amendments
53: Terms for Frontier Areas (see task No 7)  BGS(TM); Oct, 1996        6 months, March, 1997                             Completed                         Kepsey, Sebong & Rimua     New legislation
54. Review of Standard Petroleum      BGS(MB), Nov, 1996                3 months: December, 1997      none                Completed                        Tiensten & Kepsey           Review paper on changes &
Agreement, Petroleum Act & Regulations.                                                                                                                                                revised draft.
55: Assistance to IRC in redrafting provisions BGS(MB); Sept, 1996      2 months, Noevmber, 1996                          Completed                        Rimua & Hua                 Amendment draft
for Petroleum projects
5B L    o....o,osstant ,or Moran F-jec  BGS(MB), Dec, 19996             3 rvunths, April, 1997                            Compleied                        R, ua & ManYqul             draft poiicy papers, drat reguiation
commencement                                                                                                                                                                           for taxation
57: Compilation of standards for the safe  BGS(IT,MB), June, 1996       18 months, end 1997           PGK3,000 00         Completed & standards recommended  David & other trainee     TOR & Pacific Island Petroleum
storage & transportation of petroleum                                                                                                                      engineers                   Storage & Handling Standard Pi t
products.                                                                                                                                                                              1994 attached
s5: Transcription service for Gobe LTC  Austcript Technical Service, QLD, mid  4 months, March, 1997  AUD68,000 00        957 recorded tapes transcribed into    Mr Idau of the NJSS assisted in 5887 pages of transcript
hearing                                Nov, 1996                                                                          5887 pages of transcript, completed    preparabon
59: Petroleum Engineering Review      BGS(KS,SM), Jan, 1997             1 week preparation, March, 1997  PGK4,690 00      Completed                        Mandibi & National Engineers  Report
60: Gobe accumulated liability assessment &  MB/AJ Feb, 1997            1 month, April, 1997          none                Agreements signed with companies    Puiye & J Sios (MRDC)    Final report prepared
negotiations.
61: Gobe landowner business development   BGS(FL), June, 1996           6 months                      PGK1 million (Grant  Completed                       Michael, Gabriel & Philip and   Report & Grant.
assistance                                                                                            from MRDC) for                                       landowner groups from Gobe
landowner business                                   ae
_development                                          area
162: Training & development of national staff  Capital Markets Course at International 3 weeks, April 25, 1997  USD11,260 00 S  Mr Hamou attended April/May session  Mr Aloysius Hamou, DoF  certificate of participation, Report
(DoF)                                 Law lnst.ute, Washington D C       _         _I PGK112,400 00                       Completed



613: Promotion of PNG resources at APPEA-  BGS(PWb): November, 1996     6 weeks preparation, 13-16 April. AUD10,243 00    Completed                        B Pawih & K Puiye          List of Industry delegates
1997 conference & exhibition, Melbourne                                 1997                                                                                                          contacted
64: Install network server & PC clients  BGS(1A); October, 1996         3 weeks. December, 1996       UKP8,926&00         Completed                        F Advent & B Joku          Working server & network; Final
__  _  _   _ _                               _                                                        .                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~report,
3 weeks: February, 1997      UKP10,679.00        Completed                         F Advent                   Fully operational network; Final
65: Connect PC clients to server      BGS(BC); December, 1996                                                                                                                         report.
66: 'Contracts in the oil & gas industry"  BGS(DS); March, 1997         1 week; 6 June, 1997         USD16,76075 ++      Completed                         National staff from DMP & other Course & attendees feedback
course                                                                                                                                                     Gov Departments            form.
67: Teaching assistance to mining     BGS(team); April, 1997            1 week: 11 August, 1997       PGK2,64B20         Completed                         university students        lectures
engineering at Unitech, Lae.
68: "Effective Business Communications &    BGS(PWb) Chevron Course offered to  3 days, 16-18 June, 1997  none as Chevron  Completed                       6 participants from DMP    Course & attendees feedback
Presentations" course.                DMP staff, June 16-18, 1997                                    provided the course                                                              form.
free of charge
69: Promotion of PNG oitligas at the World    DMP(MMdBP); June, 1997    1 week, 10-16 Oct, 1997                          Successful participation.         B Pawih & M Mandibi with    International exposure
Petroleum Congress, Beijing: Oct 12-16,                                                                                                                    McWalter accompanied
1997.                                                                                                                                                      Minister & Secretary who are
members of the PNG National
Committee to the World
Pet.Congress.
70: Training course on "Production Logging"  BGS(PWest); November, 1996  1 week,3-7 Feb, 1997        UKP10,164.00        Completed                         DMP Engineers: Boas, Cletus, course & course assessment forms
Joseph, Robert, Bob, and
Lapira: Chevron: Eme &
Kisombo.
71: Training course on "Land Management"  Pacific Land Tenure & Policy Centre; 12 1 week; 16 April, 1997  PGK1,820.30    Completed                         P. Manda                   course & course report
April, 1997
72: 1997 Annual Inspection of Kutubu and    BGS(IT, Mm); 20 June, 1997  3 months, December, 1997     travel costs out of DMP Completed                     DMP Engineers: Mark, Bob,   Inspection reports & check list for
Hides Production facilities.                                                                         budget                                                Cletus and David           future use
73: Development of ownership policy to  Delta Kikori Pty Ltd (a Kikori  4 months: September, 1997    PGK40,000.00        Completed                         P Manda, J Kuatowa         Reports and database on the
increase investment in petroleum sector  Landowners company); 15 April, 1997                                                                                                          Incorporated Land Groups within
Kikon River Basin Pipeline Licence No. 2.                                                                                                                                             the Kikori River Basin
74: DMP Leadership of PNG Gas Policy Task BGS(MB,TM,IT); January, 1997  12 months; January, 1998      none               Completed                         Mandibi, Phalanger and Bomai Draft Gas Policy recommendations
Force.                                                                                                                                                                                to be circulated to members of the
p.                                                                                                                                                                                           gas task force for comments prior
.                                                                                                                                                                                            to seeking NEC endorsement.
75: Review of CNPL Gas to Queensland  BGS(MB,TM,IT); January, 1997      12 months; January, 1998     none                Completed                         Mandibi, Phalanger, Morokai   NEC has endorsed in principle the
proposal.                                                                                                                                                  and Bomai                  recommendations of DPE.
76: Management of LNG and Gas Utilization  BGS(IT); June 1, 1997        a months; January, 1998      USD475,000.00       Completed                         Mandibi and Phalanger      Reports submitted to DPE
Study; Contract awarded to Worley Ltd
77: Petroleum Economics course        BGS(PS); March, 1997              4 days; June 24-27, 1997      USD15,000.00       Completed                         7 DMP staff, 14 from other    Report
Government Departments
78: Assist in the DMP administration of the   BGS(WMc); 3rd Q, 1996     as required                  no additional cost to   Completed                     Engineers; Morokai, Taymen,  Trained drilling engineers &
Petroleum Regulations                                                                                DMP                                                   Boas & Mandibi             Compliance for safety of resources
79: Daily monitoring of drilling activity reports BGS(WMC); 3rd 0, 1996  ongoing                     no additional cost to   Completed                     Engineers with part time   Trained drilling engineers Operator
DMP                                                  involvement of geologists  compliance to Regulations
S0: Set up a Drilling Data Base       BGS(WMc); 4th Q, 1996             ASAP; ongoing                no additional cost to   Completed                     engineers; Morokai, Boas &    Drilling Data Base
DMP                                                  David
BGS(WMc); June, 1996             as required                  travel and printing of  Completed                     engineers; Mandibi, Boas,  Rig inspection forms, compliance
inspection forms costs                               Taymen, Morokai & Cletus    with the Regulations, Directives
B1: Inspection of drilling and workover rigs.                                                                                                                                         and the Act
BGS(WMc); April 28, 1997         1 week; August 6, 1997       travel and           Completed                        university students        lectures
82: Lectures to mining engineers, Unitech.                                                           accommodation only
BGS(MB); Nov, 1996               1 month; June, 1997           none                Completed                        Puiye                       Final draft agreement done and
83: Refinery project agreement negotiations                                                                                                                                           executed May, 1997
84: Tax ammendments - frontier area fiscal ter ffGS(MB); Jan, 1997      2 weeks; Sept, 1997          none                Comoleted                         Rim.a                      Draft amrnmendments
85: Gas Policy - Outline gas agreement  BGS(MB); Jan, 1997              4 weeks, Dec, 1997           none                Completed                         Rimua                      Outline Agreement
86: Assistance in dealing with landowners    BGS(MB); Jan, 1996         2 months; June 1998          none                Completed                         All Policy Branch staff    better imformed landowners
67: Gobe Landowner negotateions       BGS(MB); Nov, 1996                2 months; Mayv1997           none                Completed                         Mengere & Baitia           Draft MOA
88: Hides LNG Project gas agreement   BGS(MB); Aug, 1997                1 week; Dec, 1997            none                Completed                         Rimua                      Agreement
negotiations                                                           I                                                                                                             I
OS: Kutubu gas project gas agreement  BGS(MB): Aug, 1997                1 week; Dec, 1997            none                Completed                         Rimua                      Agreement
negotiations



Tak                        A      f. TO ttonIpItiloI   utD                                      ;ii; 6i46                                            T        i        a            afl
90: Drafting various amendments to      BGS(MB); Jan, 1997                 1 month; Dec, 1997             none                Completed                          Hua & Puiye                  Draft amendments
Petroleum Act
91: Preparation & implementation of Gobe    BGS(MB); Dec. 1996             1 month, Dec, 1997             none                Completed                          Mengere                      Proposals & Trust deed
landowner equity regime
92 Training- Course on Reserve Esitmation   BGS(LD) Jan, 1998              3 days, 4 -6 March, 1998       PGK1 3,900 00       Completed                           Petroleum Division Staff    Training on Rexserve Estimation
93: Policy on Landowner Benefits Distribution DPE(MD); Jan, 1998           4 weeks, 4 Feb, 1998           PGK7,887 10         Completed                           Dume & Manau                Paper on various topics & Reports
94: Training of National Engineers      BGS(WMc),                                                          _Completed                                            IDPE National Engineers      Training
95 Administration Support - Administrative    BGS(WMc);                    1 month                                            Completed                           Engineering section         Admin/Job guideline for drilling
guidelines for the drilling section                                                                                                                                                           section
96. Training- source appropriate courses to   BGS(WMc), start of Protect                                  US$13,300.00        Completed                           Engineers                   drilling skills & optimization, well
Engineers                                                                                                                                                                                     planning
97 Review Gravity & Magnetic Data       BGS Team, Nov. 1997                2 weeks, 28 Nov. 1998          PGK7,835            Completed                           Pono                        Audit Report, Action Plan, Training
_____________________Package
98. UPNG - Undergraduate re-orientation from Silo Vali                     5 months, July, 1998           PGK2.476 00         Completed                          Vali                         Successful complstion of first
Medicine to Geology                                                                                                                                                                           semester geologY
99. Training - Applied Reservoir GeologY                                                                  US$6,833 00         Completed                          national staff               Applied  Reservoir Eng. By OGCI
100 Prepare Project Slide Show & handout   BGS(IT); Sept, 1997             1 month, Oct, 1997                                 Completed                          Mandibi, Bomai, Timereke,    Presentation to Members of PNG
for NEC/Parliament on PNG Gas Options                                                                                                                             Tayman, others              Parliament
101: Promotion: Petroleum Potential of Cape  DPE(Pono), Sept, 1997         4 months, Jan, 1998                                Completed                          Pono,                        Regional Geology, identify &
Vogel Basin                                                                                                                                                                                   Catalogue potential reservoirs, etc,
_____________________prospects
102: Promotion: Petroleum Potential of the Fly BGS(PWb) & DPE(S Kloah); Sept 1997 4 months, Jan, 1998                         Completed                           Kloah, Advent, Haumu,       Report with accompanying maps
Platform                                                                                                                                                         Woyengu                      and sections
103: Promotion: Petroleum Potential of the    BGS(PWb) & DPE(Woyengu), Sept    4 months, Jan, 1998                            Completed                          Woyengu, HaumuAdvent,        Report with acoompanying maps
Papuan Fo.ld g Thrust Bee Hintertand   1997     _                                                                                                                 iK-h                       and sections
104 Promotion- Petroleum Potential of Aure  BGS(PWb) & DPE(Advent): Sept 1997  4 months, Jan 1998                             Completed                          Advent, Woyengu,             Report with accompanying maps
Fold Belt Kloah,Haurmu and sections
105. Promotion: APPEA Conference &      BGS(PWb), Sept 1997                8 months, 8 March, 1998        A$8,000             Completed                          Woyengu & I Policy officer   Deliver paper Conference, Booth
Exhibition 1998                                                                                                                                                                               Exhibition
108: investigate oil spillage from Shell Oil    BGS(IT). 15 March 1998     3 days. 20 March 1998                              Completed                           Bomai                       Investigate & report to Secretary
Terminal POM, 13-Mar-98
4-      107 Inspection of Gobe production facilities   BGS(IT): March 1998         1 week, 24 March 1998                               Completed                          Mandibi, Trattner           Inspection Report, Approval &
Followup
108 Promotion. 1998 Indonesian Petroleum   BGS(PWb), Feb 1998              7 months, 23 Oct 1998          US$4,852            Completed                          Tiensten, Woyengu            Present Poster, Technical note,
Assciation Conference on Gas                                                                                                                                                                  promotional documents
109 Educational Trip to London          DPE(R Rimua), 27 Mar 1998          4 weeks, 28 April 1998         PGK31,715 00        Completed                          Rimua                        Report on Educational Trip,
_____________________________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~matrials from courses
110' I T Network - extend network via leased  BGS(Killen): April 1998      3 months, July 1998            Total K9240 and     Completed                                                       Internet and Email Accounts
line to Internet                                                                                          Monthly. K300
111. Inspection of gobe Field Facilities  BGS(IT), April 1998              1 week, mid April 1998                             Completed                           Mandibi, Trattner, Bomai    Inspection, Approval, followups
112. Landowner Coordination - Attend    DPE(Yakopa); May 1998              3 Weeks, May 1998              K4,458 50           Completed                          Yakopa                       Training
courses in land Administration
113 Create/Maintain Production/Reservoir   BGS(Bogatchev): April 1998      300 man/hours 15 October. 1998                     Completed                           Tayman,Bomai, Trattner      Gobe Prodn/Reservoir Database,
Database for Gobe Field                                                                                                                                                                       Template for other fields,
___________________                                                                                           ___________________________Excel/Acces
114 Landowner Coordination - Attend     DPE(Koyama), May 1998              3 Weeks, May 1998              K3,92260             Completed                          Koyama                      Training in Landowner issues
courses
115. Pipeline Policy - Workshop on Pipeline   27-May-98                                                   K700.00             ICompleted                          Teinsten, Bomai, Pawih      interaction & consultation with
Policy Green Paper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ________________industry revised pipeline policy
118' Landowner Policy- Course in Land   DPE(Mengere); May 1998             3 Weeks, May 1998              K5992 00            Completed                           Mengere                     Training in Landowner issues
Administration
117. Landowner Policy- Course in Land   DPE(Mengere), May 1999             4 Weeks, May 1998              K5992.01            Completed                           Mengere                     Training in Landowner issues
Administration
118. Training - International Gas Business    DPE(Mandibi), June 1998      1-12 June 1998                 US$5,600.00         Completed                           Mandibi                     courses presented by IHRDC
Management Certificate Program
119. Technical Training - Project Management BGS(Bogatchev), June 1998     2 Weeks June 1998              K100 00             Completed                           Morokai, Seteri, Taymen, Kota, Project Management seminai &
Trattner, Bomai, Haumu,     Handouts
Woyengu, Koyama
120 Training potential recruits to Engineering BGS(PWb, WMc, Bogatchev, IT,TM) &  6 days, 17 August 1998  K1,940 00           Completed                           Woyengu                     Lectures, Lecture notes
Branch of PD, Unitech                   DPE(Woyengu): June 1998
121' Reporting Environmental Impact     DPE(Kuatowa, Manda, Manau), June   1 week, 15-19 June 1998        KS 427 60           Completed                           Kuatowa, Manda, Manau       learn basics of erivironemental
Assessments as part of landowner        1998                                                                                                                                                  impact assessments etc
coordination work



> -0 XX =19,|-'00 '..=:= :2
122: Drilling Presentation at Unitech   BGS(W!Vc); June 12,1998            1 week, 12 August 1998         K4S0                Completed                                                       4 hours presentation oill/gas
123: rraining- Trainee Drilling Engineers  BGS(WMc); July 1998             2 weeks, 2 August 1998                             Completed                          Seteri, Kota                 Better knowledge in drilling and
124: Training- C-PES -Oford Courses     DPE(Tiensten): July 1998           27 days, 4 August 1998         K39,810,64           Completed                         Tiensten                     Successful completion of course
125:Reviw ofthe ulf OA            DPE(Dume); July 1998               3 days, 26 July 1998          1(10,806 00           Completed                          DumeT Kuatowa, Gabonen.    Signing MOA S Training of natioria
Pawih                       staff in landowner dealings
126: ~Technical --Training - Petroleum      BGS(Bogatchev); July 1998      15 days; 13 August 1998        -K2000+              Completed                          Bomai                       Lectures, handouts
Production systems Unitech Lae
127: Review of Hides Wells - Evaluation af   BGS(VVMc). June 18, 1998      18 June - 24 July 1998                              Completed                         Tayman, Bomai, Trattner, Kota, Determine causes of well
Hides Gas Wells: 1,2,3 S 4)                                                                                                                                      Morokai, Seteri,             problems, gain
128: Technical Training- Gobe sand control,  BGS(Bogatchev); Aug 1998      12 man/days, 27 Aug 1998                           Completed                          Seteri, Trattner             Sand producing wells, completion,
data gethering, analysis and                                                                                                                                                                  production S well testing data
Recommendations
129: Independent Review of Oil Searrh7s  BGS(IT); November 1998            3 weeks, end Nov 1998          AUS$10,000          Completed                          Bomai, Mandibi               Consultants findings, DPE
Altemative Gas to Queensland Project                                                                                                                                                          recommendations to GOPNG
Expenditure Phasing S Gas Reserves
AllocSation
`130:. Reviewy impact on GTQ Project on  BGS(IT); Oct 1998                 6 weeks, 7 December, 1998      AUS$9,000           Completed                          Bomai, Mandibi               Study report of findings, DPE
sending NGL's and Condensate lo POM by                                                                                                                                                        assessment on whether to proceed
pipeltine Instead of being processed offshore                                                                                                                                                 with proposal
131: Msc Course in Energy Management    DPE(Ponoj; October, 199            ameyear, Odtober '19993        UKP22,900            Completed                          Stanley Pono                Msc Degree in Energy Studies
132: Review Gas to QLD Project          BGS(IT); Aug 1998                  1 month, Sept 1998                                  Completed                         Bomai                        Detailed Results of DPE appraisal
Environemenlal Plan                                                                                                                           enytronmental plan, Brierng to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nvrometa pan Biein t
-P                                                                                                                                                                                                   Secretary S minister meetings with
_   _                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~serm,nwr to staff aJn progress.
133: Landowner policy - workshop        DPE; Sept 1998                     8 - 9 Sept 1998               K9,968.67            Completed                          Staff of Coordination and Policy An effective Benefas legislation
branch of Petroleum Division  fthat will solve a lot of issues
134: Drilling Trainirng - Secondment of  BGS(WMc); Aug 1998                2 -3 monfth                                        Contpleted                         Boas Kota                    National DPE Erggineer to got
Engineer to Oil Search                                                                                                                                                                        hands-on expertence
135: Tecshnical Training-Gobe sand control,  BGS(Bogatchev); Aug 1998      12 days, 27-Aug 1998                               Completed                           Seteri, Trattner            Sand produrcing wells, oompkrdion,
data gathering, analysis & recommendations                                                                                                                                                    production & weh testing date
136: Atteneding a short coutrse on Projec  DPE; Nov 1998                   16 - 20 Nov 1998               K5,370.00           Completed                          Kuatows, Tarigua, Manau      Project development
Development Planning & Budgetary Control at                                                                                                                                                   plannrngffnancial corurses-hetpful.
Untech, Lars
137: Petroterr Cost Reporlhg Vvorkshop    DPE; Dee 1903                    Jun-99                         Kt, ,t92.94         Completed                           Rimua, Seborng, Tole        Petrobumn Cost reporting project to
t138: Local Area Network Extension      BGS(Kilten); Oct t1998             3 months Jan t1999             K35,000             Completed                                                      an opertoa comp   uted byJ ne t590  
Telehoe systenm within two now
139: To receive training                DPE(J.Hua); Mar 1999               3 mornths, May 1999            UKP10,000           Cancelled                          Joshua Hua                   rre
140. Training of Staff                  DPE(engineers); Jan 1999                                                              Completeo                          J.Taymen, B. Kota, D.Seten,   A national staff that can become
C.Bomai, B. Morokai, engineers. more proaictive and efficient in the
141: Induction Training                 DPE(A.Goiye); Sept 1998            9 months, May 1999             K450/Fortnight rising to Cadetship completed           Alex GoiYe                   Gnralnmnducth nioncore,igBainc
_                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K550/FN                                                       experience, assisting advisor.
142: Landowner Awareness               _ DPF(Cnr-dirathon); March 10999    2 days, Marclh 1SS99           K16,000 - K17,000    Co duv..                          J Kuatcywa, s Koyama, P      Landowners were more informed
Manda, D.Manau, K. Puiye, F  of their benefit entdtlements, and
Lola, W.Tangua, Albert      the status of the gas project
.                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mengere, Alphonse Hagap,
_                        ~~~~~~~~L.Takopa
1143: Computer Training                iDPE(D.Sebong, R.Rimua);                                                                Completed 



k                                        mo     d       Du7 atIt>Vfcomi.t0onN tto        t _-   _      S           S__s                     T4tipWI          abV"iPnt 
144 Certificate Course in Land, Resources & DPE(Coordmnation), May 1999  1 week, May 1999             K4,874 70           Completed                         Sarufa Maupua David Manau  Course to help them learn about
Environmental Compenstation                                                                                                                                                            legal & national policies
concerning land and resources and
to deal with them effectively
145 Training to aquire knowledge and  DPE(A Laepa)                                                    K14,808            Completed                         Ahovo Laepa                 maintain, coordinate to establish
eperience to at international levels to deal with                                                                                                                                      appropnate degree of risk sharing
petroleum industry matters effectively                                                                                                                                                in the Gas Development Project
146 Promotion 1999 Australian Production  OPEM Mandibi, K Puiye & P Woyengu) 2 Weeks Aprf, 1999       Aus$15,265 69      Completed                         Mark Mandibi Kepsey Pulye.  Display Posters on the Petroleum
and Exploration Association Ltd (APPEA)                                                                                                                     Peter Woyengu              potential of the NNGB, internal
Conference & Exhibition - Perth Australia                                                                                                                                              PFTB and the Papuan Foreland
area during the Conference at the
Exhibition boot Provide promotion
documents
147 Information Technology Development of BGS(G.Wiggans) & NERC(M France),  2 Months, May 1999        UKP48,000 for six    Completed                       lati Ai, all staff in exploration &  Afully functioning Geographic
Geographic Information System         Aug 1998                                                        months work                                           coordination branches, some   Information System capapble of
engineering branch staff   producing any licence map
required as well as allowing the
usual database queries to be
answered
148 Attend Technical Workshops and    DPE(B Morokai, G Mangal, J Taymen), 3 days: Mar 1999            K27DC Travel        Completed                        Bob Morokai, Gerard Mangal,  talking & listening to JVP about
Meetings in to develop Moran Oil Field  Mar 1999                                                      allowance, other                                      Joseph Taymen              their plans & DPE plans
expensees met by
Chevron
149. Management Training              Joint Venture Training UK; Feb 1999   2 weeks, Mar 1999         UKP20,808           Completed                         34 national Staff          Course manual for attendee
150 Personal Skills Training: Technical  BGS, April 1999                4 days: May 1999                                  Completed                        25 National Staff & 18      Course manual & supplemantarny
Reading & Writing Skilis                                                                                                                                   secretatrial staff of DPE   exercises
151 Geolgical training and promotion of    BGS(Dr G.K Lott), Mar 1999   2 months, April 1999                              Completed                         Gerard Manggal. Peter      Develop confidence of national
geological activities of the Petroleum Division                                                                                                             Woyengu, Jimmy Haumu,      staff to promote work of Petroleum
Jennifer Kapi, Gregory Balavue Division to an extemal audience
152 Management Training Senior        Josnt Venture Training UK, June 1999  2 weeks, June 1999        UKP14,500           Completed                         Joseph Gabut, Bernard Paw)h, Course manuals & an independent
.     Management Development Program                                                                                                                               Paul Tiensten, Francis Lola,   assessment of management
Joshua Hua, West Tangua,   techniques
Channan Kumulau, Kiara Mao
Rema, Nathan Mapeso, Vore
Vere, Martin Bonan, Allan Larn
153 Development & Integration of Databases BGS(J Gibson): April 1999    2 months; June 1999                               Completed                         Saskia Ani, Boio Haro      Completed Database systems in
in the Petroleum Division                                                                                                                m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icrosoft access for dIrilling
in the Petroleum Division                                                                                                 .engineering, licence registry,
reports archive & borehole
geology Standard hegration
interface wilth password security,
available to alt staff
154 Policy Training: Natural Gas Contracts   BGS (D. Stickley), Jan 1999  1 week, end April 1999      UKP 5000            Conducted                         Policy Branch Officers     Course delivered and manual
and managment                                                                                                                                                                          available
155:Community relations impact assessment Tony Power, May 1999          5 days; end July 1999         PGK 7500            Done                              Policy & Coordination Branch   Report on Community Relations
of the new 01 and Gas Act                                                                                                                                   officers                   aspects of Oil and Gas act and
I _________________ I                                       ] ~~~~~~~~~~~recommendations on deficiencies
156. Training in Non-Destnuctive testing  Dept. Mechanical Engineering,  3 days, 8th July 1999        PGK 4127            Attended                          Bob Morokai and Cletus Bomai Course attendiance
Methods                               Universtity of Technology, Lae
Explanation of abbreviations used
General:..
BGS = British Geological Survey. the expert
team
OMP = Department of Mining & Petroleum.
MRDC = Mineral Resource Development Co
DOF = Department of Finance
BPNG = Bank of Papua New Guinea
NJSS  National Judicial Staff Sernvices
GOPNG = Govemment of Papua New Guinea



DPE = DePt of Petroleum & Energy
BGS & Oither Experts:
PWb = Peter Webbs Petroleum Geologist 1.
BH = Bemard Humphreys, Petroleum
Geologist 2,
IT = Ian Taylor, Pipeline a Facilities Engineer..
WMc = Walter McCullum, Drilling Engineer
PWn = Paul Winchester. Reservoir Eng.
MB =Martin Bymes, Petroleum Lawyer.
TM  Tony MacKay, Petroleum Economist
ACM = Dr Andrew Morton (BGS short term
expert)
CJ = C. James (BGS short term expert,
sedimentologist).
IEP = Dr Ian Penn (BGS short term expert,
seismic interpreter).
JF = John Ford (BGS short term drilling
G.o    expert)
AB = Alasdair Brown (BGS short term
reservoir engineer)
KS =Prof Ken Sorbie (Heriat-Watt University)
SM =Sandy MacFarlane (BGS Project
Manager)
AJ = Ashok Jain iDMP)
JS = Jennet Sios (MRDC)
FL = Frank Leibfried (BGS consultant)
LA = Ian Ainslie (BGS short term IT expert)
BC = Brian Cannell (BGS short term IT exp)
DS = Dennis Stickley (BGS short term expert,
Lawyer)
MMc = Mick McWalter (Director Pet. Div.)
ILD = ILauie Dake 
MO =Mpesa Dume (Atdirector-Coord. DPE)



Annex 14: Studies Undertaken During The Project Implementation
LNG and Gas Utilisation Study
a major study and assessment of gas dvelopment options
costing around Aust $ 400,000
contracted to Worley Ltd.
provided key input to GoPNG Gas Utilisation Task Force recommendations
Seismic Hazard Study for LNG and Gas Development
a major study to assess the seismic hazard for proposed gas development schemes[
costing around US$ 440,000
contracted to Dr. Horst Letz
determined that schemes traversing the northern PNG area have significant seismic risk
Standards for Safe Handling, Storage and Transportation of Petroleum Products
a minor study of existing standards in use in the region
conducted in-house under the guidance of consultants
recommended to the National Standards Institute for adoption
Assessment of the Petroleum Potential of the Internal Fold and Thrust Belt: Papuan Basin
a minor study to assess the pctential for petroleum accumulations in an untested area
conducted in-house with out-sourced compilation and printing of presentation montage
Assessment and Promotion of the Petroleum Potential of the North New Guinea Basin
a minor study conducted in house with the assistance and guidance of' consultants
promotional packages prepared, printed and sent to international petroleum companies
Assessment of Impact of Kutubu Oil Pipeline on Kikori River Sedimentation by BGS expert
a minor study of effects of the oil pipeline on river sedimentation
Assessment of Impact of Mubi river bridge as a possible cause of flooding by BGS expert
a minor study of the effects of the Kutubu oil project access road Mubi River bridge on
the local environment after a series of floods
Other small studies conducted in house with help and assistance of consultants:
Correlation of Wells in the Papuan Basin: a study of wells throughout the Papuan Basin;
Gas Ratio Studies on Oil and Gas Discovery Wells: a study of hydrocarbons in wells
Provenance Study for Gobe Oil Reservoir Sands: a study and analysis of heavy mineral
distribution designed to reveal the source of reservoir sands in the Gobe Oil field
- 49 -



Annex 15: Promotions and Presentations
JUNE        1996    1996 APPEA Darwin, Australia
Attendee: Stanley Pono and Sabah Kloah
Conference & Exhibition
SEPT        1996    Third PNG Petroleum Convention
Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea
Attendees:     All professional staff
OCT         1996    25' IPA Annual Convention
Jakarta, Indonesia
Attendee:      Jimmy Haumu and Dominic Sebong
OCT         1996    SPE APOGC Conference
Adelaide, Australia
Attendee:     Francis Advent and Rendle Rimua
JAN         1997    Australasian Energy Pacesetters Conference,
Sydney, Australia
Attendee:    M. McWalter
A Paper Presentation
APRIL       1997    APPEA, Melbourne, Australia
Attendee:    Peter Webb, Bernard Pawih, Kepsey Puiye
Conference and Exhibition
SEPT        1997    Petroleum 2001, BGS HQ, Keyworth, UK
Attendee:    Peter Webb
Industry Technology Forum & Display
OCT         1997    World Petroleum Congress, Beijing, P.R.C.
Attendees:    Minister Maibawa, Secretary Gabut
Bernard Pawih, Mark Mandibi, Mick McWalter
Press Conference Exhibition
DEC         1997    PNG Mining and Petroleum Investment Conference
Sydney, Australia.
Attendees:    Minster, Secretary, B. Pawih, M. Mandibi,
M. McWalter
Two Papers and Exhibition.
JAN         1998    Australasian Energy Pacesetters Conference, Perth
Attendee:    Bernard Pawih
Paper Presentation
- 50 -



MAR      1998    APPEA. Canberra, Australia
Attendees:    Peter Webb, Peter Woyengu, Paul Tiensten,
Secretary Gabut
Conference, Exhibition and Poster Session
MAY      1998    LNG 12 Conference
Perth, Australia
Attendee:     Mark Mandibi, Bernard Pawih
OCT      1998    26"t IPA Annual Convention & Gas Habitats of
SE Asia and Australasia Conference
Jakarta, Indonesia
Attendee:    Peter Woyengu
NOV      1998    PNG Mining and Petroleum Investment Conference
Sydney, Australia
Attendee:    Bernard Pawih, Joseph Gabut
FEB      1999    Australasian Energy Pacesetters Conference
Attendee:    Paul Tiensten
APRIL   1999    1999 APPEA, Perth, Australia
Attendees:    Mark Mandibi, Peter Woyengu
Conference, Exhibition and Poster Session
OCT      1999    IPA, Jakarta, Indonesia
Attendee:    Paul Tiensten, Peter Woyengu.
DEC      1999    PNG Mining and Petroleum Investment Conference
Sydney, Australia
Stanley Pono, Paul Tiensten, Rendle Rimua
Attendance and exhibition
MAY      2000    2000 APPEA Conference and Exhibition
Brisbane, Australia
Peter Woyengu, Joseph Taymen
MAY      2000    4th PNG Petroleum Convention, Port Moresby
3 days exhibition, four papers and attendance
All professionals of the Division
- 51 -



04.16: PNG OIl 0-d G,s Ulcono Map
3-S *7                 0235                O43.7                  1447                  4035                 1497                  1477                  147                   I                           PETROLEUM        PROSPECTING LICENCES (PPL)
g=    ..                               .5%  771193                  M  117Si.3 N0 0 %  73L  0l ( OP)    35 25*     071 004.1 Pl )Pmd e   (0#) 25% _S
M,                         ~~~20%%                       5704   _""(_) 
P..57S.              E 7         Pl,       (Op) 3r.25%                     Pl                              11.25%   WWL2              P10       (P74G) Mly L.  25%
\  R4mu (l09(yy  el                                                                                                                 (UPN
..... N                                             PPL.  T. \5    d   04 Ply 1110173(0p)          100%     PPL23                                    222 B 5 S S % Pr. Y  ' 400)  %
..f,P,,                                                                                                            Spe C,                               2 53%
TraO W iePeDNG PPlyL= 421                 725%     p     G  dP) o.5711m*24)S                      W100017 P0Og S   (70)  71S GLU25%
I1                                     I   3m                                              8.25%
rs  -L -t7-                                                                                                           gs                                    P7L179045411          4 Op                      50%       *         5 IPlyU m                                      2797 d*  PRGLSI4                     7_ 255%
o,  U=               0"                                 71134)0T11l370~7l440~701144
811,1.500*                     771215 11l401~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~~P110l8""1
*SS  --                                                                                                                                                                                                       7PL00 r004l040 G-ld 0-1 (07)        P     R     0%                        74(u~~727)00p PlyumL2(o4 025% 1i0 0     11d0l                   IS*   Ply
APP2187W1o1dEn3 RooUoss                 r       100%              APPL2270 Peolo2s7dgm                    :5              C410011or
37011EpOrlo  7)50%                                                          U
(PSG( Pen  APPL21404007N)                               1 .                                     5% 7P12P,       5**9 34511113(
L  PPL:PeLmleLm8PmsMrlirgLkerce 2_ APPL22b 035amhUm23d(0p) IX% ElighPNGUmad mpNG)umed sg*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"* L L                                                              P                        O''    PL20    bo(pG  P,                                                                                    2N
W104040oa57Jnl.4(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1411   ~~~~  177~~0 E4po=orasoo,                    5%              W044P740T 
45.40%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l                                                                                 <  XYEC_/                                               APDLS Oi52=:>Y,Um,ddd<Op)                          Tj35;3;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71030201101  irOd O)        974   P521   1lo14  141 PyL044 07                 5%0
77108la4.70U4e  0)                          453*                04  PO .  WL05'Y                       2' %            050011188
Petroleum  Licence~Ck'~~4 P3L                                   ^Pt                           835*4             oo,-.ero), pt21*25%~ 0%                                                                    25
4.490% 771204    1000807s Ply 1001.4I0%                     117  eoo0mOopo                     .5%
8*s         APRL: ApplisdL - r1.278%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PPr.OoEOaoloa 81144(74 PLicIoracrn 7     p 031) 200120 HgS7 P   d 355*%
Pa7p~~~~~77d 33 67d oGLlio3 Bd. Pdwolcar Dl zisiOd DrpCvl arrNr {PrrGrl d  m d Ela7n7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                            8 W ~       Gd R                         '0%                   ' 
PPI(52)1130.71101155 EpolOl (P140(71y 1  4 (07), 2S                           U- 8) ml                              P     9 mr di                                   I
20%     PL033
5%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PP0 I1 705145314  PLy LJl,o0 (                37 475%                01         OPI,ol U01. Pl  l18   07)0%
00        278%                                                                  I05%
26.'    ~ ~    ~     81,182.Ply 1041.                            15.5%I
1200011    04                   6~~~~~~~~~~09%            04N L04                        2440415
PP012  t58o,o   7409717171.504(07                 73E%P.ol.o  Rooc4 06)  t                                              2
04.47L ine                               27132UOo1l4Ws   p(1170.83%0
CT   074s1 N41o                       1515
00 S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~9875%                                   010711001418142.5%
U0481 7.0)50 OIl Co 51    2.80825%                  877~~~~C- PG    I . PoCo                     88815%
PDU   C.-  NW                      57%~~~~~~M,lleOlO. Cpoao                                            .815
UZ~~~~Ply ~~~~~O (0p780  osolo, Go)3)1                                                   2%
4001 70 11-' (07                               401%    703 *400 P47.               700G~11lPyU11  0'2.78
7700101.4 Gul            8            50 2727%                 M'                                       2%Pl  7413)7
N   Pv                        11,~~~~~730618%      81P 004 a 4l S-f, L-.                             275            01017018200177L 
U5%
P.~~~~~ R-FrWy.)  75%                                                            14   11 %~~~~~~~~~~~T115-110 750841         5
85770800010)780) Ill~~~~~~~~~               T157-01401~P. 750847P40171                 5
0;                                                                                                                                          os            A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPTRLCAION  PRPETRNTONLEUME (PROLETN) ICNE(PL
5774.221    0044 E7117gy 074oI0l01400411C3 (0gr                               -) Ply 100i%,,d71.) 27904%   PR1i S-                   E,0- M025
2771222    4.04770147040078717004110(07) 272L02
7400081.                                                                                                                *771223    571 E47400000747404140507 1)4 (07)   100%               5774.278 8110540,04 Ply Lr4104 (07)                   20%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2%  SI U     P' L"""'(op   20
6. ~        ~        4    0o       N~           1014        20%%
L16088                                                                                                                                      0771224    014501157 Energy 74L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  80%           P11510.2464411080041*344                    12.5%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%    C  P -   NL    15
571-2   1411044104P"   1703040)            0%                  IR E: 21%W4 P00440 71 11404                        125
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w-tw 74 45
7.5% ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                   1hN=)r                    .5
APPLICATIONS FOR PETROLEUM PRETPENTIONG LIECENC (APPL)
OPEL  App)io.04.O0 P1470koo77)0*i0014470o7                                             Jaoorny3l. 2001                                                70000410004114                              8.75%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P22   ~~  R   '- W  OP) IN   H  i1N_        2 ~1
PPp17O  : Eo1-71-00010 Polpl)0o0 Lic-404  )27p0251Ol 0(Pj12)700p 040) Eo,o,ono
Going G(SOPop)afo 4.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADL  -                                                                                      Lk,i OP                   75
App,o4doocod 40)0 8)odp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roia17oo of D7774017o4 7fP0Iro(oo10 3 00o,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~0                                                                                  4



Petroleum Exploration and Development Techncial Assistance Project
Implementation Schedule                                                  >
Calander Year                    1994      1995        1996       1997       1998       1999       20001
Quarter                      F 234112341 12 34112 34  12  34A1  23  4 11  2 3 4w
Experts
*Procurement                   |
*Duration of assignent                                                        LiA~    A    L     
Training                                                U_______
Inhouse-training                               _ _   m **
Recruitment of additional Staff         n 'L  *        U *    *
Overseas training             I I I  I       = = _3
Building                       i-
* Tenders
Construction/Refurbishment    I I I-
Studies/Promotions
Gas export (LNG   pipeline)                               *    -  _ _  _
* Seismic hazard                              _  _ _  _  - _ _ _ _
*Resource Promotion                            ___
Standards for pet. storage, etc                                                                         4 _
Database upgrade
* Procurement of equipment                     _
Installation/Training                              _  _  _ _
*Data Transfer-
Estab. Core/cuttings store& lab  | |_
*uuuuuuuUU   planned                                           actual



Annex 18: Project Implementation
Schematic Chart
Promotion
NNG Bidround. Conference Attendance.
LO. Studies
Kikori Basin ILG Study. Gobe Forum.
PETROLEUM                          Courses
EXPLORATION                          Short courses Overseas & Degree Programs.
AND                         Advisor
DEVELOPMENT                           Retention of McWalter to assist new Director and Project.
TA PROJECT
Seismnic Data Transfer
Relocation PNG Archive From Australia and Transcription of
Tapes.
Equipment
i I     .Core Store Rehabilitation 2. Laboratory 3. IT LAN 4. Software
PROJECT MANAGER:                     5. Library 6. Backup power.
Director,           _       I
Petroleum Division       I        Standards for Handling Petroleum
li                           _          Conducted by BGS with Petroleum Division.
Refinery Study
Dropped but input provided on review of refinery proposals by
WORLD BANK:                       BGS experts.
US$1 1.0 million                 Seismic Hazard Study for Gas Development
Dr. Letz - Study on Seismic Impacts, Particularly Northern
Pipelines & Facilities.
GOPNG:
LNG & GAS Utilization Study
US$1 .15 million                 Worley - Comprehensive study on Gas Development
Technical Collaboration
BGS Experts in: Pet. Geology, Pet. Engineering, Pet. Law.
Resident team & Visiting Experts
Responsible advice, On the job Training
- 54 -



