Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 24405
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1279-PNG)
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3670-PNG)
June 20, 2002
oector ana i nemaric rvatuarion oroup
LOpertian ELvalualiour Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Curr-er.cy I"r.i = ,V.na (K)
%S., 14  L/JIL&&  I'UL~L4U  LXJ
1 AC113   T TC'& I  TYf% flO
1993          US$ 1   UK.98
1994          US$1= K.00
1995          US$1 = Ki.28
1996          US$1 =K1.32
1997          US$1= K1.43
1998          US$1 = K2.06
1999          US$1 = K2.54
2000          US$1 = K2.76
2001          US$1 = K3.37
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BGS           British Geological Survey
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DPE           Department of Petroleum and Energy
GTQ           Gas to Queensland Project
GOPNG         Government of Papua New Guinea
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
TCR           Tmnle.mpntatinn Cnmnletinn Ri-nnrt
ILG           Incorporated Landowners Group
C         ~~~InLem.al Revenu Conm.uaion
IOC           International oil company
LNG           Liquefied natural gas
MOP           Memorandum of the President
MRDC          Mineral Resources Development Company
MRSF          Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR          Project Performance Assessment Report
PD            Petroleum Division
PNG           Papua New Guinea
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TA            Technical assistance
TCF           Trillion cubic feet
Fiscal Year
Government:          January I-December 31
I Director-General, Operations Evaluation             Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department        : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation           : Mr. Alain Barbu
l Task Manager                                     : Mr. Andres Liebenthal



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 20, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Performance Assessment Report on Papua New Guinea Petroleum
Ryxloration Technical Assistance Prriect (Cr. 1279-PNG). and Petroleum
Exploration & Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-PNG)
LA%I- a Lti-,X  K _IIA lA,, nC A ---s+ DA--- -A--A byo the Ope-t;ns Evqwumtion
Department on the above projects. The former credit of SDR 2.7 million was approved in FY83
and closea in F'88. It was cofinanced by the OPEC Fund. The latter project was approved in
FY94 and closed in September 2000. The Bank loan for US$11 million was fully disbursed.
There was no cofinancing for the latter project.
The key objectives of the first project were to: (a) generate an integrated picture of
PNG's petroleum potential and identify new exploration leads; (b) assemble all past exploration
data in the country and set up a data base to enable GOPNG to design oil exploration strategies;
and (c) strengthen the capacity of the Government to competitively bid out exploration blocks,
negotiate satisfactory work programs and monitor oil company activities.
The Petroleum Exploration TA Project fully met its two most important objectives
(ohiaetives (2) and (b) above) and nartiallv met the third- In addition. this was achieved for a
relatively modest outlay of about US$ 6 million, but it produced benefits to PNG far in excess of
this -pnAue The intf.atrnn arnalylus arn. interprtatio%n of aprlngicar 'n1 ge-opnhycical data
W .apfz.tAL.   l             -ft5lt.J~  f1fJ...  -klS  -'    -'- b--F"SMl- -  -tY-
of the four principal sedimentary basins in PNG provided an excellent basis for promoting them
to InLlUaLivilal Uil covimpaies iovi vepivlaLiVII. 28 1new pF+uLvulul popcIVJting% Ilicn w.-
quickly awarded and the rapid commercial discovery of oil at Iagifu in the Southern Highlands
occurred in i986. Tnis acted as a further spur to exploration and by project closure in 1988,
forty-two exploration licences had been awarded.
The Petroleum Exploration TA Project is assessed as having had a satisfactory overall
outcome, its sustainability has been demonstrated as highly likely, but its institutional
development impact was only modest because project management was in the hands of a non-
resident consulting firm and only a small amount of training took place. Bank and Borrower
performance during the project were satisfactory. The PCR also rated the project outcome as
satisfactory but considered the ID impact to have been substantial.
The main objectives of the second project were to (a) assist the Government in the
development of an improved framework of regulatory and ownership policies that would increase
investment in the petroleum sector and Government revenue; and (b) strengthen the capacity of
the Govern-ent for comprehensive management of petroleum exploration and development. An
important unstated objective of the Project was to train Papua New Guineans to take over all
senior management positions in ehe IiltIISL[y anu LU pihase oUL ApdLUIdLrb 1ro... 111ICn I11aIIagetIIIUnt.



2
The project appears to have substantially met its objectives and overall implementation
seems to have been highly successful. Th.e only shortcoming was the disappoiniting result in
attracting additional exploration investment to the sector. Capacity building was at the core of the
FJJL& . vJ L%1-   WGLO a i5LV1rI  uL U  vVIi'La"IFj ut I.LL;' FJL Uj-AL LPyUIJ . 1I1jJLF~LRt11.1LH1r~a~I,  LIMi.
Department of Petroleum, and a genuine commitment to capacity building in the sector. There
was lillit1i  political interference or corruption in tne sLor, which enabled proJect managers to
take decisions based on technical or merit considerations. This Performance Assessment
considers the performance of the project in institutional development to have been particularly
noteworthy. The project was also instrumental in the formulation and drafting of an extremely
important piece of sectoral legislation, the 1998 Oil and Gas Act.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the project's sustainability as l'ikely,
while the ICR considers the outcome to have been highly satisfactory and the sustainability as
highly likely. The ICR rating for ID impact is Substantial, but the PAR found the institutional
development impact of the proiect to be 'high', because of the extent of progress in the:
Department of Petroleum's capabilities in all key disciplines during the past decade and because
of the imnrovements in the legral frame.work and commlunitv narticinption resulting frnm the.
passage of the Oil & Gas Act. Both Bank and Borrower performance are rated as satisfactory by
the PAPR ,hi;le the ICR considers Bank per.for..ance to have been higy satis.fa-tory.
The, D PAD r--An widspea A- ag-e.   +U_a  Ithe goer.ren ha..d -po use of the
JLItI. I L rkl%. IVUIIU  WIL1.1jJIi.du  arL%,L.A1MX.4L tLuat LiMi. rVUVi..IiiiItLdL iiaa IIiaUi.  p u F UU   )  I LIii.-
revenues it receives from the extraction of natural resources. This unsatisfactory record should
___- -l--  __  .. _  -- -   r  _l   __  -   _-  _  ---   _   _  _ _T_ _  __ r_  -  T -   1_   -
provo-- a uc--t-et on ne vaiue Ui iuriner resource extrat;ion. iiiet chaengcii facing riu today is
better governance and more effective use of the diminishing resource rents. Encouraging more
exploration so as to sustain oil production beyond the end of the decade can only be justified if
there is a concerted effort to improve the composition and quality of public expenditure.
The main lessons learned from these projects are:
*  A country that is heavily reliant on revenues from a small number of oilfields with short
production lives cannot afford to let the pace of new exploration slacken. GOPNG now
faces a difficult neriod of economic adiustment brought on by declining oil revenues due
to the failure to ensure that new fields were brought on stream to compensate for
declining production.
*  Rer,is fi-0L110 n1a-ra0l r 1esource CAUraCtion are difficult 1 to maL.age, ,,Ve rise Lt counplexA issues
of distribution and equity within societies, are often poorly utilized to finance non-
productive activities, and create dependency. Tlne time/breathing space obtained from
their extraction is rarely sufficient to diversify the economy.
*  The benefits from improved natural resource management are lost if there are lapses in
governance. In PNG, the progress in managing the growth of the oil and gas industry has
not led to sustained economic benefits to the country because of the macroeconomic
mismanagement of the oil revenues. To avoid another 'lost decade', the encouragement
of additional exnloration to sustain declining oil nroduction can only he imstified if the
governance issue is addressed in tandem.
Attachment                                                  /
//z7 t
Kooert riCC10tto
by Gregory K. Ingram



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected resuits, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending onpertinns= Ascse_sments are conducted ore tno seven years fter nrnojectha hn c!osed. in selecting
operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant
to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested
assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches
selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs; OED staff examine project files and other doctuments, interviaw onperatinnal staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared intemally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disilosed to the public.
About the OED Rating Sy stemn
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rinnr aned necessary level of flexibility to adapt tn l!nd4ing intrument proect desinor
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.orgloed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operatinnal PoIiciesI. P_ssJibhe ratinns: HiMh, Substan.tia Mnrodt  enlignihie
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratinas: Hiah. Substantial, Modest. Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a retum higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alinnment of the missinn andr r, pacity of an organiz7atinn with its mandante, which deri.s from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactorv.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ...................................v
Key Staff Responsible             ..V
Preface..vii
1. Background                                    .1
2. Project Objectives                               .2
3.  Concept, Design And Quality At Entry ................ .................................................................3
4. Project Implementation .................................4
Success factors ................................5
5. Sectoral Issues .................................5
Declining exploration ................................S
Management of resource rents and their contribution to sustainable development  . 7
Managing relations with local commuities                 .7
Privatization oflviD ar.dL theu erea utwion of Orouger LvI LUinrl 9S.~
6. Ratings.10
Institutional development impact.10
Susaaiabbilit..J1
Bank Performance.12 ............                              -
Borrower Performnance .12
Overall Proie-t A -sss--t                                                   13
, _J     .. . .  sv  x- * sJ- g^c^&.............................................................................
7. Lessons Learned .13
8. Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .15
9. Annex C. Comments from the Borrower .19
This report was prepared, under|the supervision of Andres Liebenthal, by Sunil Mathrani, OEDST
l onsuinant, wno assessea tne project in February 2002. Ine report was edited by Wiiiiam Huribut, andc
Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
PETROL.I1M EXPLORATIfON TECI             CAL ASSSTANCE PROJE CT (Cr 1279-PNGr)
PCR*                         ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory                    N.R                      Satisfactory
Sustainability                   Likely                       N.R                     Highly Likely
Institutional                  Substantial                    N.R                       Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance                  N.R                         N.R                      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance              N.R                         N.R                     Satisfactory
N.R. Not rated; Evaluation summaries were not prepared at the time the completion report was issued.
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION & DEVELOPMENT TA PROJECT (Ln. 3670-PNG)
:Ca            ES                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PP-A R
Outcome                     Highly satisfactory         Highly satisfactory           Satisfactory
Sustainability                Highly likely                  Likely                      Likely
Institutional                  Substantial                 Substantial                    High
Development Impact
Bank Performance           Highiv Satisfactory          Highly satisfactorv           Satisfactorv
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completon Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION rECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Cr. 1279-PNG)
Project                          rask Manager/Leader           Division Chief!        Country Director
Secior Direu-cior
Appraisal                            R. Vedavalli              E. McCarthy                G. Kaji
Mid-term                             R. Vedavalli              E. McCarthy               G. Kaii
Completion                           S. Khwa_a                   N.Hope                R. Cheetham
PETROLEUM EXPLoRAToIN &DEVELOPMENT TA,PROJECT (Ln. 3670-PNG)
VI f ect                         I aaS IvianagVen1eaLuUr       UIVI'sIon Chif/        Counfr; D;recior
Sector Director
Appraisal                            S. Khwaja                  P. Scherer               M. Haug
Mid-term                             S. Khwaja                   Y. Sumi                 M. Haug
Completion                           S. Khwaja                   Y. Sumi                K. Rohland






vii
Preface
This is a Performance Assessment Report (PAR) on two technical assistance projects in
the petroleum sector of Papua New Guinea. Tne Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1279-PNG) was approved for an IDA Credit of SDR 2.7 million on July 1, 1982. The
project closed on June 30, 1988, 18 months later than the original plan. The Petroleum
Exploration & Development Technical Assistance Project was approved for an IBRD loan (Ln.
3670-PNG) of US$11 million on December 9, 1993. The original closing date of December 31,
1999 was extended until September 30, 2000.
This report is based on the Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) prepared by the
East Asia and Pacific Region, issued respectively on September 19, 1989 (Report No. 8069) and
March 22, 2001 (Report No. 21930), the Memoranda of the President. loan documents, proiect
files and discussions with Baiik staff. An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission
visited Papua New CGruinea in 1Ianunrv 2002 to disr1cri  the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance
with the government and the project implementing agency. The collaboration and assistance of all
their officials are graw.eU!!y actnowledged.
T,hIle objectives of thelp A D wrto()1se aavsae noucm,sustainability,
UUJ~LIV  u Lii~ 11AR rxweie LU k1) aav  aiiu vaiiuaLtizu uI~uULUI  ULaiiUi1ty,
institutional development impact, Bank and Borrower performance ratings of the project; (ii)
assess the longer term sustainability and impact of the institutional and reguiatory rerorms
supported by the project, and (iii) evaluate the distribution of benefits and costs from petroleum
development between the central, provincial, local governments and landowners, and the
institutional arrangements for transferring benefits to the affected landowner communities.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft of this PAR was sent to the borrower for
comments before finalization. The comments received were taken into account for revising the
report and are included in annex B to this report.






1.     Background
l.1    Papua New Guinea is a resource-rich country of 5.3 million peopie with a dual economy
and low human development indicators. In rural areas, where 80 percent of the population lives,
the main activity is subsistence agriculture. The formal sector of the economy is heavily reliant on
extractive industries-gold, copper, oil, and timber, which still depend on foreign capital and
expatriate management. During the 1990s, economic growth averaged 4 percent annually, much
higher than in the 1980s due to sharply increased mineral and oil production. Despite this growth,
key social indicators of development barely improved and remain well below those of middle-
income countries with a similar per-capita income.' Even the Prime Minister has described the
1990s as a "lost decade" of development for PNG. Macroeconomic nerforrnance was also noor.
with alternating cycles of expansion and contraction, persistent high inflation and a depreciating
r.irrnrvy during the past derade. R ea! growth was negative in both 2000 andn 00.l As indicated
in OED's Country Assistance Evaluation,2 "the inability to generate a supply response in the non-
lrvne   -    -s-ectoafl-Je in P.NG'1 s_ LII _I1.  A velop,%Lent eff.Ots to da.".,.
I. lr  I iu hIMLN LIUMIICItAdl iU UII UILuvu1y III rI'4'J WUN III Li.I aUULihIr-ii igiiioiiub rIUVllIA;r III
1986. Oil production began in 1992 in the Kutubu area of the Southern Highlands province, about
500k ilometers northwest of Port Moresby. Virtuaily all the crude oil is piped to an offshore marine
terminal for export, as there is virtually no oil refining in PNG.3 Peak production of 150,000 barrels
per day (bid) was achieved in 1993. In 1996/97 oil was PNG's largest export and it still accounts for
over 20 percent of export earnings and about 14 percent of GDP, despite declining output (to less
than 60,000 b/d in 200 1).4 Oil continues to make a significant contribution to government revenues.
GOPNG received more than US$160 million in taxes and royalties from the sector in 2001 and has
grown heavily dependent upon these oil revenues during the past decade. No other sector is capable
of making up for the anticipated shortfall in the coming years as oil production continues to decline.
1.3    PNG's proven and probable gas reserves (about 15 trillion cubic feet) are about seven
times as much as oil in energy terms, and are expected to increase. Virtually all associated gas is
currently reinierted into the oilfieldq be_rr-ne of the lanck of 2 suiffirient1v lqrgre dom-estii m ,rket to
justify the construction of a pipeline. However, a major (US$3.5 billion) export project via a
pipline across the Tlorrs St: to Qune,anl, .n al.ltr.lo, is being prep  by a .ncnsr.i:r of
private investors. GOPNG is also likely to take a significant equity stake in the project. Over a
JO-yar erio, aout5 tril:ion cubic `  "e (T Cr of_ -a is% ------e tob  xp_dtoQens
IV -year pel[IUU auUI t Lti IUI LUUl IUUL kl-U UI tl lb UApII..4U LU U-_V AJUIL~UL LU I.YU-VIIb1d1IU
through a 3,200-kilometer pipeline system. About two-thirds of the investment would take place
in PNG, making the Gas to Queensiand (G T Q) project the largest-ever industriai deveiopment.
1.4    GTQ is a crucial project for both the sector and the national economy. While its initial
contribution to govemment revenue will be modest, there will be secondary effects through the
enhanced attractiveness of exploration and the development of gas-related industries. It will also
provide a breathing space for diversifying the productive base of the PNG economy away from its
over-dependence on petroleum.
1.5    The Bank's involvement with the petroleum sector in PNG dates from 1980, when
GOPNG first sought its assistance. This led to the approval of a Petroleum Exploration TA Credit
1. Adult litracv stnannatPe St nhmti S7 nePre.nt and life eynertanev was nn1v SR venrq helnw tht nvernaP fnr lnw-
income countries. Infant mortality at 79 per 1000 live births is also high.
2. Reponrt 20I 83, March 2000.
3There is a 1600 bpd topping plant at the Kutubu field.
4. Production in 2002 is expected to be about 50,000 b/d.



2
(Cr. 1279-PNG) in mid-1982. A second operation (also reviewed here) followed in mid-1993 and
a third,a gnc TA project, wav approved in 20.
2.     Project Objectives
2.1    According to the Memorandum of the President (MOP)5 for the Petroleum Exploration
TA project, its objectives were to (a) generate an integrated picture of PNG's petroleum potential
and identify new exploration leads; (b) assemble all past exploration data in the country and set
up a database to enable GOPNG to design oil exploration strategies; (c) strengthen the capacity of
the government to comnetitivelv bid out exnloration blocks, negotiate satisfactory work
programs, and monitor oil company activities; and (d) evaluate the potential for commercial gas
development both for pnouwr anri gas.-based export projects.
2.2  Given the lack of interest in explorn inI"b  h n.e,fin!o!idu+    ntelt
L~S.  .Ji'I'lltit,latt  .JIJIV..ltO A  -  ,aJ ...fl 115III A I I  %J.  lIlt' flhlL%,ilI   Wil . . JI  il UtlU3Ll   IlI LiltlasL
1 970s, the sparse and scattered nature of data on the country's petroleum geology and the
comp'lete lack o0 ar.y natiuonai expertise ir, peiJoleumi materS iI GPrINU adt Lihat ime, the project
objectives were appropriate and relevant to the prevailing conditions.
2.3    The objectives of the Petroleum Exploration & Development TA project were to (a)
assist the government in the development ot an improved framework of regulatory and ownership
policies that would increase investment in the petroleum sector and government revenue; (b)
strengthen the capacity of the government for comprehensive management of petroleum
exploration and development; (c) upgrade the capacity of the government to gather, process,
analyze and market to international investors exploration and development data on the sector; (d)
formulate better standards for safe and efficient storage, handling and transportation of petroleum
products; and (e) evaluate the potential for commercial development of natural gas reserves for
LNG exnort. develon an approinate framework for gas develonment. and present the results in
international seminars to attract investment.
2.4    With the exception of objective d (that dealt with downstream issues and was thus
unrelated to the others6), the proJect's obJectives were highly relevant and appropriate tO the
problems confronting the sector in the mid-1990s and to the GOPNG's development goals. In
paiticular, builiUIIg institut.ioai capaclity was a recurring theine uf BDaik assistance to PNG-i in -he
early 1990s and it is still relevant today. Sector regulation and policies had developed in an ad
hoc manner over the previous decade and needed to be rationalized, harmonized, and clarified.
Gas resources were considered to be substantial and there was no strategy for developing them.
The inclusion in the project scope of studies on gas development at a time when the Petroleum
Division was heavily preoccupied in matters associated with oil production was far sighted.
2.5    An important unstated objective of the project was to train Papua New Guineans to take
over all senior management positions in the newly upgraded Petroleum Division (PD) and to
phase out expatriates from line management.
5. There was no SAR.
6GOPNG commented that this was objective was included at the insistence of the Bahk.



3
3.     Concept, Design, and Quality at Entry
3.1    The Petroleum Exploration TA project was part of a cohort of standard Bank-supported
projects dating from the late 1970s/early 1980s, that were widely implemented across non-oil
developing countries in the wake of the second (1980) oil crisis. Concerned about the burden of
oil imports, the Bank sought to assist its borrowers to assess their hydrocarbon potential and
promote it to international oil companies (IOCs) in order to discover and develop commercial oil
and gas deposits. Given the absence of local sectoral expertise, the project was designed, prepared
and largely implemented by international consultants. which was not unusual for nroiects of this
type in that era.
3.2    The aide-memoire of the final supervision mussion of the Petroleum Exploration TA
nrmiPrt in lnte- l 9Q8 rpecnrd the nrpesing nelend fo%r a  n  ,rnit to  -r-Ilft the r
r.J. r-_ --- *-_- ... t1._.,,.. FJW -_ _-  - AsWtw-- k z _ots
achieved. It appears that a proposal for a new project had already been prepared, but
unfortunately there was a five-year hiatus in t.he Bank's assistan-ce to the st I_  irs; projec;
closed in 1988, just as the workload and demands on GOPNG arising from the finalization of the
Kutubu oil project were hign anu wnen it wouil nave been abie to Denerit rrom tecnnicai
assistance since the sector still suffered from an acute shortage of specialist skills. At that point,
the entire government expertise in petroleum consisted only ot 12 protessionals, ot whom 5 were
expatriates. Clearly this was insufficient to deal with the additional responsibilities of supervising
a new and rapidly expanding oil and gas production industry.
3.3    Until then, sector activities had been limited to exploration only, but with the advent of
oil production, the workload was rising and new skills would need to be developed. By this stage
the international recruitment of senior staff with oil industry experience on GOPNG pay scales
was not possible. Moreover, tightening government budgets meant that the use of international
consultants was increasingly difficult without external funding. But for reasons internal to
GOPNG, the reauest to the Bank for a new TA nroiect was delayed until 1990. Further delays
then ensued as a result of the time required to reach agreement on how to reorganize the
insttutionnl seuphin fnr petrnleutm within the Tlpnrtr.r.nt nf M;   inAe .nn.d Pnrm,
3.4    At aprial fth     on   rJeti lat    0191 the B,kn-I-- had clear- vision of the steps
ALt a p. u o f.tn  hes'  t..tut p.s.jJLct tin  jut...  J99, Li, LI ... LS Ic% c. U At at It t   IVIMUI VI LAIL., LF
needed to build up the Petroleum Branch's capabilities. The strategy essentially consisted of (i)
separating petroleuiii sector Iii,,geui,eni . wu policy iiiiJng iroiii Iuinulig, wiiich stil; uuidinaieu
the activities and mindset of the combined Department of Minerals and Energy and (ii) providing
a major injection of technical assistance for a transitional period to enable locai professional staff
to acquire the skills and experience to replace expatriates in line management.'
3.5    It took two years to bring the second project to the Board,8 due to the departmental
reorganization that led to the separation of responsibility for petroleum from the Geological
Survey, the creation of a self-standing Petroleum Division (PD) in mid-1993,9 and the time
needed to build an internal consensus in support of the localization policy and accompanying
external TA team. These were major changes critical to the success of the project and the
inordinate delay, though regrettable, did ensure that there was full GOPNG ownership of its
objectives and of the localization strateyv before the start of oroiect implementation"'.
7. Hereafter referred to as "localization."
8. Nevertheiess, it was feit that a reappraisal or post-appraisal was not required.
9. Although still within the combined Department of Mining and Petroleum.
") GOPNG commented that this was critical to the project's eventual success.



3.6    It is surprising that despite the importance and high profile of the social and political
aspects of natural resource extraction in PNG, the second project contained no explicit mention of
these issues. At appraisal the project design was overwhelmingly technocentric in scope ". Yet in
1990, as part of the Kutubu development agreements, GOPNG had decided to share sorne of the
project benefits with local landowners. It should have been apparent at appraisal that complex
community and land-related issues would need to be addressed as part of the PD's supervision of
oil production from Kutubu. In practice they did become a prominent feature of the PD's
activities during the project period and came to be included in the scope of the policy formulation
activities supported by the project. Managing community relations in the coming years will be an
increasing part of the PD's workload as the gas industry is developed.'2
3.7     There is little detail in the MOP for the second project on the type of technical assistance
3nnl trainine tn hp. nrnvitip-I tintpr thp nrni,rt Tt nnnpnrc tn hav.- hP-n Incnpiv dlpfin^cl nt thp ctnrt
possibly to allow flexibility to tailor the assistance to meet needs as they emerged in the course of
ir.plem.entati.                  LVJonsequently, the pject was ableV tOasiL LiI thLe CLarI,alys UIU a e,finition. oi
landowner benefit policy, which was becoming a prominent and politically sensitive aspect of the
socio-econoMul uiicellsiuiis 01 peuoleuimi uevelopme:IL. Ul llne WILII DBinK prac,iLe at etML time, no
performance indicators were established initially, although the ICR makes a useful attempt to
assess performance using broad qualitative indicators that were retrofitted during implementation.
The contrast with the degree of detail provided in the PAD for the follow-on Gas Development
and Utilization TA Project, approved in fiscal 2000, is striking.
4.     Projiect Implementation
A.     T,. ' etol-r D_p-1--o Tr A D--Jec fully -+.+tis tw  ,otirrportt objectiives
'V.I    III%, L ,LL  IVL.,III L-~AF'1l aLfll  IVJL I I%JLjL~L lUll3  lllL',. IL  L VU  l11VIaL lilij)LvI LaiIL VWJ%JJ ,LA..J  I'
(objectives a and b above) and partially met the other two. This was achieved for a relatively
mrrodest outlay of about US$6 million, bu t i produced benefits to PNG far in excess of this
expenditure. The integration, analysis, and interpretation of geological and geophysical data of
the four principai sedimentary basins in PNG provided an excellent basis for promoting them to
IOCs for exploration. In fact, the Papuan Basin studies are still in use today. As a direct result of
the basin studies and promotional efforts, GOPNG received numerous bids for exploration
blocks. Twenty-eight new petroleum prospecting licenses were quickly awarded and thie rapid
commercial discovery of oil at Iagifu in the Southern Highlands occurred in 1986. This acted as a
further spur to exploration and by project closure in 1988, forty-two exploration licenses had been
awarded.
4.2    The poor institutional arrangements for petroleum affairs, with responsibilities divided
hbtwee..n the. GlgPAnicnal RSrvey andi thpe Mines. Divicion (ne.ither of which r-nnCiri-tdrl it tn hp a
high priority), were partly remedied under the project by the creation in 1986 of a Petroleum
ivision, albeit still under the Geological SLLU ve3 . VI1I petroloumlat-1-ed activities were
consolidated in the Division, as recommended by an institutional study funded by the project.
T----t---               _2  -- -                   -   Ii …
P'uFlr-he 1irLUti uiol -refor-IL Wu followedas paur of the appraisal of tihe fo;;ow-un project. A sma;;
f.JJl i -- P -iJ+-dA that at Ui. ir.eit wa not conceiveAd ,hat ereL WoUIAl IU-su  a hIghI proi:e, .he social andu
political aspects of petroleum resource development since the physical impact and footprint of petroleum operations are
verv much less than that of mining- In addition- managing uich issues was not a core Departmental fknction.
12. The subsequent gas TA project also appears to have underestimated needs in this area and a new TA operation
specifically to deal with social issues of petroleum development is under preparation.
13 This was a misnomer because it was actually a branch of the Geological Survey Division.



5
amount of training of PNG nationals also took place, but this too was given much greater
nr~1rnnPnrp- in th- c,ilI'ip,,i,iot nrrniort
promnenc inthe subsequent. F.rojec.
4.31   T.e M -olu,            .-Aoato  ndDvlp,,n A p,otzpa    -s-ohv  us+tal lG
" *.  Ii.&uflhf J.AFJwL UL1JiI CUIU  V1Ji &i.4IL   FALWJIU~.. aFJj9. O w V IKC) ii llav UULCUJULial  IMILL
all its objectives. Overall implementation seems to have been highly successful; this PAR examines
UL'lt; reasons fou itss sUCCC55 Smetuhe I'Ul   duces Iiut auequaiteiy eIu.IUuate tHem. I ne omiy snorLtall in
meeting objectives identified by this PAR concerns the disappointing results in attracting additional
exploration investment to the sector (objective a). I nis issue is discussed in paras. 5. i-5.5.
4.4    The contrast with the poor performance of most other Bank-funded projects in PNG is
striking (or even with TA projects in other countries). Only 15 percent of projects in PNG since
1989 were rated as sustainable, compared to a Bank average of 47.percent, while only 8 percent
of completed projects in PNG since then have a substantial rating for institutional development,
among the lowest in the Bank. In addition, this project was implemented during a period in which
the external context was not at all propitious-there were serious macroeconomic problems,
leading to cuts in public expenditure. Reductions took place in the size of the civil service, and a
recruitment freeze left the DPE with unfunded or vacant positions at a time when it was suffering
serious skills attrition to the private sector because of its poor remuneration package.
Success Factors
4.5    As mentioned earlier, there was a strong degree of ownership of the Petroleum
Exploration and Development TA Project by the department of Petroleum and Energy (DPE) and
a genuine commitment to capacity building in the sector. There was limited political interference
or corruption in the sector, which enabled project managers to make decisions based on technical
or merit considerations. The highly technical nature of the skills reauired to regulate the
petroleum industry made it easier to demarcate DPE and the project from the rest of PNG's public
administration- The nature of the industry itself-at the cutting edge of technologvy fast evolving,
and highly meritocratic also facilitated the change in mentalities and working styles required to
r.oiinthe DPE of today rm h old I et-rleu.. Bra.-I of thA eole.a  uvy
in its implementation. The willingness of former expatriate Director of Petroleum to remain as an
adviser aiter the post was localized is a case in puoiit.. Inie readiness of iiis furmer suuoru,iiaLes to
profit from his experience and not consider him as a lame duck was also a positive factor. The
long continuity of the Bank task manager, who had the confidence and respect of the borrower,
was equally crucial.
5.     Sectoral Issues
Declining Exploration
5.1    While PNG was perceived as an attractive home for petroleum investment in the late
1980s and early 1990s, its image has changed in recent years and it is now seen as a difficult and
unattractive environment. Maior companies have withdrawn,'5 exploration has almost ceased, and
it suffers from several handicaps in attracting foreign oil companies to explore for oil, at a time
14 GOPNG pointed out that the prior experience of key project staff of working in the petroleum industry also helped in
this regard.
15. Such as BP, Shell, Mobil, Amoco, BHP Petroleum.



6
when other countries competing with it to attract foreign investment capital have impro ved their
fiscal regimes and onened access to new resources.'6
5.2     Despite_ the. r_nnrl1sinnQ nf n rpcent Asin Development Bank-financed review of
taxation,'7 which stated, "the fiscal regime has become uncompetitive, confidence in fiscal
mLbJ14l h-a been_ sha-1-y A._dAJ and the.- . r lh -k-.-.e fh "_omeless' ttW*rOajrent " GONG ha snen
little to redress the situation. On the contrary, fiscal terms were tightened recently by the
Depar)triieni of1 T uryul, despite u',e adV1ie VI IDr,. "roiUJIeUL LUkIIab  were aUU1bllsU, unV ceiling
on the tax credit scheme was reduced, and the Additional Profits Tax on returns beyond a certain
threshold (which act as a strong deterrent) was retained. in the opinion of the petroleum industry,
PNG's incentive framework is no longer attractive enough to compensate for the other lperceived
drawbacks of exploring there, namely:
*   Its geology seems to yield more gas than oil and there is no ready market for ga,s within
the country and arrangements for gas exports have not yet been finalized.
*   Political risk factors. in particular concerns about insecurity (a failure to maintain law and
order'9) and possible interruptions to production due to protests by disgruntled local
people.
*   iI.fe high cost ofl onshore UdIII1 Ing dUv tu rIvI10EV 1UcLation, pJoor iiLauM.LU%Uil.u-`.eLI all
equipment, supplies, and personnel have to be transported by helicopter-and the lack of
competition among local suppliers of drilling and transport services, were among tne
reasons cited.
5.3     Regardless of the specific factors determining industry decisions not to explore, the
extremely low level of exploration activity in the past two years strongly suggests that GOPNG
should be urgently looking to enhance rather than diminish its incentive package, as wats recently
done. The DPE appears to have been unsuccessful in getting its message across to the T'reasury
about the risks to the GOPNG budget from the slump in exploration activity and the need to
enhance the incentives for exploration.
5.4     The government has no control over geology and can do little to reduce drilling costs.
Politicnl risks are theoretically uithin its control, hut in reality the Rtate in PNGT is extr-.ren1v weak_
maintenance of law and order in some areas is beyond the capacity of the police and it can do little
to LI,L,pse its con-1o over 1-1s prote- mover,en-s T.he only -e,ning efi ectivxe policy -oo a. t
'ULiiU L O %,1. .lJILLvJI uvL;'I LJt.G.I FiUL%.aL IIUV .lll.41 . L5.111. W.LII)7 L1.IIIGLIIIAi1Ab  ~1 -. Ii~'.   -it  j''A1-..Y t.'L- O.
disposal is the fiscal regime. GOPNG should be more cognizant of the mobility of international
investment in petroleum exploration ana seek to rapiudy reuress its pour imidage in LIIe Inuustly.
5.5     Failing exploration today inevitably means lower production in the future, which will
damage public finances and reduce funding for social sectors. In less than a decade GOPNG has
became overly dependent21' upon the rents from petroleum extraction. Now it faces serious
adjustment problems and belt tightening as oil production declines and these rents shrink. The
16. In the late 1990s. even India. one of the fiercest champions of exploration by its national oil corporation, sought
bids from lOCs for exploration in new areas under more attractive fiscal terms.
I:. R%eviW VI Lthe 1,0 re.r1.es fUo 1rUin11rg a  hyLUdroca.U-boU, Oc-eUIJ2..
18. These give greater tax concessions for exploration in riskier areas.
19. Particularly acute in the Southern Highlands, where "warlordism" is developing and there is an influx of modem
weaponry.
20. Partly because of the loss of revenues due to the shutdown of the Bougainville copper mine.



7
adding of new taxation measures by GOPNG in the 1990s was largely a response to short-term
revenue needs in a deteriorating macroeconomic environment, but this has had serious adverse
consequences for the long-term sustainability of oil production. There may now be an unjustified
degree of insoucianne./nomnplacency in government that aid donors will sten un their spnnnort if
petroleum receipts dry up.
Box 1: Management of Resource Rents and Their Contribution to Sustainable Development
The poor macroeconomic performance and bad social indicators of PNG during the 1990s, its 1
mismanagement of the public resource flow from extractive industries, and great dependence upon these
rents, indicate that exploitation of its natural resources have contributed little to sustainable economic
development of the country. This unsatisfactory record should provoke a debate on the value of further
resource extraction.
There is widespread agreement that the national government has made poor use of the resource flow to it
from both the netroleum and mining sectors A Ir.ge pronortion of these revenues are consumed by non-
productive sections of the society, such as the triple layer of government.2' In effect, non-renewable
resources are being depleted to finance current consumption rather than investment. Matters are made
worse by the very poor returns on public investments, as well as outright leakages from misappropriation of
funds or padding of public contracts. With hindsight it appears that aid donors (including the Bank) should
have done more to influence the composition of the public investment program during the 1990s. Due to
the macroeconomic imbalances, attention was understandably focused on the overall levels of public
expenditures and less on the quality of the public investment program itself.
1iI L.1e IIr IdU1e1cinig rP'4GJ LUday is better gUvVwzIawiLr  ar. r..ore ef11ective use VI t0 , Udiminishing r tsou,-ce I
rents. Encouraging more exploration so as to sustain oil production beyond the end of the decade can only
Ub JUOkILi%,U iL the.- is a conceLLl.,I LULL LU JlilpjVVI,v LIIth co oi:iJJUonLlUIl 'I'l uquaiI:y vi Fuul . l..
Managing Relations with Local Communities
5.6    The development of oil and gas resources in PNG during the 1990s has been relatively
benign from a human perspective, even if the impact on traditional society in project areas has
been enormous. Th.e "rights" of local commiunities to a direc-t share in the rentR was arrepted
from the start of oil development, even though there is a contention that all subsurface natural
resources elong    .tot ta. However, the PNG Constituion does not expliitly stat thi. No
forced land acquisition or expropriation took place, and confrontations between the oil industry
anu laruownriers h'a-ve not degeeratted to tie point Of violence.
5.7    iI all petroleum resources do belong to the State as explicitly stated in the i9 II
Petroleum Act and its 1998 successor Oil and Gas Act, then the State can decide how much of the
rent from exploiting them it will give away, in what form and to whom. But this is a premise that
few citizens accept, believing that what lies under their land is also their property. Given the weak
capacity of the State and its lack of reach into rural areas, it is the power of veto over access to
resources that really counts, not the legal ownership. Hence the importance of good local
community relations for project developers and GOPNG.
21. PNG has national, provincial, and local levels of government.
22. The President's report for the Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan (Rpt. # P7374, Mav 2000), recoznizes that
poor governance and high levels of corruption lie at the heart of PNG' s problems."
23 GOPN Tom.ete U-a ending axloon would be 'l-,*caoun; t.o "illing the patient ra+'.rtar udngacr
fJo the J LUn ILesLs'. U hulL WIUI1lr VAjIVI u u, llUUil LU K1111IJ5 tiiaLIL IaI uII uUIUuI5 a ,..
for the illness'.



Q
5.8    During the approval process for the Kutubu oil project GOPNG accepted demands from
lIanUUWnIers adteIVU uy LIIt project WI d asdlar in thre bI eneflitNs to bCe rCCeived by IhC stLa.e, even
though the 1977 Act only entitled them to compensation for deprivation and damage resulting
from the project. Ultimately, GOPNG yieided 30 percent of its equity in the Kutubu pro.ject to
landowners and provincial governments in the two affected provinces. The principle of sharing
royalties with the local community was also accepted at the same time.
5.9    Dividends on equity and royalty payments are predominantly disbursed in cash to local
communities, with profound effects on socio-economic behavior. They have rarely led to
improvements in living standards and have increased social inequality. The basis for entitlement
to benefits is land ownership by clans rather than project-affected persons. Some beneficiaries
have abandoned their traditional pursuits and have come to depend entirely on these handouts.
Others receive so little that subsistence agriculture and hunting/zathering continue to be their
mainstay. A small minority who were important in traditional clan power structures have become
urbanized and consume conspicuously, thanklc tn their cnntrnl over fiinds that they spend on
themselves rather than sharing out to other clan members.
5.10   On the basis of the PAR mission's discussions with stakeholders in the oil and gas
-d ,arr;--  -tA   _ftl- Q-thor- Tin_h]-Ar  oz A ; ;n  -e_-__  +t-nE  t   DAt _1A_- ;_ ;;A
F._ =..r  -.-   - I~. ul                IL 10 ~ C+KQ- ,II LIQ  Ll,e leio m   ID v ision is
p.Vxt.9.nn5  an14 -J VlU Lt t1*fs 4lf 1151wr0IJV1UItII.s6s^IU, I I I t_w   10 apjiai.JIJUXt uit}l  t11t X '.tiUitUIU  V  t;I Vl'i
seen as the principal point of contact24 for the local community to interact with the government.
lv, ILLCt Ila gener:y eUeCni very pUUI dL Katkepig its L[UIIlsls Lu tlainuuwners, wiiu iiuuiber few-er
than 15,000. The provincial government is corrupt, moribund, and irrelevant to the lives of most
local people.25 Many of them therefore see the DPE as a kind of coordination agency for aii types
of economic development activity. But the DPE has little ability to get other national government
departments (or the provincial government) to fulfill their obligations to the local communities
for the provision of rural infrastructure and services. Its field offices are also thinly staffed and
under-resourced, which handicaps their ability to function as an "honest broker" in company-
landowner matters.
5.11   The growing lawlessness and criminal activity linked to tribal conflicts in the Southern
Highlands Province has led to a breakdown of the few existing community services, such as
village schools, and makes even travel by road hazardous. The chronic inabilitv of GOPNG to
maintain law and order is one of the most serious handicaps to economic development and a
deterrent to potential inveqrm.ent of a!! kinds, locr2 nr fArpin.n
5.12   T.h.e oil industry has also shouldered a largse part. of t.he~ repniblt for provision of
rural infrastructure and social services in the project areas as an unavoidable cost of obtaining the
gooUwiltl of  U ,e loc4a cornuinuInity. Pal. of thlCe capital expeniunItres cari be uoIfet ain5istL LUAUs,
but there are numerous cases of wasted or underused facilities because of the subsequent lack of
provincial government runaing to cover operating costs. ne consortium operating Kuttubu is now
keen to reduce its involvement in these activities that are external to its core business. 'In 2001 it
set up a non-profit company, the Community Development Initiatives Foundation, to run its
development projects on an arms-length basis and to assist in creating sustainable non--oil
activities that will create employment opportunities in the future.
24. Development agreements for projects are signed by the Minister of Petroleum on behalf of GOPNG, so the
responsibility of ensuH.ng that th'e go-vem.n-iert ,..ieets -its unuenakings to -oa I ouunie fa; on lhe DPE. 1 _  --
1~0UI~IU1IY U  ~i~uiig uol LLC  UVVILIIClL11zcL  IL cuiueiwiigb t Lou a o mmniie UIfII L aC ils on rine  WEt.
25. This in not unique to the Southern Highlands. The Western province, PNG's largest and home to the Ok Tedi
copper mine, is also known for its weak administration and the provincial government was suspended in 2000/01 for its
managerial and financial shortcomings.



9
Privatization of MRDC and the Creation of Orogen Minerals
5.13   In order to mobilize resources for the budget, GOPNG decided in 1996 to partially
nrivatize. its holdincg in minera! nnid nPtroleuim nrn,p-tg 26 Prpvioulyv thesve wepre held by thp
Minerals Resources Development Company (MRD)C).2" Rather than sell the holdings piecemeal,
the- w,ereC nc_nla,i.tA into a ne., corpa- 0-gen .,ine,-ls, created pecia!!y fo this purpose.
Fourty-nine percent of the shares in Orogen were floated on the Australian stock exchange in a
htighly success'Lul1 TLrO1 th'a; was 110-timles oversubscrLibwe andriseu mdro,-eL.han US$200 Mll:ion f0r
GOPNG. The novel approach to the sale of state assets offered several features designed to appeal
to potential investors ana tnereDy ennancea tne potential receipts to LuriNU rrom tne sale. in
effect, the risks of large variations in profitability and dividends characteristic of these industries
were somewhat attenuated by pooling the diverse assets in Orogen. In addition, investors were
offered the upside potential arising from Orogen' s right to acquire a stake in future petroleum and
mining projects.
5.14   The concept of creating a mixed public-private investment vehicle for a stockmarket
flotation came from the Treasury and its financial advisers; DPE and the Bank were not involved
or consulted in the design of this operation. However, the Petroleum TA project was used to
finance the extensive legal preparation of the flotation of Orogen in late 1996 as well as technical
advice on petroleum fields.
5.15   In early 2002, GOPNG agreed to merge Orogen with a private Australian exploration and
nrhdlrtian fi,,rm autive. in the PNGC~ nul cpro t r, Or)iI Sar-h.nn ncai,n the nrpmnmn ymt,iv,ationn for
GOPNG appears to be the need to raise revenue, particularly in an election year.28 Given the
Aep.-essed Orogen shiare pritce, onvauloair,th rerr_.a ining1111  497 percen;;L VI O_Lroge hld bI- y GJ.. -OPNG-
would not have been easy to justify politically. The cash payout to shareholders allows the
government to receive a cash injection witnout seeming to be selling state assets "on tne cneap."
But in exchange, the GOPNG stake in the new merged company will be only 18 percent. As part
of the proposed merger with Oil Search, Orogen will lose the right to acquire a stake in future
petroleum and mining projects, although GOPNG will continue to have these rights.
5.16   There was no DPE involvement or prior analysis in this strategic decision to further dilute
GOPNG's holdings in the petroleum sector. This operation appears to offer considerable benefits
to Oil Search and its shareholders since Orogen (unlike Oil Search) has a very healthy balance
sheet, no debt -and cash reserves. GOPNG will obtain a significant inflow of funds that it is
seeking and hence favors the merger. However, minority shareholders in Orogen are likely to be
discontented by its disappearance because of the loss of potential gains from a stake that Orogen
could have acnuired in fiiture mining and petrole-um projerts_
5.17   Asaconsequencenof thn ee ichittiAn of Orogen, the need .for retaining MRC asastate
holding company is now open to question and its only remaining role as the custodian of the
re..4a:ningILUXI slubiicL1 paI%.-i.iaIUon III .UILuniI azru .d peUoleuII should be L.-Veview.
26. GOPNG had minority stakes in the Kutubu and Gobe oil projects and in the Porgera, Misima, and Lihir mines.
27. After the transfer of GOPNG shares to Orogen. MRDC continued to hold shares on behalf of nrovincial
governments and landowners in the same projects. It also held the State's remaining 51 percent stake in Orogen as well
as the 30 percent holding in Ok Tedi, which had not been transferred to Orogen.
28. Orogen shareholders will receive a A$0.45/share cash payment as well as shares in the newly merged company.



6.     Ratings
Inizui ---I       pilel ,.spa-
I                                                   4 . . .  I  I  r   . .  .  - - *-.*A
6.1    Thne institutional development impact of the first petroleum T A project is assessea as
modest. It was essentially run as an "offshore" operation with project management and
implementation largely in the hands of a non-resident consulting tirm. Only a small amount of
training of national staff took place since capacity building was not the central focus of the
project. However, the process of institutional reforms leading to the creation of a fully fledged
Department of Petroleum was initiated under the project, which was an important first step.
6.2    At present there is an ongoing Bank-financed Gas TA project, which continues the
institutional development process begun under the previous two projects. This makes it hard to
separate the impact of the (second) Petroleum Exploration and Development TA project from the
ongoing project because there was no gap between them. Nevertheless, this performance
assessment considers the contribution of the second TA nroiect in institutional develonment to
have been particularly noteworthy. The project was instrumental in formulating and drafting an
extremely importnnt piere of sectornl legislatlion, the 1998 Oil nnd Gas Act. It is a compn.rehensive
document29 that supercedes the incomplete legal instruments and ad hoc Cabinet-approved
m.an eren t.s preevi.ou sly),- go v e.MIir,in thle sector. 'A Ie Oil arA G-  A-+ introduce ref;.nements to th,e
WI  15.,lffl,flLOF" ~nJOIy5. V%11113  Sf3% O.tL~I.  1~  ..IIO.IU %JACO CL%L XI 11 'U~Ut~&1I U  IILILI Ito t  LLt'
laws on pipelines, processing facilities, downstream petroleum activities and numerous technical
amendiiensll. In additUionU, it blkroke new giuniiU In (i) iuriliaiiziing Luc priii(Ipies for reventue
sharing among the different branches of government and landowners, (ii) setting out the proces?s
of consultations with stakehoiders on new projects, and (iii) determining landowner beneficiaries
by means of obligatory ex-ante social mapping and landowner identification studies. The Act also
formally reserves an equity and royalty benefit for project area landowners, as well as for local
and provincial governments, but caps it at 20 percent of the total net benefit to the State from
petroleum projects. This was a way of safeguarding the interests of the rest of the PNG
population and of future generations. The Oil and Gas Act is generally viewed as a gocid basis for
future sector development, despite the need for greater precision on a number of issues relating to
landowner benefits and their administration.
6.3    Canacitv building was at the core of the second nroiect. The ICR rates the institutional
development impact of the project as substantial and provides supporting evidence. The 1993
MWOP fnr the projert contains onlu sketchu inforrnation on the strengths an.d weanessers of the
Department of Mining and Petroleum at the time of appraisal, but it appears to have been small,
nderI I-4uiFFtu, lackIng1 "I            FCUAiIIcai  exprL.iseUIa.ily ar e-gadlu jrLIUICUIII 1n,neri,1
petroleum law, and economics and land/community affairs. By project closure in 2000, the
PLetrUIeurn Division nad 5 branches, the replacement or expatriate managers Dy iocai stafr had
been successfully completed, and there were 34 PNG nationals working for the PD as
professionals.: Ilie FD also has an explicit policy of succession planning for senior managers,
which reduces its vulnerability to sudden departures.
6.4    The ICR is insufficiently explicit on the quality and results of the large3' TA team from
the British Geological Survey (BGS) that provided a wide range of assistance during a four-year
period, although it is implied that the overall contribution was satisfactory. The arrangement
29. 130 pages in length
30. The numher has risen to 57 since then- as a result of a large recrmitmnwt of iunior staff.
31. As many as 10 at peak, although the average number was considerably lower.



I 
could have easily failed to produce the desired improvements. It was costly and risky to put in a
large team of resident expatriates for 4 years. It could have given rise to sentiments of resentment
among counterpart staff, and skills transfer often suffers if the TA is sucked into operational
tasks. The PAR mission found that most of these nitfalls were avoided. thanks to close
supervision by both the client and the Bank. BGS was kept on a tight leash and unsatisfactory
performers on its tearm were rnn2erpla   There ic a enpra! cnnepnsuie th2t the benefits nf the TA
outweighed the costs.
6.5    Oil industry representatives and other branches of GOPNG interviewed by the PAR
m11ission universally reognized that the present capabilities of the DPF were in large pait
attributable to the capacity building undertaken by these TA projects. All indicated that DPE is
now much better equipped in skills and resources, has become more assertive and decisive in
carrying out its work, and its staff have matured and gained confidence to deal with senior oil
industry managers. DPE's views are influential in determining GOPNG policies, and it is a key
participant in the PNG team responsible for negotiating the GTQ project.
6.6    The PAR rates the institutional development impact of the project as high because of the
extent of progress in the DPE's capabilities in all key disciplines during the past decade and
because of the improvements in the legal framework and community participation resulting from
the passage of the Oil and Gas Act.
Sustainability
6.7    Sufficient time has elapsed since the completion of the first Petroleum TA project to
show that the sustainability of its benefits was highly likely. Exploration activity was triggered by
the project and took place on a large scale. Substantial reserves of hydrocarbons were proven and
oil has been produced for the past decade. As stated earlier, benefits from the basin studies
continue to be felt today, nearly 15 years later.
6.8    While the ICR of the (second) Petroleum Exploration and Development TA proiect
indicates that sustainability is highly likely, it also highlights the issue of the loss of skilled staff
to the private sector due to noor remuneration. Fortunately, most of the staff who left the PD
remained within the PNG oil sector and thus their skills are not lost to the country. This
phenom.enon was brought to a halt by thie shrinkage in activitu in the petroleum industry in the
past two years, but it could resume, albeit on a lesser scale, when work commences on the GTQ
pj1cJ-t, pmtU-.noa1y if the DP  ,-eni.une.latLon, pFac  doe nAt-  i i.rpve. Thr l ar attemp__ts -Ande
the ongoing Gas TA project to enhance the attractiveness of remaining with the Petroleum
Division, such as by maitng it a statutory auLhority with more attractive pay scales. T nis has been
done in other sectors, but with mixed results.32 An acute lack of affordable housing for public
sector employees in Port Moresby also contributes to the difficuity of retaining staff.
6.9    The DPE will continue to require external assistance in the next 5-10 years, albeit of a
different nature. The GTQ project will place a considerable burden on it and as the gas industry
develops and diversifies, new expertise will be needed for example in promoting LPG utilization.
Domestic oil refining33 is expected to start within the next two years and in the medium-term an
LNG export scheme may also be feasible. Continuous training will be required to keep up skill
levels in the face of inevitable staff losses from the DPE.
32. In fishing and forestry. The Mining Division is also planning to proceed along the same lines.
J3. A 11 senUId-r,d   UIU IefIieiCy 1u1I tIIC UIedU S;a.LCS is to b erecteU by interoiI Uo .he coaist JUst outside Uro
Moresby.



12
6.10    As a result of access to resources from the Gas TA project,34 the DPE will be able to
protect itself to a considerable degreep frinn, the. goverrr.nt' s budeatan crnueeze druing th npVt
2-3 years. However, it will be increasingly difficult to preserve it as an "island" of excellence in
anl uniavULauie eZ01J01UL, viIVIIOIIII1vClIL uIIICnl   it uuLaiin a  ulgl lL u a1ICali autllouioy. Thlle PARr
considers the sustainability of the benefits from the project to be likely, but the risk of the industry
going into decline if exploration does not resume is nevertneiess significant. T nis wouid endanger
sustainability, as would the non-implementation of the GTQ project. For these reasons the highly
likely rating of the ICR seems overly optimistic.
Bank Performance
6.11    Bank performance during all stages of the first project is assessed as satisfactory. There
wasO no ratig -proAvedA in the DC'D
tV  O  lA)1 lUtt5F 1) S  V  JL1II  LlA' It.fL .
6.12.   LI Th xis PA   LUI eIUrIs LIUL LIt ICR's N I11r, Uo hiiguly SaULIabt.Loy for Bank pelliormance
under the second Petroleum TA project is not justified for all stages of the project cycle because
(a) the design of the project should have expilctlty adaressea tne socio-economic-3 as well as
technical issues of petroleum development; and (b) the Bank could have done more to influence
GOPNG to adopt a fiscal stance more conducive to promoting exploration, both as part of its
supervision of this project and its overall macroeconomic dialogue36.
6.13    Project supervision was thorough, with regular six-monthly missions by a two-person
Bank team. Yet an annual average of about 10 staff weeks were recorded for the project during its
implementation, which is low compared to Bank-wide averages.37 The exceptionally long
continuity of Bank task manager and his dedication to the success of the project was probably
another key contributory factor to the project's success.
6.14    Board approval in mid-2000 of the Gas TA nroject took _lace before final closure of the
Petroleum TA loan and the transition between projects was handled smoothly without a
disnintive g2nn a had ncruirreld nrinr tn the ieorond PetrlPunm TA nrniprtt
6. I      v eraiinnl Bar.k n,rfrm.nnnr Adur.ng the cond proA Jt is  t.ed as  -''-"-"
Borrower Performance
6.16    Borrower performance during the first project is assessed as satisfactory. There was no
rating provided in the PCR.
34. And the related GOPNG counterpart funds.
35 GOPNG does not feel that this was necessary.
36 The Task Manaeer commented that " Taking into rccnnnt the R2nk'q exnerienee in nrniep.t imnlerenittinn in PNrl
addressing socio-economic aspects of petroleum development in the project design would have made its
implementation far more complicated and prone to failure. The project was, therefore, focused only on the technical
aspects of petroleum development and institutional development of the Department managing such development.
Efficient utilization of revenues from petroleum development, that would address socio-economic issues emerging
frorn such revenue flows, as well as inculcating a fiscal stance more conducive to promoting exploration would require
capacity building of other departments of the government, most notably, Finance, Treasury, Planning, and Provincial
Affairs. The observations of OED while pertinent, w.ould conce- the Count-,, Assistaince Strategy, and not the project
under review."
37. Some supervision time may have been charged to the Gas TA project, but there was probably also a significant
degree of under-recording.



13
6.17   The ICR rating of satisfactory overall borrower performance under the second TA project
appears to be justified, apart from the inordinate delay between appraisal and negotiations, which
was due to GOPNG's internal reorganization and the time necessary for consensus building. The
high degree of ownership by the borrower was undoubtedly a key factor in the overall success of
the project.
6.18   The PAR concurs with the ICR in assessing the implementing agency's performance as
highly sntiefl7.ti,-i, The rhPE got the bect ^iit nf the t nhnail oictan,.c frnm BGS b -
it well and found a way of utilizing the skills and experience of the former expatriate director
a.fter th- h.andover to local r.algreT.I r+.ce +he Cealren- oprtosfo     the
n.-.,  n...~  LU11k&W1%,.L LU 1uV.,aI 1i1cuar,--~1I1I1L. ILL IJ9IL-,.LUU  LIIV UT,JOLp 1IIi,11L b UjJJVaL1UI 1jU1 LU   il
Treasury's budget cuts, obtained the necessary counterpart funds to implement the project
without interruptions. The DPE flagged the need for additionai assisEance in sociai areas and
prepared a clear and timely proposal for a follow-on project, which addresses these needs.
Overall Proiect Acsessment
6=19   The Petroleum Exploration TA Projc-t is assessed as having had a sati.fncroty overall
outcome because it fully met the two most important project objectives, namely producing an
^^^i_6--w ~ M 1'  11  . a            CL...  %J%,t V31rJ""'r  '  VslW VL^ lP SIVII
strategy. It partially met the other two objectives of strengthening the capacity of the government
to UidU out exploratiion blocks, negoti-iae sanisikcory work progritlis, adu iIUHitur oi; comIpani1y
activities and evaluate the potential for commercial gas development.
6.20   This PAR considers that the Petroleum Exploration and Development TA project had a
satisfactory overall outcome because it substantially met all its objectives and project
implementation seems to have been highly successful.
6.21   However, the satisfactory outcome of the second project can be attributed to a
concatenation of circumstances that are not easy to reproduce in other similar projects:
* The Bank and the borrower shared a clear vision of the project's objectives.
* There was a high degree of commitment to the project's goals on the part of the
Petroleum Diviion staff and support frnm. the senior himrPrirmte in the depnart.ment
*    1eU UdU1dcdLU1i LU LthieIVJVL p  ro d11t Ullal  Lo tJhIL V1 Lo.h prLUJLA. lzaIragU1i1v1nt was
exceptional.
* The high quality and .adequate quantity of Bank supervision.
7.     Lessons Learned
7.1    1 he mIain essonsR aire
*  A country that is heavily reliant on revenues from a small number of oiifields with short
production lives cannot afford to let the pace of new exploration slacken. GOPNG
38 C .CPNr. rnmmented- that thpcp arp m'rrnprnnnnmirlpesnne nnt nerpcsrily lesonne fnr the nmipect buot for the
Departments of Treasury and National Planning.



14
became complacent after the rapid pace of oilfield development in the early 1990s and
nnui faces diffrillt nprdrl of ronnom, aC-jutment brought on bI, A  i,n,ng o-i revenues
due to the failure to ensure that new fields were brought on stream to compensate for
*  A petroleum department with a predominantly technical staff is not well suited to deal
with the complex socio-economic issues of equity in the utilization of resource rents, and
with the traditional power structures that have a major influence over sharing of these
rents.
*  Rents from natural resource extraction are difficult to manage, give rise to complex issues
of distribution and equity within societies, are often poorly used to finance non-
productive activities, and create dependency. The time/breathing space obtained from
their extraction is rarely sufficient to diversify the economy.
*  The benefits from improved natural resource management at the sectoral level are lost if
there 'a 111 ave...iiIanc,e,. n iP , LIIt pIUroI- iii iiiaiiariiir thV growthl Ut Lih oI
and gas industry has not led to sustained economic benefits to the country because of the
macroecono-uiIIc            OIsthanagerlnu o e oi; revenues. To avoid another iosE decade," the
encouragement of additional exploration to sustain declining oil production can only be
justified if the governance issue is addressed in tandem.



15                                         Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheets
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDrr 1279-PNG)
Key PoJject Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal         Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Totai project costs                               5.6              n.a. -
Loan amount                                       3.0               3.0
Cofinancing                                       2.0               1.7                    85
Date physical components completed           12/31/86             12/31/88                133
Economic rate of retum                            n.a.              n.a.
Institutional pejomiance                          n.a.           Q0lioIc.or;           S,c:ory
The Borrower did not provide local costs. Total foreign costs were US$ 4.6 million
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (SDR millions)
FY83        FY84       FY85        FYr6       FY87        FY88       FY89
Appraisal estimate         1.1        1.9         2.7
(US$M)
Actual i(US$M)            0.2         1.5        2.2         2.4         2.5        2.7         2.7
Actual -- % of appraisa!  18.2       78.9        81.5       88.9        92.6        99.2        100
Date of final disbursement: 12/30/88
Original                       Actual
Negotiations                                                                       nr5/0nnIo
Signing                                                                            07/01/82
Effectiveness                                        08/00/82                      04/08/83
Ciosing date                                         12/31/87                      06/30/88
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actuai
Preparation to Appraisal                         7.0
Appraisal                                        22.5
Negotiations through Board Approval              4.5
Supervision                                      53.4
Complj:onU6.6
Total                                            94.0



Annexa  A
Date        No. of  Staff days  Specializations  Perforrnance  Rating  Types of
(,,,oyearJ    peJ,oSo                      - .n flv .'d repree ; ' /f Eau,,g  tren d   tIs
Identification
Preparatfon
Preappraisal       2/81         2
Appraisal          2/82         2                                    2           2
Negotiation
Board approval
Sianina
Effective
Supervision        2/84         3                                    1           1
9/84         4                                    1           1
5/85         3                                    1           1
3/86         2                                    .           1
8/86         2                                    1           1
7/87         2                                    2           1
11101         2                                    2          2
10/88         1                                    2          2
Completion
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN
3670-PNG)
Kev Proiect Data (amnunts in US$ million)
Appraisal         Actual or          Actuail as % of
estimate      current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                             12.15'            12.60                 104
Loan amount                                      11.0             11.0                  100
Cofinancing                                       --               --                    --
Cancellation                                     --
Date physical components completed              12/99             6/00
Economic rate of return                          n.a               n.a
institutional performance
Project Dates
Oriqinal                      Actual
Initiating memorandum                                 11/91                         11/91
Negotiations                                          10/92                         10/93
Leters of Deveiopmenti                                 n.a                           n.a
Board approval                                        12/92                         12/93
Signing                                                2/93                         7/94
Effectiveness                                          6/93                         9/94
Closing date                                          12/99                         9/OCI
St2ff Tnnuit1 (vPff weeks)
Actua/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                     USSP'0001
Identification/preappraisal                      8.3                             31.00
Appraisal/negotiation                            20.3                            71.75
Supervision                                      45.7                            343.50
Other                                            13.0                            49.77
TI otal                                          87.3                            496.02



17                                      Annex A
Mission Data
DatA        No. of   Sneclalzantlnns      Parforrmnae ratina      Tiwes of
(month/year).  persons    represented    Imp. Progress Dev. Objctive  problems
Identification/     11/91         2         A, B
Preparation
Appraisal            11/91        2         A, B
12/92   1  A
10/93         2        A, C, D
12/93         1        A
05/94         2        A, C
07/94         1        A
09/94
Supervision          02/95        1         A                 HS            HS
12'.5                  A k                HS            HS
12/96         2        A, E               HS           HS
08/97         2        A, E               HS            HS
03/98         2        A. E               HS            HS
12/98         2        A, E               HS            HS
06/99         2        A, E               HS            HS
11/99         2        A, E               HS            HS
-71r 2r                A, E               , ,,
Completion          01/01         2         A, E              HS            HS
A=Hydrocarbon Specialist. B=Reservoir Enaineer: C=Codntrv Ecbnomist: D-Lawver. E=Petroleum Economist
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                        LnZCr no.      -Amount           Board date
(US$ million)
Gas Development & Utilization TA'Prdject       Ln._7019-PNG  7.0              6/1/2000






19                           Annex B
Annex B. Comments from the Borrower
29 May 2002
Dear Andres,
Thank you for your email. I have reviewed the draft PPAR of the subJect pro;ects and I
have placed my comments in red adjacent to the relevant sections.
However, some overall points need to be made. The project was fundamentally
designeda to protec the State's interaessn tkh ecnomic expolaio4n of its petro'e m
WWc;& I W~ & VI WJL~,%I LI I%- W%JL~L .V III tUlI ~,t III Li I1U.W%I..AJI .I II%,AJ~ILAIJ I WI I LO F1JLI %11I~ UsII
resources. Fundamental aspects of this are the management of the sector through core
functins suc as            ------- coicinadpeevton; ensuir,ng thatI UAPIUkration
programmes are properly conceived; monitoring of oil company operations in both
exploration and development; and the management of operational costs and production
receipts.
It was never the thrust nor intent of the Petroleum Exploration TA project nor the
Petroleum Exploration and Development TA Project to delve into the consequential
matters of the impact of rescue revenues and their management or mismanagement.
The sector functions were aggregated into the Petroleum Division in 1993, but hitherto
they were rather disseminated. The Petroleum Branch managed licensing and technical
functions only up until then. Thereafter, the integrated Petroleum Division managed all
functions assocniated with the sec-tor The additinns were the PO!liY Branch and the Go-
ordination Branch (essentially, a liaison group going between project sites and
Ia rnd,-lAnrora nr,r h,re!t Drr/inrnI-a I f,arnmanfr.X
ITe sectuor hias geInIeIra c ire sUIIlb Um Iofmony bU )y wy vI direct IUVWincome taxatlOn
revenue for the GoPNG and has help buoy up the GDP and foreign exchange earnings
of the country after the crippling shutdown of the Panguna mine on Bougainviiie. The
GoPNG, however, receives money from many sectors and variously spends it wisely or
otherwise. i am not sure that we can control the GoPNG's expenditure out ot the
State's consolidated revenue from the Dept. of Petroleum and Energy.
Equally, landowner aims and ambitions do not necessarily accord with those of the
GoPNG or international agencies. The GoPNG has sought to devolve a significant
proportion of petroleum benefits to land-ownina communities that are host to petroleum
development operations. There are steps in place to organise the benefits in a better
manner: these are contained within the Oil and Gas Act as nassed in 1997 and
amended in 2001. However, the communities do have a thirst for cash that cannot be
innnro,1 hi it thero are thgp nrobems assnciiated wAlth sn-c.ailer Ian4neArnar Ieadors
purloining such monies for their own aggrandisement. Added to this has been the
inroduct.ion ofI political favour andu persuasion that 1hlas tLurneduI some IIandowner leaduers
into would-be parliamentarians, and caused some parliamentarians and Ministers to act
in partiai manner towards certain landowner leaders. Nevertheiess, we note that much
of this behaviour is representative of PNG tribal society with its frequent assent to so-
called "big-man ipolitics and neglect of the community.



/A of LtIIs is very iar irorm he core obJJectves of the proJeci, which aimedu to Udeve,Uop
know-how in the petroleum industry, not the social welfare business.
I would suggest that we remember the essential core functions of Government in
administering its petroleum resources as stated above. these have been greatly assisted
by the projects and the proof is in the capabilities of the cadre of National officers who
work diligently in the Department of Petroleum and Energy.
Best regards,
Mick Mr.Walter
Adviser
Dept. of Petroleum and Energy
Government of Papua New Guinea



