Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3670-PNG
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Petroleum Exploration and Development
                       Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                 THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 14, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3670 PNG
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1994, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA
NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the term "Petroleum Division" means the Petroleum Division
established within the Borrower's Department of Mining and Petroleum.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in kina a special deposit account in Bank of Papua New Guinea on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
Page  3
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
            of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
            rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
            of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
            Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
            Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
            January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through its Department of Mining and
Petroleum with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, environmental, petroleum
exploration, and planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ and, thereafter maintain,
qualified staff in adequate numbers for the Petroleum Division, and shall
employ about nine experts for such Division.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than December 31, 1994, commence the carrying out of
the studies included in Part B.1 of the Project and the compilation of
Page  4
safety standards referred to in Part B.2 of the Project, under terms of
reference which shall have been approved by the Bank;
      (b)   upon completion of the studies and the compilation, furnish the
compilation and the recommendations of the studies to the Bank for comments;
and
      (c)   upon receipt of the Bank's comments, promptly prepare and
furnish to the Bank for its comments an action plan for the implementation
and monitoring of the safety standards, and, thereafter, promptly carry out
such action plan taking into account the comments of the Bank.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  5
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Department of Finance and Planning
            Vulupindi Haus
            Post Office Wards Strip
            Waigani, N.C.D.
            Papua New Guinea
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  TREASURER                 NE 22218
                  Boroko
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                        By /s/ Kepas I. Watangia (Ambassador)
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  6
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Equipment                3,900,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Training                   500,000        100%
(3)   Consultants'             5,200,000        100%
      services
(4)   Unallocated              1,400,000
      TOTAL                   11,000,000
                              ==========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $400,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1993.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods below $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are (i) to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity for comprehensive management of petroleum exploration and
development, and the Borrower's framework of fiscal, regulatory and
ownership policies; (ii) to upgrade the Borrower's capacity to gather,
process, and analyze petroleum exploration and development data; (iii) to
formulate standards for safe and efficient storage, handling, and
transportation of petroleum products; and (iv) to evaluate the potential for
commercial development of natural gas reserves for liquefied natural gas
export.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  7
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening
    Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower's Department of Mining
and Petroleum for technical management of petroleum exploration and
development, and of on-the-job training for its staff.
Part B:   Studies and Promotion
1.  Carrying out of (i) a planning study for the establishment of a
petroleum refinery, and (ii) a feasibility study for the export of liquefied
natural gas, and, if warranted by the findings and recommendations of such
study, organization of international seminars to promote the export of
liquefied natural gas.
2.  Compilation of standards for safe handling, storage, and transportation
of petroleum products.
Part C:   Equipment and Facilities
    Acquisition of a computer system, including related software, and
acquisition of laboratory equipment, to enhance the capabilities of the
Department of Mining and Petroleum in monitoring and analyzing petroleum
exploration and development activities.
Part D:   Training
1.  Provision of training at foreign universities and institutes in
petroleum management and technology and provision of internships with
petroleum operating companies for about nine staff of the Petroleum Division
of the Department of Mining and Petroleum.
2.  Training of about six staff of the Department of Mining and Petroleum
as laboratory technicians.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                        Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1999                                  205,000
December 15, 1999                              215,000
June 15, 2000                                  220,000
December 15, 2000                              230,000
June 15, 2001                                  240,000
December 15, 2001                              245,000
June 15, 2002                                  255,000
December 15, 2002                              265,000
June 15, 2003                                  275,000
December 15, 2003                              285,000
June 15, 2004                                  295,000
December 15, 2004                              305,000
June 15, 2005                                  320,000
December 15, 2005                              330,000
June 15, 2006                                  345,000
December 15, 2006                              355,000
June 15, 2007                                  370,000
December 15, 2007                              380,000
June 15, 2008                                  395,000
December 15, 2008                              410,000
June 15, 2009                                  425,000
December 15, 2009                              440,000
June 15, 2010                                  460,000
December 15, 2010                              475,000
June 15, 2011                                  495,000
Page  8
December 15, 2011                              510,000
June 15, 2012                                  530,000
December 15, 2012                              550,000
June 15, 2013                                  570,000
December 15, 2013                              605,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in        Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
Page  9
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purpose of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed
with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Papua New Guinea may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Items or groups of items of computers and laboratory equipment,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $470,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Page  10
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts  or to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Page  11
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
