CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1396 HO
Loan Agreement
(Third Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL PORTUARIA
Dated April 22, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA NACIONAL PORTUARIA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Honduras and the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to lend to the Republic of
Honduras a credit (hereinafter called the Credit) in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Honduras and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to lend
to the Republic of Honduras a loan (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan) in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, to
assist in the financing of the Project;


﻿-2-
(C) the Republic of Honduras will make available the
proceeds of such credit and loan to the Borrower, for purposes of
carrying out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(D) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(E) the Bank and the Borrower intend that the proceeds of
the credit be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
this Agreement are made; and
(F) the Bank and the Borrower intend that the proceeds
of this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro
rata on the basis of 7:5 ratio;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Guneral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions):
Section 2.01. (11) is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
"11. The term "Project" means the project or projects
or program or programs for which the Loan is granted, as
described in the Loan Agreement and as the description
thereof shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Guarantor, the Bank, the Association, and the
Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-4-
(a) "bonds" means any certificates or other evidences
of debt issued by the Borrower for the purpose of assieting
in the financing of the Borrower 's investments;
(b)   "Banco Central" means Banco Central de La Repdblica
de Honduras;
(c)   "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31; and
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement or
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Intermediate Term
Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one half per cent (8.50%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
substantially in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, financial and port practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the detailed
engineering and supervision of construction under Parts A and B
of the Project, and in the carrying out of Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering and port consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not enter into a contract for the civil works
under Part B of the Project until it has entered into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the sugar companies
which will utilize the San Lorenzo port facilities, regarding a
minimum tonnage of exports of sugar and molasses.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 9 -
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur
ii any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its
business under competent and experienced management and carry
on its operations in accordance with appropriate financial,
engineering and port practices and with the assistance of
adequate, competent and experienced staff.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
installations, equipment and other property, and from time to
time make all necessary renewals thereof and repairs thereto,
in accordance with appropriate engineering and port practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the prior
consent of the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of any of its
assets, except in the ordinary course of its business.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of the preceding paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall (i)
keep separate accounts in respect of each of its ports and in
respect of each of its major port development projects; and (ii)
segregate within such accounts port expenses and investments from
non-port expenses and investments.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified cGpies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably


﻿- 12 -
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt, except as otherwise disclosed in writing to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the


﻿- 13 -
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, no later than October 1,
1977, and at least once every three years thereafter, revalue its
assets (including land) in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, no later than October 1,
1977, put into operation a cost accounting system satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall establish and maintain, or take all necessary
steps to establish and maintain, such charges for the provision of
its port services and port facilities as shall be necessary to
provide the Borrower with revenue sufficient to cover all operating
and administrative expenses and charges related to port operations,
including taxes and levies, if any, adequate maintenance and
depreciation, and yield a rate of return on the average value of
its total net fixed port assets in operation of not less than
eight per cent (8%) per annum.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall retain, solely for the purpose of investment in port
services and port facilities, such portion of its net operating
income for each fiscal year as shall represent at least eight per
cent (8%) of the average of the value of net fixed port assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that year.


﻿- 14 -
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
for each fiscal year by relating net operating
income for that year to the average of the value of
net fixed port assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means the gross
operating revenues from the provision of port
services and port facilities, less all operating,
administrative and overhead expenses and charges
related to port operations, including adequate
maintenance, depreciation and taxes (if any), but
before deduction of interest and other charges on
debt;
(iii) the term "value of net fixed port assets in
operation" means the value of gross fixed port
assets in operation as revalued from time to time
based on appropriate valuation methods approved by
the Bank, less accumulated depreciation; and
(iv) for the purposes of this Article, the terms "port
services", "port facilities", "port operations",
and "port assets" mean all services, facilities,
operations and assets of the Borrower that are
related to shipping and the transfer of cargo
between ship and shore.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
ensure that the Borrower's operations which are unrelated to the
furnishing of port services shall be conducted in such a manner
that the gross revenues from such operations shall be sufficient
to pay for all expenses of such operations, including: (a)
operating, administrative and overhead expenses and charges,
including adequate maintenance, depreciation and taxes (if any);
and (b) interest and other charges on debt.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, limit its
capital expenditures, other than those included in the Project
or in other projects financed by the Bank, to a maximum in the
aggregate of the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000) during each fiscal year.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall: (a) no later than July 1,
1978, put into effect, and continue to employ thereafter, a
tariff structure which shall be reasonably related to the
Borrower's costs of providing services and facilities related to
port operations; and
(b) advise the Bank prior to putting into effect any change
in the levels of rates charged for the provision of port services
and port facilities.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.10. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree.
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net cash
generation from operations for the fiscal year immediately
preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not
less than 1.75 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the debt to be
incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower,
including debt for the service of which the
Borrower is responsible, maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or, in the case of a guarantee of debt, on the
date of execution and delivery of the contract
providing for such guarantee;
(iii) the term "net cash generation from operations"
means gross revenues from all sources, adjusted
to take account of the level of charges of the


﻿- 17 -
Borrower in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during
the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating,
administrative and overhead expenses including
adequate maintenance and taxes (if any), but before
deduction of depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of, and interest
and other charges on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.11. (a) The terms and conditions of any bonds
issued by the Borrower for the purposes of assisting in financing
the Borrower's investments, including the Project, shall be


﻿- 18 -
established by prior agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
and shall be subject to the approval of Banco Central in
accordance with the laws of the Guarantor.
(b) In the event that the Borrower shall issue bonds in
accordance with paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall, during
each fiscal year following the year in which such bonds are first
issued, set aside from its annual cash surplus an amount
sufficient to accumulate a fund for the repayment of any such
bonds upon maturity.
(c) For purposes of this Section "annual cash surplus"
means annual net operating income, as that term is defined in
Section 5.06 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, less annual debt service
requirements, as that term is defined in Section 5.10 (b) (iv)
of this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Decree No. 40 of the Guarantor, published on December 1,
1965, establishing the Borrower, shall have been amended,
suspended or abrogated so as to affect materially and adversely
the carrying out or operation of the Project or the financial
position of the Borrower; and
(b) The Borrower shall have failed to make any payments due
and payable to holders of bonds in violation of the terms thereof.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and of the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The Borrower undertakes towards the
International Development Association, and the Bank hereby accepts
for the Association, mutatis mutandis, the obligations it is
hereunder undertaking towards the Bank pursuant to Articles III,
IV and V of this Agreement, and agree that such obligations
towards the Association, notwithstanding the earlier termination
of this Agreement, shall 'only terminate on a date 20 years after
the date of this Agreement or on the date the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.03. The date July 21, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresa Nacional Portuaria
Apartado Postal 18
Puerto Cortes
Honduras
Cable address:                       Telex:
EMPORTUARIA                          ENAPORTO HT5402
Puerto Cortes


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL PORTUARIA
By Is! Roberto Lazarus
Authorized Representative


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
and of the Intermediate
Term Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  5,890,000         49%
(2) Equipment                    2,750,000         100% of foreign
expenditures,
or 80% of the
ex-factory price
of locally
manufactured
equipment
(3) Consulting                     500,000         60%
services and
technical
assistance
(4) Unallocated                  2,860,000
TOTAL                 12,000,000
The proceeds of this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
shall be disbursed pro rata on the basis of a 7:5 ratio.


﻿- 24 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any co untry
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan or the Interest Subsidy Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of paymentq for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of such Loans decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except
as the Borrower, the Association, the Bank, and ENP shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have
been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the
loan accounts for the Loan or the Intermediate Term Loan except
under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of this


﻿- 25 -
Loan Agreement and Section 1.01 of the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the Intermediate Term Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the said Loans then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association and the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement or in the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the said Loans and the


﻿- 26 -
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement and
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, by notice to the Guarantor
and the Borrower, cancel such amount of the said Loans as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the said Loans.


﻿- 27 -
Schedule 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Puerto Castilla
(1) Construction of: (a) a wharf about 450 meters
long with alongside depth of 10.5 meters below
mean low water springs; (b) one transit shed with
an area of about 3,000 square meters; (c) one
warehouse with an area of about 3,000 square
meters; (d) two open-sided lumber sheds with an
area of about 6,000 square meters; (e) an office
building with an area of about 800 square meters;
(f) a maintenance building with an area of about
560 square meters; (g) one palm oil storage tank
with a 2,500-ton capacity; (h) one petroleum
storage tank with a 2,000-ton capacity; and (i)
miscellaneous structures such as guard houses,
shelters, pumphouses, gates and fences.
(2)  Site development, including grading, drai4nage,
roadway and utility services.
(3) Acquisition and utilization of (a) about 14
forklifts and about 500 wooden pallets for handling
'general cargo; (b) 4 forklifts, 3 tractors and 6


﻿- 28 -
flatbed trailers for handling lumber; (c) 3
front-end loaders, 5 dump trucks and one portable
loader with a 250 ton-per-hour capacity for
handling woodchips; and (d) one used 1200 HP
tugboat for berthing operations and one launch
for general harbor duties.
Part B:   San Lorenzo
(1) Extension of the pier to provide an additional
berth about 145 meters long including necessary
dredging alongside the berth, construction of one
sugar storage shed (about 76 meters x 31 meters)
and 2 molasses tanks with a 3,800 ton capacity
each.
(2) Acquisition and utilization of (a) one 15-ton
mobile crane, five 5-ton forklifts, 4 tractors,
10 flatbed trailers and about 500 pallets, for
handling lumber and general cargo; (b) two 15-
ton mobile cranes, two 2.5 cubic meters front
end loaders, 2 tractors, 5 flatbed trailers
and 20 steel buckets, for handling sugar; (c)
pumping equipment with a 150-ton-per-hour
capacity, for handling molasses; and (d) 6 light
buoys for aiding navigation.


﻿- 29 -
Part C.   Technical Assistance
(1) A study to determine the optimal depth of the
access channel for San Lorenzo.
(2) Preparation of a manual detailing the procedures
and documentation for container operations.
(3) Training of the Borrower's staff in the management
and operation of the container berth and
consolidation depot at Puerto Cortes.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1979.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1982
through   December 15, 1996                  225,000
On June 15, 1997                                  250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                     Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                        1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                        2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                        4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                  6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                  7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                        8.50%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A
of the Guidelines.
3.   The Borrower shall not invite bids for the civil works
under Part A of the Project until responsive bids have been
received by the Guarantor for the construction of the roads
between San Esteban, Corocito and Puerto Castilla.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   The civil works included in Part B of the Project may
be carried out, under a contract satisfactory to the Bank, by
the contractor who is carrying out the works at San Lorenzo
financed under the Loan Agreement (Second Port Project) dated


﻿- 33 -
June 25, 1971, between the Bank and the Borrower. In the event
that the Borrower is unable to enter into a satisfactory
contract with such contractor, the civil works included in
Part B of the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph A (1) of this Schedule.
2.   The tugboat included in Part A (3) (d) of the Project may
be procured through negotiations with suppliers.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Honduras may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 34 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured
in Honduras if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added
in Honduras equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Honduras.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 35 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of


﻿- 36 -
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and for equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines


﻿- 37 -
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


