FILE COPY
Report No. 1300-TU
Appraisal of a Second Loan to Deviet Yatirim
Bankasi - DFC Project Turkey
December 10, 1976
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
May 1974 to September 1974
US $1.00                                            TL 13.50
TL 1.00                                            US $0.074
M,arch 1976 to September 1976
US $1.00                                            TL 16.00
TL 1.00                                            US $0.063
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DYB                          Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
SEEs                         State Economic Enterprises
SPO                          State Planning Organization
HCB                          High Control Board
OECD                         Organiation for Economic Cooperation
and Development
US-AID                       United States Agency for International
Development
IFF                          Internal Financing Fund
DFCs                         Development Finance Companies
EEC                          European Economic Community
FRR                          Financial Rate of Return
ERR                          Economic Rate of Return
LIBOR                        London Interbank Offering Rate
FISCAL YEARS
Government                   March 1 to February 28
DYB                          January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND LOAN TO DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI - DFC PROJECT
TURKEY
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY .............* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *.  i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION. .                            .........                          1
II.   THE STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES.......                                       1
The Economic Environment.                                            1
The System of State Economic Enterprises                             2
Performance of State Economic Enterprises                            3
Conclusions.                                                         4
III.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS.......                                            5
Policies.. .                                                         5
Organization........                                                 5
Resources                       ......6
Interest Rates               ... ..           ..........             7
Lending Procedures                   ...... 8
IV.   OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE              ......      .....        11
Characteristics of Operations.                                      11
Economic Impact of Bank Financed Sub-Projects                       13
Financial Performance .15
Audit and Accounts ..17
V. PROSPECTS .18
Economic Forecast                  ...... 18
Projected Operations                 ......                         18
VI.    PROPOSED LOAN .........................................21
Performance Under First Bank Loan   .               .21
Objectives and Criteria of Proposed Loan  .             .21
Justification   ..23
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS    ..23
This report was prepared by Messrs. Storch, Takahashi, and Wachs on the
basis of their two-week mission in July, 1976.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World lank authori2ation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
BASIC DATA
ANNEXES
1. Brief Review of Industrial Sector
2. Income and Profitability of Major Industrial SEEs, 1972-1974
3. Financial Position of Major Industrial SEEs, as of December 1974
4. Key-Figures of Major Industrial SEEs, 1971-1975
5. Summary of DYB's Statutes and Regulations
6. Organization Chart
7. Statements of Resources as of December 31, 1975
8. Approvals, Commitments and Disbursement of Term Loans, 1970-1975
9. Sectoral Distribution of Term Loan Approvals, 1973-1975
10. Breakdown of DYB Loans by SEEs as of December 31, 1975
11. Maturity of Term Loans Approved, 1973-1975
12. Size Distribution of Term Loans Approved, 1973-1975
13. Geographical Distribution of Term Loan Approvals, 1973-1975
14. Sub-Project Financing Applications Approved by the Bank under
Loan 1024-TU
15. Income Statement, 1973-1975
16. Balance Sheets, Year-end 1973-1975
17. Source and Application of Funds, 1973-1975
18. Financial Indicators, 1973-1975
19. Analysis of Arrears in Excess of Three Months, 1974-1975
20. Projected Operations and Assumptions, 1976-1979
21. Projected Income Statement, 1976-1979
22. Projected Balance Sheets, 1976-1979
23. Projected Source and Application of Funds, 1976-1979
24. Projected Pipeline
25. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND LOAN TO DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI - DFC PROJECT
Summary
i.      - The Turkish Government created Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) in 1964
for the purpose of financing public sector industry. The first Bank loan to
DYB ($40 million) was made in 1974, to be passed on as sub-loans to State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs). DYB has submitted and the Bank approved 10 sub-
projects having the following characteristics: average total investment cost
of $14 million, average Bank financed sub-loan of $3.8 million, and weighted
average financial and economic rates of return of 25% and 29% respectively.
Within 24 months from the date of signature, 95% of the first loan was com-
mitted; disbursements are generally on schedule. The Government and DYB have
now requested a second loan, to be used for the same purposes.
ii.       The organization, control, and composition of SEEs in Turkey has
not significantly changed since the previous appraisal of DYB. Sales revenues
of all SEEs more than doubled between 1973 and 1975 (from TL 45.4 billion to
TL 96.3 billion). However, the increase in production costs was even greater,
so that total SEEs net profit before taxes in 1973 of TL 400 million turned
to an estimated loss of TL 2.9 billion in 1975. For operational SEEs, invest-
ment rose from TL 13.7 billion in 1973 to TL 34.3 billion in 1975. To fill
the gap in investment capital and shortfall in working capital, the SEEs had
to rely heavily on transfers from the general budget, borrowings from social
security and pension funds, and extraordinary recourse to the Central Bank.
This increased dependency on Government financing was contrary to the Third
Five Year Plan (1973-1977) which, although it envisaged relatively capital-
intensive investment by SEEs, also projected a 33% increase in the surpluses
of SEEs. The contrary has happened: instead of financing their own invest-
ments and yielding profits which contribute to national savings, the SEEs
have become a drain on the Government's financial resources.
iii.      The underlying reason for the deficiencies in economic performance
lies with the social objectives imposed on SEEs which often take precedence
over profitability. The instrument of price controls is, in most cases, the
biggest single impediment to adequate financial returns, causing sales rev-
enues to lag behind the inflationary rise in production costs. There are
also the usual hinderances which public sector industry has with political
pressures, monopolistic practices, and private sector competition for staff.
The Third Plan recognized the faults of the existing SEE system and outlined
reforms to improve productivity and profitability. The Government subsequently
proposed SEE reform legislation to Parliament, but so far it has not been
passed. How to administer SEEs is a key issue between Turkey's political
parties, and the initial steps for reform must be taken in the political
arena.
iv.       The Bank's first loan to DYB was an experiment to see if results
could be achieved by working within the SEE system, since fundamental changes



- ii -
would require legislation in a form and at a time which cannot be determined
by the Bank. The loan was restricted for use in financing projects in manu-
facturing and processing industries, and to a limited extent in non-fuel
mining. The rationale for this approach was to attempt to extend institution
building activities, through DYB, to those projects and SEEs with which the
Bank would otherwise have no relationship. The performance of 11 out of the
14 SEEs which fit the sector eligiblity criteria of the Bank loan was gen-
erally profitable between 1973 and 1975. The findings indicate that progress
has been made in strengthening DYB. SEEs often consult with it when planning
their new projects. When requests for financing are presented to DYB, it can
and does reject unsuitable projects, delay them when additional preparation
work is needed, or modify their financial plans when necessary.
v.        From 1973 to 1975 DYB's total assets doubled.  Loan portfolio in-
creased from TL 15,934 million to TL 32,277 million, while long-term borrow-
ings rose at a slightly higher rate. Equity did not keep pace with the in-
crease in operations; the term debt/equity ratio rose from 4.6:1 in 1973 to
7.8:1 in 1975. Since DYB is permitted by law to issue bonds without being
restricted by the amount of its capital, a debt/equity covenant could not be
incorporated in the first Bank loan; instead, agreement was reached on a debt
service coverage ratio, to be a minimum of 1.3:1, and DYB has stayed well
above this minimum. DYB's overall yield spread on funds employed has in-
creased from 1.5% to 2.0% between 1973 and 1975. Over the same period, net
income before taxes increased from 23% of equity to 38%. DYB can be con-
sidered creditworthy because of the repayment record established by its SEE
borrowers and because DYB's profitability, equity base, financial position,
and management are satisfactory.
vi.       To further strengthen DYB institutionally, the Government, DYB and
the Bank reached agreement on the following: employment of additional staff
needed for appraisal and supervision, participation of DYB in the Government
deliberation process before final decisions are made about SEEs investments,
expansion of the scope of DYB's appraisal work, inclusion of individual proj-
ect entities in the contract signed between DYB and the parent SEE, and super-
vision of all projects after they are operational. To improve DYB's financial
position and capability to borrow in the international market, agreements were
reached on capital increases for DYE and improvement in the presentation of
accounts.
vii.      The proposed second loan (of $70 million) would cover about 6% of
DYB's projected commitments in the 1977-1978 period. Sub-projects would be
subject to the same general eligibility criteria as applied in the first loan,
except that the maximum sub-loan limit would be raised from $6 to $9 million
in view of inflation; also, there would be a free limit of $2 million. Given
DYB's complete dependence on the Ministry of Finance for resources, the Govern-
ment has agreed to fulfill DYB's additional needs for funds when it finances
sub-projects approved by the Bank. DYB's interest rate on Bank financed
sub-projects would be 12.5%, subject to review, and the foreign exchange risk
would continue to be borne by sub-borrowers. The debt service coverage ratio
of 1.3 would continue to apply.



- iii -
viii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of $70 million to Devlet Yatirim Bankasi, with the
Guaranty of the Republic of Turkey, to be relent to selected SEE sub-borrowers.
An appropriate term for the loan is seventeen years, including up to three
years of grace, with an adjustable composite amortization scheme.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Turkish Government created Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) in
1964 for the purpose of financing public sector industry. The Bank's initial
relationship with DYB was formed in 1973 because of the Antalya Forest Utiliza-
tion Project, in which DYB was made an intermediary for transferring part of
Bank loan proceeds. Subsequently, the Government asked the Bank for a direct
loan to DYB to assist in financing projects proposed by State Economic Enter-
prises (SEEs), Turkey's public sector companies. The Bank's first loan to
DYB, of $40 million, was signed on June 28, 1974 and has now been fully com-
mitted. The appraisal mission for the proposed second loan visited Turkey
in July of 1976 and negotiations were held in November. The second loan, of $70
million, would cover about 6% of DYB's commitments over the 1977-1978 period
(this percentage is small, because DYB is an institution with over $2 billion
in assets and has a large volume of annual lending activities). DYB is the
primary source of term loans for the development projects of SEEs. Strengthen-
ing DYE's role in appraising and supervising projects, in order to increase
the efficiency and profitability of SEEs, merits continuing Bank support in
view of DYB's performance under the first loan (para 6.01).
II. STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
The Economic Environment
2.01      The most recent report on the economy of Turkey, "Country Economic
Memorandum", was distributed to the Board November 2, 1976. From 1973 to 1975
Turkey's annual rate of GNP growth averaged 7%, putting it in the top rank of
the larger non-oil producing countries in the world. The biggest single cause
of the economy's dynamic performance was agriculture, which experienced bumper
crops in 1974 and 1975 due to excellent weather conditions. In industry and
manufacturing specifically, the respective rates of growth for 1973-1975
averaged 10.1% and 9.9% per annum. Growth rates of different industrial
sectors varied considerably: the energy sector accelerated, reaching an
estimated growth in value-added of 17% in 1975; mining peaked at 22% in 1974,
then declined; and manufacturing dropped from about 14% in 1973 to 8% in 1975.
A brief review of the industrial sector is set forth in Annex 1.
2.02      Like many other countries, Turkey experienced a rather high rate of
inflation during this period, but it is getting more control over the problem
with the GDP deflator declining from 27% in 1974 to 16% in 1975. Primarily
due to the sharp decrease in foreign demand for emigrating workers, total
unemployment and underemployment were estimated to have reached 13% in 1975.
The major weakness in Turkey's recent economic performance has been the
balance of payments wich started to deteriorate in 1974 after substantial
improvement in the previous three years. By 1975 the current account deficit
had reached $1.8 billion as a result of the slow-down in the growth of exports
and remittances, a sharp increase in import volume and an unprecedented rise
in import prices generally.



- 2-
The System of State Economic Enterprises
2.03      The organization and control of SEEs has not changed since the
previous DYB appraisal. To summarize how the system works, SEEs are the
enterprises which have more than one half of their capital owned by the Gov-
ernment. There are over 100 such companies, but the preponderant majority of
their assets are held by the 35 biggest ones. Those SEEs which are 100%
Government owned are entitled to create separate legal entities called Estab-
lishments which are, in effect, independent branch operations having one or
several factories, as determined by the nature of the industry and geographi-
cal location. Every SEE, along with its Establishments and subsidiaries, is
under the control of its related Ministry. The Board of Directors of each
SEE is usually composed of three members of the SEEs top management plus two
members appointed by the Council of Ministers, one drawn from the related
Ministry and one from the Ministry of Finance. Supervision of SEEs opera-
tions is the general responsibility of the related Ministry and the specific
responsibility of the High Control Board, an auditing organization which
reports directly to Parliament (see para 4.17).
2.04      The Government provides SEEs with the credit and capital needed to
sustain operations and to make new investments. This is done in accordance
with the Five Year Plan and the annual programs for public sector industry.
The complicated administrative procedures can be described briefly as fol-
lows:  the SEEs present their financial requirements for new and on-going
projects to the State Planning Organization (SPO) in July of each year; the
SPO consults the Planning Council, composed of various Government agencies;
and by the end of the year the Council of Ministers approves the annual in-
vestment program (capital for new projects) and the annual financial program
(working capital and capital to complete projects under construction). The
SEEs are bound by the financial ceilings granted to them and must resort to
special procedures when changes are required.
2.05      In following the principles of a mixed economy, the Government has
established various social and economic policy objectives for SEEs which have
varied in priority according to the planning period; some examples are import
substitution, income redistribution, employment creation, and growth of
underdeveloped regions. Many studies have been done on the impact of these
policies, but they have not been all encompassing or conclusive in their
findings (several are currently being completed by the SPO in view of in-
creased consciousness about income and regional disparities). Turkey's
extensive system of industrial subsidies, incentives and controls greatly
complicate the task of evaluating the performance of SEEs, and of relating
this performance to the large volume of public investment in SEEs.



-3-
Performance of State Economic Enterprises
2.06      Sales revenues of all SEEs more than doubled between 1973 and 1975
(from TL 45.4 billion to TL 96.3 billion). However, the increase in produc-
tion costs was even greater, so that total SEEs net profit before taxes in
1973 of TL 400 million turned to an estimated loss of TL 2.9 billion in 1975.
SEEs employment over the same period only rose from 426,000 to 474,000, a
slow-down in the previous rate of increase. Given the twofold expansion in
production of goods and services, obviously the output per employee has great-
ly increased, reflecting the heavy investment in capital goods of recent
years. For operational SEEs, investment rose from TL 13.7 billion in 1973 to
TL 34.3 billion in 1975 (according to a sample of over 100 public sector proj-
ects currently under implementation, investment costs rose by over 80% between
1971 and 1975). The investment-savings gap consequently increased sharply to
TL 28.5 billion in 1975. To fill the gap in investment capital and the short-
fall in working capital, the SEEs had to rely heavily on transfers from the
general budget, borrowings from social security and pension funds, and extra-
ordinary recourse to the Central Bank. 1/ In the years prior to 1974, the
SEEs had not needed to resort to the Central Bank for investment or working
capital. This increased dependency on Government financing was contrary to
the Third Five Year Plan (1973-1977) which, although it envisaged relatively
capital-intensive investment by SEEs, also projected a 33% annual increase
in the surpluses of SEEs. The contrary has happened: instead of financing
their own investments and yielding profits which contribute to national
savings, the SEEs have become a drain on the Government's financial resources.
2.07      The underlying reason for the deficiencies in economic performance
lies with the social objectives imposed on SEEs which often take precedence
over profitability. The instrument of price controls is, in most cases,
the biggest single impediment to adequate financial returns, causing sales
revenues to lag behind the inflationary rise in production costs. There are
also the usual hinderances which public sector industry has with political
pressures, monopolistic practices, and private sector competition for staff.
The Third Plan recognized the faults of the existing SEE system and outlined
reforms to improve productivity and profitability. The Government subsequently
proposed SEE reform legislation to Parliament, but so far it has not been
passed. How to administer SEEs is a key issue between Turkey's political
parties, and the vital steps for reform must first be taken in the political
arena.
2.08      SEEs Financed by DYB.  Of the 28 major operational SEEs, the
biggest aggregate losses for the 1973-1975 period were incurred by four
enterprises (State Railways, Turkish Coal Corp., Soil Products Office,
1/   In 1973, the usual financing sources sufficed to cover SEE needs.  In
1974, special funds of TL 6.4 billion were obtained for the Central
Bank; in 1975, these special funds rose to TL 7.6 billion, plus TL 2.1
billion from the Treasury, and covered not only investments but working
capital deficits of SEEs.



- 4 -
and the Maritime Bank); Other SEEs which, in the aggregate have been unprofit-
able over the same period were the Meat and Fish Organization, the Milk In-
dustry, Mining (Etibank), Turkish Cement, Pulp and Paper Factories (SEKA),
and Turkish Airlines. Though generally profitable, the majority of the re-
maining SEEs had yields--net profit/equity--which were very low when compared
with the cost of capital in Turkey. Annexes 2 to 4 give key financial figures
on the 20 major industrial SEEs (financial, transport, and communication SEEs
excluded). For 1974, the last year for which detailed information is avail-
able, only six out of these 20 SEEs produced a net yield on equity which was
above the 10% average rate for term loans to the public sector that year.  It
can be concluded that the most profitable SEEs (Turkish Petroleum Company,
Petrochemical Company, Turkish Iron Steel Mills Corp., Turkish Sugar Company)
enjoyed the best leverage on equity, were the most capital intensive, and had
price structures more sensitive to market pressures.  By contrast, the money
losing SEEs were those most subject to social objectives, particularly employ-
ment creation and income redistribution.
2.09      SEEs Financed by Bank Loan to DYB.  The Bank's first loan to DYB
was restricted for use in financing projects in manufacturing and processing
industries and non-fuel mining. The reason for this limitation was that (a)
it is in these sectors that the small and medium-sized projects exist (as so
defined in the context of Turkey's public sector), over which DYB could have
some influence, with Bank support; and (b) the Bank has direct operations in
the other sectors DYB serves so they were excluded from eligibility under
the first loan. 1/ The rationale for this approach was to attempt to extend
institution building activities, through DYB, to those projects and SEEs with
which the Bank would otherwise have no relationship. The performance of 11
out of the 14 SEEs which fit the sector eligibility criteria of the Bank loan
was generally profitable between 1973 and 1975. The economic impact of the
particular projects financed under the Bank loan is analyzed in paras. 4.09
and 4.10.
Conclusion
2.10      The variation in SEE peformance is not the result of any designa-
tion by the Government about which SEEs are to follow economic objectives and
which are to follow social objectives. Instead, this variation is a conse-
quence of the mix in social and economic objectives set for the economy as a
whole and independently followed by SEEs in their respective operations. The
various Governments of Turkey in recent years have recognized the problems
of the SEE system and the need to solve them. The question is therefore not
whether to reform the SEEs, but when and how, and this is a matter to be
1/   There is only one SEE which has received both a direct Bank loan and
financing under the loan to DYB, namely, SEKA (the pulp and paper SEE).
SEEs which have received direct Bank financing but which are not eligible
for financing through the Bank loans to DYB are the Electricity SEE
(TEK), Turkish Iron and Steel Mills Corp, State Railways, Turkish Coal
Corp, and the Istanbul Fertilizer Co.



-5-
decided by Parliament. The Bank's first loan to DYB was an experiment to
see if results could be achieved by working within the SEE system, since fun-
damental changes would require legislation in a form and at a time which can-
not be determined by the Bank. The findings indicate that progress has been
made in strengthening DYB which, in turn, can influence the new investments
and performance of SEEs (para 6.01). A continuation of this approach is recom-
mended, namely, to restrict the Bank loan to those SEEs and sectors where
there are good chances of success in applying economic criteria to operations,
and then to build on this in order to enlarge DYB's influence over the less
efficient SEEs. The Bank's goal is to achieve heightened sensitivity in the
entire SEE system to financial and economic rates of return, increased in-
fluence for DYB over SEEs performance, and consequently more productive and
profitable SEEs.
III. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
Policies
3.01      DYB is subject to Law 440 and Law 441 which together comprise DYB's
Statutes. There has been one new development since the previous Bank loan
appraisal, namely, the Council of Ministers has approved DYB's "Regulations"
which were published on July 29, 1974. These Regulations supplement Laws 440
and 441 by spelling out in detail DYB's functions, responsibilities, and
procedures. Given these three documents (summarized in Annex 5), and DYB's
unique role in the SEE financing system, DYB's Board has seen no need to adopt
a formal Statement of Policy. DYB continues to be a 100% Government owned
institution under the control of the Ministry of Finance, with the purpose of
providing project financing to SEEs. DYB has no debt/ equity limit, no single
exposure limit, and no limits on loan size.
Organization
3.02      Board and Management.  The Chairman of the Board and General Director
of DYB since it was created, Mr. Nedim Rustu Aksal, retired at the end of
1974. It was not until the end of 1975 that the new Chairman and General
Director, Mr. Sukru Akgungor, was appointed. An economist by education, Mr.
Akgungor has held posts in the SPO and most recently in the Ministry of
Finance. Counting the two assistant General Directors, Messrs. Dosluoglu and
Kivanc, DYB's management has a voting majority in the five man Board of
Directors, as is typical for SEEs. The functions and procedures of the Board
have remained unchanged over the past three years. Given Mr. Akgungor's
previous positions in the Government and the record of Messrs. Dosluoglu and
Kivanc over the past years, DYB's management can be considered sound, experi-
enced, and competent.
3.03      Staff.  DYB now has 284 staff positions authorized by the Ministry
of Finance, up from 189 positions authorized as of July, 1976. However, only
148 out of the 284 positions are presently filled (in 1973 there were 181



-6-
authorized and 113 filled).  One of the unfilled posts is that of Legal
Advisor, which will be filled as soon as possible. Progress in hiring addi-
tional staff is hampered by, first, the short supply of qualified candidates
and, second, the competition of higher salaries paid in the private sector.
DYB does have one advantage over other SEEs in that it can employ personnel on
an annual contractual basis at a pay level higher than the standard salary
structure for SEEs. This employment on a contractural basis is a procedure
limited by the Government to DYB, SPO, and the Ministry of Finance. Neverthe-
less, DYB has still not been able to attract enough employees to fill the
positions available The turn-over rate has been reasonable, averaging 12%
p.a. from 1973 to 1975. Very recently DYB received Ministry of Finance
permission (a) to raise somewhat its salary structure for regular employees
and (b) to increase the authorized positions from 189 to 284, including 39
more slots for experts, most of them slated for the Appraisal Department.
During negotiations DYB confirmed its plans to fill a majority of the open
positions by end 1977 (see paras. 3.12 and 3.16).
3.04      Structure.  DYB's organization chart is shown in Annex 6.  There
have been no significant changes in the past three years. It is likely that
DYB management will decide to undertake some organizational changes in the
near future; for example, the possibility of establishing a foreign exchange
division has been studied and will probably be implemented in the near future.
3.05      Training.  DYB has a good reputation for training its staff through
both formal programs and on-the-job instruction. Furthermore, DYB makes a
unique contribution to the public sector by conducting a two month seminar
every year on project appraisal techniques. Mainly due to work commitments,
DYB has had to decline several requests to hold this seminar twice a year.
The seminar accepts up to 60 trainees from various SEEs (DYB's staff included);
the lecturers include experts from Government ministries, SPO, HCB, Turkish
and foreign universities, as well as specialists from the OECD. Since 1967
about 350 employees of SEEs have attended the seminars. Although recently
some SEEs have started to conduct courses for their own staff, DYB is still
the only source of fairly sophisticated training on project appraisal. Usually
the 15 best participants in each course are awarded OECD scholarships to at-
tend Bradford University, England.
Resources
3.06      DYB does not take an active part in mobilizing its own resources.
Instead the necessary funds are obtained and allocated to DYB by the Ministry
of Finance which, as the parent institution, will guarantee DYB's obligations
and is required to act as a provider of last resort (Article 10, Law 441).
The amount of money allocated to DYB each year is dependent on the annual in-
vestment and financial programs of the Government for SEEs. Annex 7 shows
DYB's own term resources employed as of end 1975. There has been no basic
change in the method of raising funds or the sources since the previous Bank
loan appraisal, except for Credits under Special Laws and Managed Funds (see
para. 4.02). All of DYB's borrowings are in local currency, except for the



-7-
first Bank loan and a recently concluded Euro-dollar borrowing of $150 mil-
lion, guaranteed by the Government. In addition, DYB has assumed the repay-
ment obligations on certain foreign aid loans Turkey received from the Federal
Republic of Germany, OECD, and USAID; these particular obligations were taken
over by DYB from the Internal Financing Fund (IFF) and had been handled by
DYB's predecessor organization. The foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan is
passed on to DYB's customers. Risk on the Euro-dollar borrowing is borne by
the Central Bank. The risk on the foreign aid funds (via IFF) is borne by DYB
which has incurred foreign exchange losses every year on this liability in
view of the gradual devaluation of the Turkish lira. As of end 1975, the
Bank's loan disbursements of $5.3 million amounted to only 0.3% of DYB's re-
sources employed; this figure is projected to rise to 1.4% by end 1978 when
the first loan is fully disbursed.
Interest Rates
3.07      In late 1974 DYB increased its standard lending rate from 10.5% to
12.5%. 1/ When SEEs borrow Bank funds through DYB, there is an additional
cost of assuming the foreign exchange risk (the lira/dollar depreciation has
been 18.5% since 1974). Measured by the GDP deflator, inflation in Turkey
rose from 14.7% in 1972 to 27.6% in 1974, before subsiding to an estimated
16.3% in 1975. The Government is determined to lower the rate of inflation
further as rapidly as possible, and there is a good chance that it will
decline to about 10% within the next several years. Taking into account all
of the above, it is likely that the 12.5% currently charged by DYB will result
in a positive real rate of interest over the average life of sub-loans fi-
nanced out of Bank funds.
3.08      As is clear from para. 3.06, interest rates do not play a role in
the mobilization of DYB's resources. As for the allocation of DYB's resources
to SEEs, it should be recognized that interest rates are a very minor element
in the Governmental financing system which is guided by five-year plans, an-
nual programs, and social as well as economic objectives. In 1976, with the
Bank's help in outlining the work, the Government agreed to undertake six
studies on the financial system dealing with flow-of-funds, financial effi-
ciency, informal markets, factors affecting financialization, special law
Banks, and term credit; the studies are to be completed in 1977. Through the
course of these studies as well as through the usual supervision activities,
1/   In its letter of October 30, 1974, the Ministry of Finance instructed
DYB to reduce its normal lending rate by up to 1.5% for railroad and
maritime transport projects and up to 1.0% for communication, energy,
and power, steel, machine-tools, railroad rolling stock manufacture
and repair, and ship building projects; these reductions are only in
order when the cash flow requirements dictate that the project needs a
lower rate to be financially viable.



- 8 -
the Bank will keep a close watch on the interest rate structure. During
negotiations an agreement was reached that the Bank and DYB will exchange
views on DYB's sub-loan interest rate and that, for the present, DYB's sub-
loans would continue to bear a rate of 12 1/2% unless otherwise agreed to by
the Bank.
Lending Procedures
3.09      Project Preparation.  During the annual exercise of the SPO, Plan-
ning Council, and Council of Ministers (para 2.03) when they decide on finan-
cing new and on-going projects for the coming year, DYB often has an opportu-
nity to make its views known on an informal basis, either directly or through
the Ministry of Finance which officially participates in the decision-making
process. Also, when the SEEs are preparing their new projects, it is not
unusual for them to consult with and to seek the advice of DYB before present-
ing their loan applications to it. In neither of these activities does DYB
have any established authority or responsibility; its success is completely
dependent on personal contacts and relations with Government entities and SEEs
concerned. Since DYB is a repository of appraisal expertise and financial
experience, and since project preparation is the best time to influence the
design of new investments, DYB should be given a larger role in project prep-
aration. During negotiations an understanding was reached with the Ministry
of Finance and DYB clarifying DYB's role. In May of each year, the SEEs which
plan to borrow from DYB in the coming year are required to submit summaries of
their new investment proposals. The Ministry of Finance will henceforth
ensure that DYB receives all such summaries and will provide DYB with the full
text of the investment proposals when DYB so requests. DYB will then be able
to consult with all SEEs on all new project proposals destined for application
to DYB in the coming year; also, when appropriate, DYB can then make its views
known to the Ministry of Finance before the decision making process has reached
the final stages, in which the Ministry formally participates.
3.10      Project Appraisal.  DYB's overall appraisal work has shown steady
improvement since the previous Bank loan. The financial aspects of the SEEs,
which are the loan applicants and sponsors of the projects, are now regularly
reviewed whereas in the past DYB focused only on the project entity. The
technical aspects are generally well covered, due to qualified staff with
engineering credentials in DYB's Appraisal Department. As for economic
analyses, prior to the Bank's first loan, DYB did not systematically calcu-
late the economic benefits and, when it did so, used the value added approach.
At the request of and in cooperation with the Bank, DYB started in 1975 to
employ the Bank's recommended guidelines on calculating the internal economic
rate of return (ERR) for those sub-projects submitted to the Bank. This work
is now very well done, and DYB has reached the stage where it should also
attempt to analyze external project benefits and costs even though they are
not generally quantifiable. Current deficiencies in DYB's appraisal reports
worth mentioning are the lack of information on the management of project
entities and the avoidance of substantive discussion on sector or SEE policies;



- 9 -
also, it is often necessary for the Bank to remind DYB about including its
opinion on SEE procurement practices. DYB is very sensitive about its rela-
tions with SEEs and hence is reluctant to be critical, particularly about
management; the same sensitivity exists with regard to analysis or criticism
of sector policies, which are established by the Government. During negotia-
tions the Bank and DYB confirmed their mutual understanding about the sub-
stance of appraisal work. DYB gave assurances that it would gradually apply
the Bank's guidelines on the ERR to all new projects which it appraises,
regardless of the source of financing; an understanding was reached that this
practice would be implemented over a two year period.
3.11      After reviewing an investment proposal, DYB has severval alterna-
tives. It can return the loan application to the SEE because it is not com-
plete, not correct, or not in keeping with the Plan and the annual programs.
Also, DYB can try to convince the SEE to withdraw the application because
it is not eligible for technical, economic or financial reasons. If a
project's cash flow is not sufficient to cover debt service but it is in
an under-developed region where external economic and social factors come
into play, then DYB can obtain a Treasury guarantee for such a loan (at
end 1975 there were three such loans outstanding, amounting to TL 949.9
million). Besides those projects headed off before the loan application
stage (para 3.09), DYB, for the reasons described above, did not approve
16 out of 54 applications received in 1973, 6 out of 26 in 1974, and 10 out
of 18 in 1975. This illustrates the useful screening function DYB performs
in trying to improve the quality of SEEs investments. If there is a dis-
pute or if DYB rejects a project outright, the SEE concerned can appeal
DYB's decision and seek arbitration according to a prescribed procedure;
to date no SEE has resorted to arbitration. It can be concluded that
DYB, through its established procedures and moral suasion, does in fact
influence SEE investments, provided construction on the projects has not
already started; for this reason, DYB's input to project preparation and
investment decision-making is to be strengthened (para. 3.09.)
3.12      The 29 staff members in DYB's Appraisal Department have been ably
led by the Assistant General Director and three group heads; unfortunately,
two of these group heads recently left DYB for other institutions. In
addition, the Department is under-staffed. A concerted effort needs to be
made to increase the Appraisal Department staff in order to (a) take a
broader role in the SEE project preparation cycle proposed for DYB, (b)
handle the increased appraisal work load anticipated in 1978 when the next
Plan period begins, and (c) conduct project supervision activities properly
since they too are a responsibility of the Appraisal Department (see para
3.16).
3.13      Loan Contracts.  DYB does not take specific security on its loans,
because it has by law the general right to liquidate assets of delinquent
SEEs in cases of unpaid loans. SEEs are Government-owned so there is no
reason for the Government to take security against itself, given that DYB
is also an SEE. In the first Bank loan to DYB, agreement was reached about



- 10 -
a number of amendments needed in DYB's standard loan contract with SEEs so
that the contract would conform with legal requirements for sub-loans to be
financed by the Bank. After receiving a draft of the revised contract, a bank
lawyer visited DYB to discuss further amendments needed. DYB's contract used
for Bank financed sub-loans now covers satisfactorily the total amount of
project financing to be provided, right of supervision during the construction
and operation of the project, assumption of foreign exchange risk by the sub-
borrowers, and various other terms and conditions deemed necessary.
3.14      By law, DYB's contracts must be signed by the SEEs.  However, there
is nothing to prohibit the additional signature of an Establishment or an SEE
subsidiary when they are involved, i.e. when they are the actual entity under-
taking the project rather than the head-office of the SEE itself. In fact,
the project entity is usually an Establishment. When this is so and when it
is in existence at the time DYB makes the loan, then the Establishment should
also sign the contract along with its parent SEE. The purpose of dual signa-
ture is to make management of the project entity fully aware of its obliga-
tions to DYB and also to facilitate DYB's supervision functions. During
negotiations DYB gave assurances that it would require dual signature, when-
ever possible.
3.15      Supervision.  DYB is required by law to supervise projects it
finances during the construction phase, but not after operations have started.
This is because the High Control Board (HDB), an autonomous agency attached to
Parliament, is directly charged with supervising all SEEs and their operations,
as are the Ministries to which the SEE's are related. From the point of view
of protecting its credit risk, there is no pressing need for DYB to supervise
projects after they are in operation, because DYB's loan is to the parent SEE
which is much bigger than any individual project DYB finances and because the
Government takes care of SEEs operational deficits and liquidity needs.
Still, not supervising or at least visiting a project after it is in operation
deprives DYB of the opportunity to obtain empirical evidence about what really
happened to the investment which it appraised, approved, and financed; such
evidence would provide useful input for DYB's future appraisal work on similar
projects (for example, DYB will be financing a number of sugar factories,
and it should learn from experience on the past projects in order to prevent
mistakes in the future ones). DYB's contract with sub-borrowers of Bank funds
does include the right to supervise sub-projects after they are in operation.
During negotiations DYB gave assurances that it would gradually undertake
post-construction supervision of all projects; an understanding was reached
that this would be the practice within two years.
3.16      None of the investments financed under the Bank's first loan to DYB
have yet reached the operational stage, so performance of DYB's supervision
obligations in this regard cannot be judged. DYB's responsibility to
supervise all projects during the construction phase has not been fully dis-
charged due to lack of staff in the Appraisal Department, which also has the
duty of supervision. In 1973 DYB visited 64% of projects under construction;
in 1974, 52%; and in 1975, 49%. This performance is not satisfactory and can



- 11 -
only be remedied through employment of additional qualified staff (para 3.03).
Supervision reports on visits are written and distributed to management and
the Board of Directors; if warranted, they are also sent to the Ministry of
Finance, SPO, and the SEE and Ministry concerned. Desk supervision is under-
taken through the quarterly and semi-annual reports which borrowers are
required to submit to DYB during the period a project is under construction.
3.17.     Procurement, Disbursement and Collection.  SEEs employ international
competitive bidding, according to regulations approved by their related Min-
istries, and use procedures which are satisfactory. Documentation on cost
estimates is submitted to DYB, and all records on expenditures are available
for DYB's examination. Requests for disbursement must be fully supported by
invoices and other evidence. During the initial stages of the Bank loan DYB
had some difficulties with the Bank's disbursement procedures, but they are
now much less frequent. DYB's loan collection procedures are adequate.
IV. OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Characteristics of Operations
4.01      Approvals of new projects are a function of annual investment and
financing programs established by the Government for SEEs. The largest
number of approvals occurs in the first year of each five year Development
Plan with the number tapering off toward the end of each Plan period. As
shown in Annex 8, during the first three years (1973-75) of the Third Plan,
total approvals amounted to TL 16,136 million, about four times higher than
the corresponding period (1968-1970) of the second Development Plan.
Annual commitments and disbursements are rather level compared with the wide
fluctuation of approvals. During the 1973-1975 period, commitments grew at
an annual average rate of 36% while disbursements grew at an average rate of
53% (for 1970-72, these figures were 10% and 14% respectively). DYB's dis-
bursements during 1973-1975 accounted for 37.2% of all SEE's estimated fixed
investments, compared with 20% during the 1970-72 period. The number of
SEE's borrowing from DYB has increased somewhat, with 27 clients on the
books in 1975 compared to 23 in 1973.
4.02      Varieties of Lending.  DYB is currently providing credit in
three forms: term loans, working capital loans, and credits under special
laws. Term loans are the bulk of DYB's business, amounting to TL 22,809 mil-
lion outstanding as of December 31, 1975 and equivalent to 71% of DYB's total
portfolio. Total working capital loans outstanding accounted for only 6% of
DYB's total portfolio. 1/ Credits under special laws amounted to 23% of DYB's
1/   During the first half of 1976, total working capital loans more than
tripled, from TL 1,870 million to TL 6,097 million. Between end 1975
and June 30, 1976 the Managed Funds doubled, from TL 6,255 million to
TL 12,568 million.



- 12 -
portfolio at end 1975; most of these credits were made for eight years out
of resources passed on to DYB by the Central Bank to finance the SEE's
working capital and other requirements. In 1974 the Constitutional Court
ordered DYB to stop extending credit under special laws for several reasons,
of which the one most worth noting is that DYB is supposed to finance spe-
cific projects according to established procedures, not supply credit for
general needs without project appraisal, e.g., working capital loans for
general purposes.
4.03      Besides the above-mentioned lending operations carried on its own
accounts, DYB in 1975 started to manage credits extended directly to SEEs out
of Central Bank funds with Ministry of Finance (Treasury) guaranty. The Gov-
ernment resorted to using DYB as a conduit for these "Managed Funds" in order
to meet the SEEs urgent needs for additional working capital in 1975; also,
as mentioned above, credits under special laws were no longer a legal means
for doing this. These Managed Funds amounted to TL 6,255 million at end
1975 1/ and, in keeping with development finance company (DFC) appraisal stand-
ards, are shown below the balance sheet proper, because DYB does not have any
risk exposure. In fact, handling Managed Funds resulted in an unexpected
profit for DYB in 1975 since it paid the Central Bank 8.75% on the money,
which was loaned out at 11%. If this method of financing SEEs is used in
the future, it is not known whether or not DYB will be afforded such a
favorable yield spread.
4.04      Foreign Exchange Risk.  All of DYB's recent and current lending
operations are denominated in Turkish lira, except for sub-loans financed by
the Bank on which the SEEs bear the foreign exchange risk. In the case of
Turkish lira loans and credits, when they are to finance imported goods and
services the SEEs must obtain the needed foreign exchange from the Central
Bank, which in turn bears the foreign exchange risk.
4.05      Sector Distribution of Loans.  A breakdown of term loan approvals
by industrial sector (1973-1975) is given in Annex 9, and a breakdown of all
loans outstanding to SEEs at end 1975 is shown in Annex 10. The distribution
of loans is not due to any decision on DYB's part--rather, it is as a result
of the Government's annual investment and financial programs. For example,
in 1973, 40% of DYB's approvals of new projects went to the energy sector,
26% to telecommunications, and only 14% to manufacturing. However, during
the past two years, manufacturing accounted for 66% and 70% respectively
since there were no new energy or telecommunication projects programmed by
the Government. Within the manufacturing sector, which had 32% of loan
approvals during 1973-1975, most new loan approvals went to SEEs producing
consumer and intermediate goods. This reflects Turkey's current stage of
1/   During the first half of 1976, total working capital loans more than
tripled, from TL 1,870 million to TL 6,097 million. Between end 1975
and June 30, 1976 the Managed Funds doubled, from TL 6,255 million to
TL 12,568 million.



- 13 -
economic development. During the last three years, DYB's approvals for
manufacturing were heavily concentrated in food processing (31%), pulp and
paper (31%), and chemicals (12%). On the basis of end 1975 figures for all
types of loans outstanding, the biggest single borrower from DYB was the iron
and steel SEE amounting to 17% of DYB's portfolio. DYB's lending operations
are fairly well distributed and help reduce DYB's risk to fluctuations in the
economy and the business cycle.
4.06      Maturity.  Annex 11 shows the varying duration of term loans approved
by DYB during 1973-1975. Amortization periods are determined by DYB's Board
based on the project's profitability, location, and technology of production.
In general, projects located in less-developed areas and infrastructure proj-
ects are given longer terms. A median amortization period for the number of
loans approved during 1973-1975 was about 10 years. By amount, loans of
14-19 years accounted for 67% of the total projects approved.
4.07      Size.  A breakdown of term loans by size is shown in Annex 12.  Al-
though DYB does not have a policy limiting its share in financing project
costs, its loans usually amount to 60-70% of total SEE investment in new
projects. The amount of a loan is of course determined by the capital re-
quirements of the project and the SEE's repayment ability within the limits
set per SEE under the annual financial programs. The size distribution can
fluctuate greatly from year to year, depending on the Government's investment
plans. For the 1973-1975 period almost half the number of loans approved were
for less than TL 110 million ($6.9 million), most of them being for expansion
or modernization projects. During this period the average loan amount was
TL 244 million ($15.3 million). Furthermore, for those loans above the
median of TL 110 million ($6.9 million), the average amount was TL 403 million
($25.2 million). Given the size of most SEEs and their individual invest-
ments, the definition of a small-scale project falls in the $1-5 million
range while medium-scale would be $5-15 million, based on projects as approved
by DYB over the 1973-75 period. Actual costs of these projects will turn out
to be substantially higher when all the evidence is in, due to inflation.
4.08      Geographical Distribution.  For the 1973-1975 period, 23% of
approvals for new projects were in the Aegean area, followed by the
Mediterranean, Middle Anatolian, and Marmara/Istanbul areas in that order
(see Annex 13). In 1975, about 40% of all projects approved were located
in under-developed areas. This reflects the Government's policy of dis-
persing new industrial projects to various centers across the country.
Economic Impact of Bank Financed Sub-Projects
4.09      As of October 1, 1976, 10 sub-loan applications had been received
and approved by the Bank under the first loan to DYB (see Annex 14).  The
Bank's total commitments for these 10 sub-loans amount to $38.3 million which,
in view of subsequent exchange rate fluctuations and cost increases, will
probably result in full usage of the $40 million loan; if not, the authoriza-
tion date will be extended as necessary to permit full commitment. By amount
approved, the distribution of the Bank's sub-loans was 25% to textiles and 20%



- 14 -
to chemicals, with the rest spread over six other branches of industry. Four
of the ten sub-projects were located in underdeveloped areas. Two of the sub-
projects directly replaced imports with their production. The remaining sub-
projects were neither explicitly export-oriented nor aimed at substituting for
existing imports. Instead, they were intended to develop domestic industry in
order to meet future domestic demand, primarily for intermediate goods; thus,
they are import substituting in their final effect.
4.10      The estimated financial rates of return (FRR) and economic rates
of return (ERR) on the 10 sub-projects averaged out as follows:
Sub-Loans                      FRR avg.          ERR avg.
5 investments in new projects              22%                30%
5 investments in expansion projects        29%                33%
10 projects, weighted average 1/            25%                29%
These are satisfactory returns, since they are roughly twice the cost of
capital in Turkey. It should be noted that the average returns on the five
expansion sub-projects are somewhat inflated, because total real costs are
understated. This occurs because the existing plants had made excess invest-
ment in certain infrastructure, buildings and equipment in anticipation
of expansion, which would then draw upon these facilities already available.
On the other hand, in these expansion sub-projects there are significant
external benefits which have also not been included in the ERR calculations,
namely: four of the sub-projects have secondary employment effects resulting
from increased agricultural production (cotton, sugar beets, and timber) to
provide inputs for expanded processing plants; and three of the sub-projects
are located in underdeveloped regions of Turkey. Thus, the external benefits
of these expansion sub-projects tend to offset possible overstatement of the
ERR. There are other external benefits, besides secondary employment effects
and regional development, which should also be noted in SEE investments
financed by DYB: introducing new technology and goods, creating skilled
labor, training engineers and staff, establishing infrastructure facilities,
and redistributing income. Although these external benefits have not been
included in ERR calculations, they are important and in accordance with the
Government's assignment of economic and social objectives to SEEs. Having
sensitized DYB to externalities in Bank financed sub-projects, the Bank
expects DYB to increase its efforts to identify and, where possible, analyze
external benefits and costs (para 3.10).
4.11      Concerning employment creation, the Third Plan clearly states that
modern and capital intensive technologies will be necessary in the industrial
sector to make it competitive with EEC industry in the long run. The most
noticeable result of this policy is in heavy industry where the SEEs which DYB
1/   In Turkey's private sector DFC, the weighted average financial and
economic rates of return in 34 sub-projects out of the total 101 sub-
projects approved in 1975 were 23.0% and 20.5%, respectively.



- 15 -
lends to predominate and where technology of production is inherently capital
intensive. The average cost per job-created by the Bank financed sub-projects
of DYB is estimated at $75,000. However, if this analysis excludes three very
capital intensive sub-projects (one.of which has high secondary employment
effects), then the estimated average cost per job-created under the remaining
sub-projects drops to $43,000. 1/ Most SEEs have traditionally been required
to create more jobs than the technology of production legitimately justifies,
to the detriment of their profitability. The emphasis now is on making them
more efficient, profit producing, and internationally competitive so that they
are net contributors to the Government's financial resources. The trade-off
between this and the cost of direct jobs created is acceptable, particularly
in view of the ERR, secondary employment effects, and other external benefits
resulting from SEEs investments.
Financial Performance
4.12      Profitability.  DYB's financial statements and performance indic-
ators for 1973-1975 are shown in Annexes 15, 16, 17 and 18. Profitability is
mainly determined by DYB's spread on the interest rate charged for term loans
(currently 12.5%) and the cost of DYB's bonds (currently 11%). When combined
with the spread on other loans and resources (excluding Managed Funds and some
other special kinds of credits), DYB's overall yield spread in 1975 was 2.0%,
compared to 1.5% in 1973. Net income before taxes has doubled, from TL 334.7
million in 1973 to TL 765.2 million in 1975 (2.2% and 2.5% respectively of
average total assets). Measured as return on average net worth, net income
before taxes in 1973 yielded 23.4% and in 1975, 38%. DYB's performance is not
as impressive as it first appears, given the relatively high price of capital
in Turkey and DYB's low costs. However, for a DFC serving the public sector,
DYB's profitability is adequate and reflects the following factors: a well
leveraged capital base (para 4.15), a sound portfolio with no losses or ex-
cessive arrears, a consistently positive yield spread on operations, and low
administrative costs resulting from the relatively small staff compared to
volume of operations. DYB pays a corporation tax amounting to 35% and various
other taxes amounting to 6.5% of net income.
4.13      Arrears, Provisions and Reserves.  The arrears situation of DYB's
loans is satisfactory (Annex 19). However, this does not necessarily reflect
good performance on the part of DYB's borrowers. Rather, it is mainly because
the Mfinistry of Finance, when it formulates the annual financing program every
year, takes into account SEEs' overdue debts and allocates sufficient funds
to pay off most arrears as well as cover fresh requirements. There has been
a slight decrease in the amount of principal and interest in arrears of
over three months, from 1.6% as a percentage of total portfolio at end 1974
to 1.0% at end June 1976. The loans which were affected by these arrears rose
slightly from 3% of portfolio to 4%. DYB had no arrears more than one year
past due at end June 1976 because of the Consolidation Law enacted in 1975.
1/   In the six countries where DFCs have been recently studied in depth,
highest cost per job created was $48,000, in the DFC in Greece.



- 16 -
(it consolidated and re-scheduled TL 473.9 million in SEE debts, in the form
of 10-year loans to DYB). 1/ There was a precedent for this rescheduling;
in 1970, upon instructions from the Ministry of Finance, DYB rescheduled
TL 1,260.5 million in working capital loans.
4.14      By law, DYB sets aside three kinds of provisions, appropriated out
of net profit after taxes. For development banking purposes, one of these
accounts can be considered general provisions for possible losses on loans,
because it is calculated on the basis of a formula applied to the amount of
loan portfolio outstanding and to estimated risks. At end 1975 this account
amounted to TL 423.4, or 1.3% of total loan portfolio. Since DYB has never
suffered loss on a loan 2/ and since the Government has a reliable system
for financing and re-financing SEEs, described above, the general provisions
indicated appear to be adequate. In addition, DYB at end 1975 had reserves
and surplus amounting to TL 575 million. Together with general provisions
this amounts to a comfortable cushion against possible future losses on
loans.
4.15      Capital.  Since 1973 the Ministry of Finance has permitted DYB to
increase its equity base by retaining net profit after taxes and other
required allocations, rather than transferring net profits to the Ministry.
As a result, paid-in share capital has risen from TL 1,000 million in 1971
to TL 1,400 million at end 1975. In addition, net interest of TL 306 million
received on certain credits under special laws is retained, to be converted
to capital at a future date as yet to be determined. Given these sources of
fresh capital, it is likely that DYB's total authorized capital of TL 2,000
million will be fully paid in by end 1977.
4.16      Financial Position and Creditworthiness.  From 1973 to 1975 DYB's
total assets doubled. Loan portfolio increased from TL 15,934 million to
TL 32,277 million, while long-term borrowings rose at a slightly higher
rate. Equity, adjusted to include permanent Central Bank deposits with DYB,
did not keep pace with the increase in operations; the term debt/equity
ratio rose from 4.6:1 in 1973 to 7.8:1 in 1975. Since DYB is permitted by
law to issue bonds without being restricted by the amount of its capital,
1/   Under Article 7 of the Law, all the debts and credits among all SEEs,
including DYB, which were overdue as of December 31, 1974 were, first,
set off against each other, this process being coordinated by the
Ministry of Finance. Then all such debts and credits which remained
as of the above date were transferred to DYB. Such debts or credits
to DYB stood at TL 473.9 million as of December 31, 1975. The
creditors to DYB will set off their credits against their debts to
DYB. The debtors to DYB will repay their debts to DYB over 5 years,
following five years grace period, at an interest rate of 6% p.a.
2/   There is one loan inherited from the Government when DYB was created
which is now in the process of being written off; it has been fully
covered in a separate loss account.



- 17 -
a debt/equity covenant could not be incorporated in the first Bank loan;
instead, agreement was reached on a debt service coverage ratio, to be a
minimum of 1.3:1 (the ratio is calculated by dividing DYB's debt payments
into its loan receipts). DYB has stayed well above the 1.3 minimum, the
ratios being 1.7 in 1974 and 2.0 in 1975. DYB can be considered credit-
worthy because of the repayment record established by its SEE borrowers
and because DYB's profitability, equity base, financial position, and
management are satisfactory.
Audit and Accounts
4.17      All SEEs, including DYB, are supervised by the High Control Board
(HCB), an independent agency responsible to Parliament and attached to the
Prime Minister's office. Created in 1938, the HCB is supposed to keep SEEs
under continuous supervision and to perform an annual audit which encompasses
their technical, economic, financial, fiscal, administrative, and social acti-
vities. After the HCB audit report on DYB has been drafted, it is presented
to DYB for comment, particularly on any criticisms or recommendations set
forth. Subsequently, the report is submitted no later than end November by
the Prime Minister's office to a joint Parliamentary committee. Within 90
days the joint committee forwards the report, along with its own observations,
to Parliament for final consideration. Only when Parliament has approved the
financial statements is DYB's Board of Directors absolved from obligation on
the accounts.
4.18      In the Bank's first loan to DYB, the HCB was accepted as independent
auditors, but the Bank reserved the right to review this at any time during
the period of the loan. An understanding was also reached with DYB that the
HCB audit report would include an assessment of DYB's loan portfolio and an
opinion on the adequacy of provisions for losses. The HCB reports sent to the
Bank on DYB's 1974 and 1975 accounts were lengthy, detailed, and useful and
showed gradual improvement over reports of previous years. However, these
reports resembled operational reviews rather than conventional audits satis-
factory to the Bank. In particular, the reports did not indicate the account-
ing tests and auditing procedures employed, gave no explicit opinion on the
accounts, and made no assessment of the portfolio and its risks or the adequacy
of provisions. Furthermore, the reports did not follow the recommended DFC
format, include all the required information, or reach the Bank by May 31 as
stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The Bank has passed on its observations in
detail and has received confirmation from DYB that it will give every encour-
agement to HCB to meet the Bank's requirements. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that (a) the HCB would continue to be considered auditors of
DYB; (b) the Bank would continue to reserve the right to review this decision
at any time; and (c) HCB's usual report would include an evaluation of DYB's
loan portfolio and provision for bad and doubtful debts.
4.19      DYB's accounts are kept in a fashion which is an amalgam of banking
system directives, Ministry of Finance practices, and DYB's own procedures
based on tradition. Presentation of the accounts was properly criticized in
the HCB report which, for example, recommended that DYB set aside the Managed



- 18 -
Funds and loans from the Central Bank in separate accounts (see para 4.02).
In fact, there were a number of accounting items requiring attention. The 1975
balance sheet presented in the HCB report showed total assets of TL 47.8 bil-
lion but, after the adjustments made in conformity with DFC loan appraisal
work, the total 1975 assets shrink to TL 33.4 billion. Of the many improve-
ments needed in DYB's accounting procedures, the principal ones are the fol-
lowing: (a) more refined classification of accounts particularly current
assets and liability, Managed Funds, and equity; (b) more detailed and com-
prehensive income statement; (c) elimination of double-counting;  (d) correct
calculation and presentation of provisions; and (e) revised format more in
keeping with international standards and the Bank's "Illustrative Form of
Audit Report for Development Finance Companies". In just three years DYB has
grown from less than $1 billion to over $2 billion in assets--an institution
of this size needs and deserves accounting, bookkeeping, and information
gathering procedures consonant with its position in Turkey's financial sys-
tem. After the Bank appraisal mission, DYB started to undertake the improve-
ments needed. It has confirmed that it will continue this work and exchange
views with the Bank about it from time to time.
V. PROSPECTS
Economic Forecast
5.01      The Government's Annual Program for 1976 projects GDP growth at
7.5% compared to 8.8% realized in 1975. This appears to be a physically
attainable target in view of the prospect for a good harvest. As for the
medium-term, the Fourth Five Year Plan has still to take shape, but the
Government's target growth rate should be around 8% p.a.; the strategy is
expected to continue emphasizing rapid modernization and industrialization
in a mixed economy. To sustain rapid growth, investments would have to be
made at a continued high rate. In 1976, aggregate investment is projected
to rise by 16% and public investment by 12% in real terms, compared to 18%
and 26% realized respectively in 1975; this reflects the normal cyclical
decline which occurs toward the end of each Plan period. Over the next few
years, investment should remain at least at these levels in order to sustain
GDP growth. Since internal savings by SEEs cannot be expected to improve
during the next several years, DYB will continue to be an important source of
financing SEEs' capital investments.
Projected Operations
5.02      As in the past, DYB's future level of operations will be a direct
result of the next Five Year Plan (1978-1982) and the annual programs.
Actually, DYB's project pipeline cannot even be forecast until the annual
investment and financial programs reach the decision-making stage in late
autumn each year. Among other reasons, this is because the profitability and
liquidity of every SEE has to be considered before the Government can decide



- 19 -
how to allocate funds to the public sector for the coming year. Annex 20
shows DYB's projected operations for 1976-1979 and gives the assumptions which
are primarily based on past experience. Projected operations are as follows
(in TL million):
1976      1977       1978       1979
Approvals of New Projects         11,681     7,930    L5,904       2,807
Commitments (Annual Tranches)   6,929        8,038    10,449    12,016
Disbursements                     6,236      7,234      9,404    10,815
Average annual amount of approvals for 1976-1979 would be about TL 9,600 mil-
lion, compared to TL 4,800 million during the preceding four years (1972-1975).
The highly irregular pattern of approvals is a function of the five year plan
cycle, given the past record. In view of the above, it is likely that DYB's
share in SEEs' total fixed investments would decrease somewhat from the
present level of 37%.
5.03      Resources.  Based on the disbursements forecast, total resource
needs for 1976-1979 would be TL 33.7 billion. Assuming the Government con-
tinues to supply DYB with funds using the same mechanisms as in the past,
resources would come from the following:
(TL billion)   (% of total)
Bond Issues                                      14.8             44
IBRD Loans I and II                               1.3              4
Other Foreign Borrowings                          2.4              7
Net Collections                                  11.1             33
Retained Earnings (excluding a portion
to be transferred to share capital)         1.8               5
Other cash generation                             0.4              1
Share Capital Increases paid-in                   1.9              6
Total                                      33.7             100
Besides selling bonds to government pension funds, DYB is expected to have
another source in the newly created social security fund for self-employed
workers. For the first time, DYB is borrowing in the Euro-market: a medium
term Eurodollar loan of $150 million, at 1.75% over LIBOR, with the Govern-
ment's guaranty has just been obtained. As for paid-in share capital, the
Government has indicated that DYB can continue to retain its net earnings for
conversion into capital, along with the conversion of tax free income from
Credits under Special Laws. This should raise paid-in capital to its autho-
rized level of TL 2.0 billion by the end of 1977. DYB's capital base will



- 20 -
then require further strengthening. The Government recognizes this and a
Parliamentary committee has already discussed an increase in DYB's authorized
capital by TL 3.0 billion, to be paid in over a five year period so that total
paid-in capital would amount to TL 5.0 billion by end 1982.
5.04      During negotiations, the Government and DYB confirmed the intention
to obtain an increase in DYB's capital from TL 2 billion to TL 5 billion.
(This will require legislation so no time limit could be fixed to bring this
about.) The Government and DYB have also confirmed that the unpaid balance of
DYB's currently authorized capital of TL 2 billion would be paid in during
1977. These objectives recognize that the financial strength of DYB, which
lends only to the state sector as an integral part of the Government's financ-
ing system, fundamentally rests on the Government itself; but that, neverthe-
less, improvement of DYB's capital base is sound development banking and
should help in present and future efforts to borrow funds in the international
capital market. The Bank welcomes any effort by DYB to obtain funds from the
international capital market but does not intend to seek any agreement on the
mobilization of such resources in connection with the proposed loan. This is
because, when DYB borrows, it is tantamount to an obligation of the Ministry
of Finance whose borrowings are of course a function of the Government's own
policy for managing the public debt.
5.05      Financial Statements.  Projected financial statements are given
in Annexes 21, 22, and 23. DYB's net profit after tax would grow at an
annual average rate of 26%. This is mainly due to the growth in DYB's loan
portfolio and specifically due to improvement in the margin on DYB's in-
vestment credits, resulting from the roll-over of resources derived from
DYB bonds issued earlier at lower interest rates and re-loaned at higher
rates. Administrative expenses are projected to grow at an annual average
rate of 60% but would still remain below 0.2% of the average total assets
in 1979. As a result, DYB's profitability before tax as a percentage of
its average net worth would improve from 38% in 1975 to 42% in 1979.
5.06      Total assets would grow at an annual average rate of 12%, in line
with the increase in loan portfolio. Assuming that the Government policy
regarding the allocation of DYB's net profits remains unchanged, DYB's net
worth is projected to grow at an annual average rate of 22%, much higher than
the long-term debt (11% p.a.) and a welcome development in view of the need
to build up the capital base. Treating the permanent Central Bank deposits of
TL 1,297 million as quasi-equity, the debt/equity ratio would improve gradually
from its peak at 7.8:1 at the end of 1976 to 6.3:1 at the end of 1979. How-
ever, the future debt/equity ratio really depends on the way in which the
Government will finance SEEs, that is, whether it increasingly resorts to
using the mechanism of Managed Funds through DYB, as it started to do in 1975,
or whether DYB's increased business is handled for its own account in the
usual manner. Projected debt service coverage ratio would range between 1.6
and 1.8 during 1976-1977, well above the minimum limit of 1.3.



- 21 -
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Performance under First Bank Loan
6.01      Given the SEE system and the role assigned to DYB in financing
public sector industry, DYB's performance of commitments concluded under the
first Bank loan has been satisfactory. DYB's appraisal work has improved.
The financial, technical, and economic analyses have become more comprehensive,
and the Bank's guidelines on the ERR calculation have been properly employed.
The deficiencies worth noting were in DYB's reluctance to discuss SEEs' man-
agement and policies and the lack of adequate description on unquantifiable
external benefits. DYB can and does perform a screening function with regard
to proposed SEE projects which do not meet the Government's criteria. DYB has
devised and employed a contract for sub-loans financed by the Bank which
meets Bank requirements. Supervision of projects has not been adequate and
reflects DYB's staff constraints. The lack of a General Director for almost
one year and the difficulty in hiring staff to fill allocated positions have
caused problems which the new General Director is now trying to resolve. The
Bank's audit requirement has not been met, though some improvement in HCB
reports has been noted. With regard to the SEE sector, the projects financed
out of the proceeds of the Bank loan have an estimated economic impact which
is demonstrable:  the weighted average FRR and ERR were 25.1% and 29.0%
respectively, considerably above most projects financed by the Bank in Turkey
on a direct basis. Furthermore, the rate of return on DYB's own operations
has been very good, with its net income before taxes yielding 38% on average
net worth in 1975. From the point of view of transferring resources quickly
and efficiently, the first loan to DYB was also successful since it was almost
fully committed within two years of effectiveness, and disbursements are gen-
erally on schedule. The Bank's first loan was admittedly an experiment in
institution-building and, summarizing from the above record, it can be con-
cluded that the results have been clearly favorable.
Objectives and Criteria of Proposed Loan
6.02      The proposed loan has, as one set of objectives, the continuation
and expansion of institution building efforts initiated under the first Bank
loan. As indicated above in para 6.01, DYB can effectively use Bank support
in order to carry forward needed improvements already under way--in appraising
projects, in carrying out post-construction supervision, in hiring and training
required staff, and in obtaining audits which meet international standards. A
second set of objectives makes much more explicit the general purpose of the
first loan to expand DYB's role in the SEE system. The proposed loan strength-
ens DYB's hand in the Government's decision making process on SEE investments,
promotes DYB as a key spokesman sensitizing the Government and SEEs to the
full economic benefits and costs o_ projects, and increases DYB's influence in
screening out and modifying questionable projects. A third set of objectives,
not included in the first Bank loan, concern efforts to increase DYB's equity
base, to improve its accounting system, and to fulfill the assignment of



- 22 -
effectively allocating resources raised by the Government in foreign markets.
The end result of these objectives should be a stronger intermediary in DYB,
better SEE projects and thus more efficient and profitable SEEs.
6.03      The 1977-78 pipeline of projects for DYB will not be clearly defined
until January. The notional 1977-78 pipeline (Annex 24) shows the average
size of projects to be $66.4 million; the median is $23.6 million, indicating
how much the average is skewed by very large projects. A second Bank loan, of
$70 million, would cover 6% of DYB's projected commitments during the 1977-78
period. During negotiations, DYB and the Bank reached agreements and under-
standings on the following criteria to be applied to sub-projects submitted for
Bank financing under a second loan:
(a) the loan would be restricted primarily to projects in manu-
facturing and processing industries and, to a limited extent, in
non-fuel mining; these are the same sectors which were eligible
under the first loan;
(b) the Bank's contribution to DYB's individual project fi-
nancing would be within the range of $1 to 9 million, com-
pared to $1 to 6 million in the first loan, the increase
being justified by the rate of inflation in Turkey over
the past three years and the increasing average size of
projects undertaken by SEEs (during the 1977-78 period it
is expected that projects financed by Bank sub-loans will
generally be in the $10-25 million range, total cost, which
is still below the size of industrial projects which the
Bank would consider financing on a direct basis in Turkey).
Bank financing would cover at least 10% of sub-project costs
and would only be used for foreign exchange expenditures;
(c) both the FRR and ERR would be reasonably above the interest
rate charged on sub-loans (currently 12 1/2%); furthermore,
DYB would attempt to approximate the FRR and ERR levels of
sub-projects submitted under the first loan (para. 4.10);
DYB would also try to submit sub-projects with an average
cost per job of less than $50,000.
(d) there would be a free limit of $2 million and an aggregate
free limit of $14 million; the number of projects above the
free limit to be sent to the Bank would be a minimum of 12,
thus making the theoretical average Bank sub-loan equivalent
to $5.8 million.
6.04      The covenants and conditions to be part of the second loan would
be those customarily included in DFC loan agreements. Given DYB's complete
dependence on the Ministry of Finance for resources, the Government would
cover any additional need for funds when DYB finances sub-projects approved by
the Bank. DYB's interest rate on Bank financed sub-projects would be 12.5%,



23 -
subject to review, and the foreign exchange risk would continue to be borne by
sub-borrowers. The debt service coverage ratio of 1.3 would continue to
apply. There would be an adjustable composite amortization scheme, and the
loan term would be 17 years, including up to 3 years grace. Agreement on all
of the above points was reached during negotiations and included in the Loan
and Guaranty Agreements. The projected disbursement schedule is shown in
Annex 25.
Justification
6.05      The first Bank loan to DYB was admittedly an experiment and had
limited objectives. It has succeeded well enough to justify a second loan
which not only continues the objectives of the first but significantly expands
them, defines them with explicit measures, and introduces new objectives (see
para 6.02). Loans to DYB permit the Bank to get involved in projects, and
with SEEs, with which the Bank would otherwise not have any association
because of their smaller size. 1/ The results of this relationship with DYB
should be improved projects and increased profitability for SEEs, as well as
a better opportunity for the Bank to learn about the overall problems of SEEs
and how to solve them. The Bank's association with DYB, by working within the
existing SEE system, is thus designed to produce a catalytic effect on the
eventual reform of public sector industry in Turkey. This is an admittedly
long-term process. In the meantime, DYB can work as an effective intermediary
for transferring resources from the Bank to economically sound projects.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached on
the following issues:
(a) plans for hiring additional staff (para 3.03);
(b) review of interest rates (para 3.08);
(c) DYB's role in project preparation cycle (para 3.09);
(d) uniform standards of sub-project appraisal work and
the substance of appraisal work (para 3.10);
(e) dual signature on DYB contracts with its borrowers
(para 3.14);
1/   The Bank's five most recent direct loans to SEEs, DYB excluded, averaged
$75 million, and the projects averaged $362 million in cost. This
should be compared against sub-projects financed under the first DYB
loan having an average cost of $14 million and an average Bank sub-loan
of $3.8 million.



- 24 -
(f) post-construction supervision of all projects (para 3.15);
(g) auditing arrangements (para 4.18);
(h) accounting (para 4.19);
(i) capital increases (para 5.04);
(j) eligibility criteria for sub-projects submitted to the Bank
for financing (para 6.03);
(k) Government allocation of sufficient funds to meet needs
of sub-projects financed by the Bank (para 6.04);
(1)  sub-loan interest rate of 12 1/2% and foreign exchange
risk (para 6.04);
(m) debt service coverage ratio (para 6.04).
7.02      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of $70 million to Devlet
Yatirim Bankasi, with Guaranty of the Turkish Republic, to be relent to
selected SEE sub-borrowers. An appropriate term for the loan is seventeen
years, including up to three years of grace, with an adjustable composite
amortization scheme.



TURKEY:  DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
BASIC DATA
(as of December 31, 1975)
Year of Establishment: 1964
Ownership
Turkish Government          TL 1,400.6 million (100%)
(Authorized capital TL 2,000 million)
Resource Position (Disbursement basis)
TL Million
Equity and Quasi-Equityl/                          3,578.2
Credit from Treasury                               1,195.3
DYB Bonds                                         17,831.0
Credits from the Central Bank                      7,068.9
Other Long-term Debts                              1,756.1
Total Long-term Resources                     31,429.5
Loan outstanding (Net of Provision                31,852.7
for Possible Loss)
Operations (TL Million)                                1973          1974          1975
Approvals of New Projects
Number of Projects                                    37            21             7
Amount                                            10,621.8       1,532.1      3,981.8
Commitments (Annual Tranches)
Number of Projects                                    64            64            53
Amount                                             4,468.5       4,832.4      5,973.2
Disbursements                                         2,823.3       5,291.2       6,892.5
Earnings Record
Profit before tax/Average total assets                 2.2           1.9           2.5
Profit before tax/Average net worth                   23.4          25.6          38.0
1/ Includes Central Bank deposits of TL 1,297.0 million which can be regarded
as quasi-equity.



1973         1974          1975
Financial Position
Total debt/Equity!/                                    4.9           8.3          8.4
Long-term debt/Equity 1/                               4.6           7.5           7.8
Reserves and Provisions/Portfolio outstanding          3.3%          2.7%          3.2%
Interest rates and charges
Loans before October 1974                      10.5%
Loans after October 1974                       12.5%
Commitment fee                                  0,75%X/
BASIC DATA ON BANK GROUP LOANS
A. Status of Bank Loans ($ million) as of December 1, 1976
Date of          Interest    Amount       Commit-    Disburse-    Out-
Effectiveness    Rate         of Loan    ments       ments         standing
1024-TU    9/30/74           7.25        40.0       38.3         14.6          14.6
B.  IFC Investments      none
1/ Central Bank deposits of TL 1,297.0 million are treated as equity
2/ Applicable only to loans financed by IBRD
ENENA/IC & DFC
December, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Brief Review of Industrial Sector
Structure
1.        Turkey has followed a system of a mixed economy since the 1930's.
At present the public sector accounts for about 50% of value added in manu-
facturing and mining and has a virtual monopoly in steel, petroleum refining,
fertilizers, petrochemicals, pulp and paper. The public sector accounted for
about 53% of industrial investment during 1972-75. 1/ Even in the private
sector, the Government can greatly influence manufacturing growth through a
combination of import restrictions and investnent incentives. The historical
reason why the Government is in industry is that the development of certain
basic fields is considered vital to the country; also, the Government invests
where the private sector is unwilling or unable to do so because of inadequate
financing, excessive risks, or low financial return.
2.        Industrialization has been given high priority over the last 15
years. Industrial growth averaged about 10.5% during the First Plan, 9.7%
during the Second Plan despite virtual stagnation in 1970, and so far 10.1%
in the Third Plan (1973-77). Industry has absorbed a growing portion of the
nation's resources, as the number and size of projects have been stepped up
both in the State and private sectors. The share of manufacturing in total
gross investment rose from 24% in 1962 to an estimated 42% by 1975. As a
result Turkey has acquired a very diversified industrial sector. However,
the growth of output and investment in industry has been accompanied by a
high capital-output ratio and a slow growth of employment. Employment in
industry increased to about 12% of total employment in 1975, compared to 8%
in 1962.
Industrial Development Policy
3.        The Five Year Plans have aimed at rapid industrialization as the
leading factor in sustained economic growth and as a means to absorb surplus
manpower from agriculture and reduce dependence on foreign aid. In the pur-
suit of these objectives, industrial development policy has emphasized import
substitution, often through capital intensive investment. The policy tools
have been high protection and generous incentives for domestically-oriented
industry. The main results of this policy have been threefold: fast growth
in industries catering to the home market, establishment of many industries
which cannot compete in the international market and, until recently, a slow
growth of industrial exports. Turkey has now achieved a high degree of self-
sufficiency. Industries such as cement, oil, refining, steel, fertilizers,
1/   Industry is comprised of manufacturing, mining, and power.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
paper and road vehicles have developed fast.  The possibility of import sub-
stitution has now become very limited, except in the area of semi-finished
and capital goods, where value added domestically is often obtained at a high
cost and the size of the domestic market is often smaller than the output of
economic sized plants. As a result of the import substitution policy and the
control system in external trade, the share of consumer goods in industrial
imports has fallen considerably and that of intermediate and investment goods
risen. By 1975, substantial import dependence existed only in machinery and
transport equipment and in basic metals and chemicals and fertilizers. To-
gether these groups accounted for over 70% of Turkey's industrial imports. 1/
4.        Inward-oriented policies initially led to slow growth of industrial
exports. Incentives for export oriented industries in the mid-sixties were
insufficient to offset the disadvantages of an overvalued currency, high costs
of imported and domestic inputs and insufficiently developed export channels.
The import substitution policy also led to the manufacturing of goods of low-
quality, and offered no encouragement to Turkish entrepreneurs to export their
products. During the Second Plan period and particularly after the 1970 de-
valuation, industrial exports increased sharply, from $237 in 1972 to $503
million in 1975.
5.        Industrial development policy also puts a strong emphasis on heavy
industries and advanced technologies as a base for future industrial growth.
Thus, projects for an aluminum smelter, a third integrated steel mill, a petro-
chemical plant, a diesel locomotive factory and a shipyard were promoted, in
some cases despite economic disadvantages. While leading to a rapid growth
of output, such a policy has resulted in the development of some industries
in which Turkey may not be able to compete freely with the EEC unless and
until greater efficiency can be introduced.
Protection and Incentives
6.        Various instruments are used for the protection of domestic indus-
try, including tariffs, other charges and taxes on imports, quota restric-
tions and absolute prohibition of some imports. To some extent these mea-
sures have caused costly import substitution and rather slow export growth
because of the relatively high profitability to produce for the home market.
Other effects of the control system have been to raise substantially the do-
mestic prices of imported goods, to cause delays which reduce production, and
to inflate inventories in order to protect against import uncertainties. This
is not a unique situation for a developing country. It is a result of the
development strategy of import substitution, the chronic shortage of foreign
exchange, and the State industrial sector whose large investments are partly
geared to non-economic goals.
7.        Export and investment incentives in Turkey include tax rebates for
exports, exemption from custom duties or their deferral for 2-5 years, sub-
sidized investment credits for export oriented production, and tax allowances
1/ Including petroleum products.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
for investment. Higher rates of incentives are offered for investment in re-
gions that are classified as underdeveloped. The total incentive package has
been considerable and has undoubtedly encouraged private investment in indus-
tries, particularly textiles, processed food, chemicals, metal products and
machinery, and transport vehicles. However, despite the extent of these in-
centives to industry, their cost and their distribution between sectors is
only partially known. The Government has not evaluated the effects of the
incentives in relation to its objectives, nor attempted to develop a system
which would achieve the desired objectives at least cost.



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Income and Frofitability of Major Industrial SEEs, 1972-197L4
Net Operating            Net Profit
Total Sales                Income               After Tax              Profit/Sales          Net Profit/Equity
1972   1973   1974      1972   1973   1974     1972   1973   1971       1972   1973   1974      1972   1973   1974
Agricultural Sector          ~~(------------------ TL Millions --------------------------)            (--------- % --------- 
Aigricultural Sector                                               T  ilos)                                      (
Turkish Sugar Company                3,194  3,708  2,809       100    108      95       73     82      75        2.3    2.2    2.7      17.0   13.0   10o.6
Foil Products Office                 2,061  3,238  4,683       -70    -63      23      -14      4      17        -       -      o.4       -      -      2.h
Meat and Fish Organization           1,079  1,033  1,359        13      15     12      - 4    -13       5        _       -      -         -      -      1.0
Agricultural Supply Office           1,546  3,033  3,874        65      97    -41       84    147      63        514    4.7    1.4       18.0   22.0    8.1
Milk Industry                           61      73     98      -8    - 5    -11        -12    - 8    -15         -       -      -         -      -      -
Wool and Mohair                         27      43     71        3       2      9        2       2      1        7.4    4.6   12.6        9.0    6,0    1.9
Feed Industry                          189    264    368         8      11     26        5      5       7        2.6    1.9    1.9        8.0    4.0    4.6
Sub-Total                          8,157 11,392 13,262       111    165    113       134    219    153
Mining and Power
Etibank                                817  1,310  2,029        66      74    -88      201    log   -116        26.9    6.1    -         100    5.0    -
TEK                                  2,o54  2,467  4,o6g       773    497    336       365     80      53       17.8    3.2    1.3        8.0    1.0    0.4
Sub-Total                          2,871  3,777  6,098       839    571    308       566    189    -63
Coal, Petroleum and Steel
Turkish Coal Corporation             2,167  2,119  4,054        86   -234   -847       -62   -335 -1,010         -       -      -         -      -      -
Turkish Iron Steel Mills Corp.       2,600  2,7b6  3,388       524    289  1,040       304      57    617       11.7    2.1   18.2       12.0    2.0   19.8
Turkish Petroleum Company            1,373  2,767 12,289       388    382  1,466       366    402  1,032        26.7   14.5    8.4       18.0   14.0    3.04
Petroleum Office                     2,822  3,869  7,535       - 2      65    384       36      35     56        1.3    0.9    0.7        6.o    4.0    5.0
Petrochemical Industry                 614    952  1,589        74    143    363        75    136    268        12.2   14.3   16.9       10.0   14.0   19.8
Sub-Total                          9,576 12,453 28,855    1,070    645  2,406        719    295    963
Manufacturing
Sumerbank                            3,061  3,486  7,513       285    309    571       108    145    208         3.5    4.2    2.8        4.0    5.0    3.0
Turkish Cement Industry Co.            828    900  1,190       150    - 4      62      110    - 7      48       13.3    -       4-0      14.0    -       55
Nitrogen Industry Co.                  574    574    896         7       3     80       20      23    101        3.5    4.o  11.3         2.0    3.0    9.7
Machinery Chemical Indus. Co.        1,518  1,547  2,083         49     82    204         3     26     65         0.2    1.7    3.1       -      -       4.2
Pulp and Paper Factories             1,422  1,773  2,665       143    185    404       -54    -23    134          -      -      5.0       -      -      15.5
State Supply Office                    339    594    837        Ul      13     67       20      31     45        5.9    5.2    5.4        8.0   11.0   14.6
Sub-Total                          7,742  8,876 15,184       645    588  1,388       207    195    601
TOTAILS                           28,398 36,498 63,399    2,665  1,969  4,215    1,626    898  1,654
I/  Excluding Transport and Communication SEs and Financial SEEs.                                                                                               L
4EMNA/IC & DPC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Financial Position of Major Industrial SEEs, as of December 31, 1974 -
Number of
Establishments,                                                                                   Long-Term
Factories and    Number of                                             L%n-Tern  Debt             Debt/Equity
Other            Participations  Total Assets   Equity         Total    DYB Loans  DYI's Share  Ratio
(TL mil.)   (TL Mil.)   (TL Mil.)  (TL Mil.)         X
Agricultural Sector
Turkish Sugar Company                                       10            6,461          709         2,834       540         19           3.99
Soil Products Office                                         6            7,856          723           331        -                       0.46
Meat and Fish Organization                 110                             1,479         503           292        90         31            0.58
Agricultural Supply Office                 2                 7             5,342         775             2        -          -             0.00
Milk Industry                              4                 5               483         387            12        -          -             0.03
Wool and Mohair                                              2                87          53             1        -          -             0.02
Feed Industry                                               14               369         151           113        18         16           0.75
Sub-Total                                                              22,086        3,301         3,585       648        18            1.08
Mining and Power
Etibank                                   13                18           11,362        2,914         3,928     2,199         56            1.35
TEK                                                          9           23,896       14,370         6,472     2,392         37            0.45
Sub-Total                                                              35,258       17,284        10,400     4,591         44           0.60
Coal, Petroleum and Steel
Turkish Coal Corporation                   6                 2            3,910          358         1,458     1,171         80            4.07
Turkish Iron Steel Mills Corp.             3                 4           12,123        3,109         6,972     2,504         36            2.24
Turkish Petroleum Company                                   11            6,090        3,397         1,095        945        86            0.32
Petroleum Office                                             5            3,281        1,115           429         95        22            0.38
Petrochemical Industry                     1                 1            4,024        1,355         1,795     1,375         77            1.32
Sub-Total                                                              29,428        9,334        11,749     6,090         52            1.26
Manufacturing
Sumerbank                                 30                19           11,551        7,044         1,057       640         61            0.15
Turkish Cement Industry                    3                17            1,826          871           568       431         76            0.65
Nitrogen Industry                          3                 4            2,614        1,040           996        752        76            0.93
Machinery Chemical Indus. Co.             14                 9            3,369        1,546           486        264        54            0.31
Pulp and Paper Factories                  11                 4            3,619          867           990        909        92            1.14
State Supply Office                        2                 1              606          308           274         -         -             0.89
Sub-Total                                                              23,585       11,676         4,371     2,996         69            0.37
4,091       1,946           728        500        69            0.37
TOTALS                                                                110,357       41,595        30,105    14,331         48            0.72
1/ Excluding Transport and Communication SEEs and Financial SEEs.
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKAST
Key-Figures of Major Industrial SEEs. 1971-1975
Fixed Assets (Net)                    Fixed Investment Made Per Year                       No. of Eaployees
1971    1972    1973    l974V/  19751/       1971    1972    1973    L974L/  l97532       1971    1972    1973    19742/  197532
Agricuitural sector                       (--------- TL Millions ----         )        (--------- TL Millions -----------)          (----------- Thousands ------         )
Turkish Sugar Company                   728      817     982   1,702   3,519          52      92      200     533     590         9.1     9.1       8.9    9.1      9.3
Soil Products Office (TMD)              634     667      680     708     768           7      23       14      21      65         5.6     5.5       5.5    5,5      5,6
Meat and Fish                           247      305     417     524      940         36       47     119     212      325        4.4      4.9      5.2    5.9      6.4
Agricultural Supply Office               83       94     125     186      238          9       11      20      67      191        3.7      309      4.3    4.7      5,8
Milk Industry                            82      108     162     295      440          7       33      58      81      130        0.5      0.5      o.6    0.7      1.0
Wool andd 4ohair                          3        4       6      13       22          -        1       -       -       -         0.1      0.1      0.1    0.2      0.2
Feed Industry                            63      68       70     201      292         1D       11       5     101       62        0.3      o.6      0.6    o.6      1,0
Tea Corporation                          -        -      403     458     629           -        -      70      77      252         ^        -       5.3    8.8      9.2
Mning and Power
Ftibank                               2,281   3,516   4,881   6,597   8,415          979   1,386   1,577   1,531   1,500         17.8    21.3      23.9   25.6    25.3
TFX                                   6,922   7,422  11,085  12,822  24,406        1,164   1,307   1,630   3,225   4,083          6.2      6.8      7.8    8.7      9.3
Coal, Petroleum and Steel
Coal Corporation                      1,332   1,667   1,918   2,511   3,982          277      392     407     704   1,050        48.4    49.3      51.7   51.0    53,8
Iron and Steel                        1,613   4,372   6,454   8,842  11,679          902   2,466   2,195   1,773   2,533         13.5    13.6      1603   22.9    21.9
Petroleum Company                     2,235   2,487   2,619   3,015   3,997          669      665     624   1,594   5,a46         4.4      4.8      5.5    5.7      n/a
Petroleum Office                        341      370     448    n/a      n/a          29       55      88      110     125         5,2     5.2      5.4    5.5      5,3
Petrochemical                         1,224   1,594   2,101   2,594   3,109          380      630     618     564      510         2.3     2.5       2.5    2.5     2.5
Menufacturing
Sumerbank                             1,054   1,139   1,312   1,554   2,424          124       45     271      353     580       40.1    40.8       41.6   44.8    46.3
Turkish Cement                          691      709     748   1,054   1,513          77       88     108     331      280        5.7      6.o      6.2    6.2      6.2
Nitrogen                                817      B39     856   1,096   1,805          59      136     184      237     441         3.9     4.3       4.5    4.8      5f.9
Machinery and Chemical                  756      870     935   1,023      941        165      163     126     139      245       15.4    16.1       16.5   17.1    1907
Pulp and Paper                        2,069   2,014   1,973   2,119   3,165          250      109     128      278     846         9.0     9.2       9.3    9.5      9.5
State Supply Office                      71       69      70      74      137          2        2       4       7       36         1.0     1.0       1.0   1.1      1.3
1/  EXcluding Transport and Communicatiorl SEES and Financial SEEs.
/ Prelininary Estimates
3/ Program
34ENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Summary of DYB's Statutes and Regulations
1.        DYB has no formal policy statement.  It is subject to Law 440 con-
cerning SEEs and Law 441 which established DYB and sets forth the Articles of
its Statutes. In addition, the Council of Ministers approved DYB's "Regula-
tions" in July 1974 which amplify the provisions of Law 441. Law 441 and
DYB's Regulations constitute in effect a Statement of Policy, and the most
important aspects are summarized below.
2. Functions
(a)       DYB is to make available to SEEs the credit needed for their proj-
ects and to furnish guarantees when necessary for the same purpose. However,
DYB cannot hold equity participations in partnership with public or private
enterprises, corporations or individuals (all shares and real estate acquired
by DYB in the collection of debts must be disposed of as soon as possible).
(b)       DYB, in cooperation with SEEs, determines which projects are to be
financed after they have been approved in the annual investment and financial
programs. DYB finances a portion of the approved projects which the SEEs
cannot finance by their own or other resources. For any credit which shall
be provided by DYB, but cannot be provided by DYB's resources, the necessary
funds will be made available to DYB by the Ministry of Finance.
(c)       DYB is to assist the SEEs in project preparation and appraisal, to
hold seminars and courses on this topic, and to work jointly with the SPO--
if so requested--on SEE projects which will be included in the five year
development plan and the annual programs. Furthermore, DYB assists in the
deliberations concerning SEEs in the preparation of the annual investment
and financial programs.
(d)       DYB guarantees domestic credits for projects financed partly by
foreign credits and guarantees the timely payments of the installments due
to foreign creditors. DYB is authorized to make studies to determine the
financial situation of SEEs for which it provides guarantee.
3. Resources
(a)       The internal resources of DYB are its capital, statutory reserves
and other reserves and provisions. External resources are the amounts accru-
ing to the Credit and Amortization Funds, credits and advances from the
Treasury and Central Bank, credits obtained by DYB from domestic and foreign
financial institutions (under the guarantee of the Treasury when necessary) 1/,
deposits from the SEEs, and other resources to be secured by laws and decrees.
1/   This part of DYB's statutes implies that DYB is empowered to borrow with-
out Treasury guaranty, although this is not envisaged in the near future.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(b)       Additionally, under the Ministry of Finance guarantee, DYB is
authorized to borrow by issuing bonds without being restricted by its capital.
The bonds of DYB enjoy all rights, privileges and exemptions granted to the
Government. The amount invested each year in DYB bonds is indicated in the
annual investment and financial programs. The funds to be invested in DYB
bonds are to be appropriated from (i) resources of the Government Employees
Retirement Fund, Social Security Fund and other agencies; and (ii) financial
surpluses of SEEs.
4. Eligibility Criteria for DYB Financing
(a)       SEEs which are covered by Law 440 are eligible to receive DYB credits.
SEE joint ventures which are not covered by Law 440 but have more than half
their capital owned by one or more SEEs and/or the State may also receive DYB
credits.
(b)       DYB financing must be for investment of physical and intangible fixed
assets and can include major repairs and replacements which increase the eco-
nomic value of the fixed assets.
(c)       The application for each credit can be filed with DYB only after
the approval of the responsible authorities (SPO, the Planning Council and the
Council of Ministers) as to the project's technical and economic eligibility
and financial requirements.
(d)       The economic, technical, and financial studies describing the proj-
ect must be attached to the credit application to DYB. 1/ The contents of
these studies are described in detail in Article 14 of DYB's Regulations, of
which the most important are:
(i) Economic Studies: Market research; development of domestic
demand; regional distribution of demand; export possibilities;
possibilities for obtaining the inputs required for the plant;
input prices; study of the price trends of the goods to be
produced and of the services to be rendered; the price policy
which will be implemented and future forecasts; economic analy-
sis of of the site and the capacity of the plant; the benefit
to be derived to the national economy; additional assets it
will create; its effects on employment and balance of payments;
alternatives, if any, to the proposed project and a brief sum-
mary of reasons for alternative chosen.
1/   This is interpreted to mean, in effect, that DYB is only supposed to
finance bona fide projects suported by studies, not the requirements
of SEEs for general working capital loans which are unrelated to an
underlying project and which are not appraised.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
(ii)  Technical Studies:  Analysis of the site and plant capacity,
from technical standpoint; alternative production techniques
and reasons for selecting the alternative; technical know-how,
patent and consulting engineering services; construction prob-
lems and an estimate of the cost of construction; auxiliary
building; source of energy; assembling; beginning the opera-
tion and training the personnel; estimate of the number of
workers and personnel needed for each wage category and their
wages.
(iii)  Financial Studies:  Total costs of project; fixed and working
capital; financing plan; pro forma financial projections cover-
ing period from date project starts operations to the end of
its economic life; profitability of the project and debt
servicing capability.
5. Evaluation of Projects
(a)       DYB's experts evaluate projects from a financial point of view, in
principle, and must make a recommendation to DYB's Board within three months.
If there are errors or deficiencies, the project is returned to the SEE for
correction or completion. If the SEE and DYB fail to agree, arbitration is
sought according to established guidelines.
(b)       The project must be economically feasible and generate a cash flow
adequate to repay installments on DYB's credit, within the most favorable
terms as determined by DYB's Board. If the repayment ability of the project
is questionable but the project is in an underdeveloped region, DYB may still
extend the credit provided it is guaranteed by the Treasury.
(c)       The terms of DYB's credit are determined by DYB's Board on the basis
of the evaluation results and resources available for financing the project.
The interest rate charged is determined within the limits set by the Ministry
of Finance.
6. Project Implementation
(a)       A loan contract is signed by the SEE for each credit extended.  DYB
disburses against documents, though it can make advances if documents are sub-
mitted within three months.
(b)       DYB supervises project construction to see that the loan contract
is followed; if not, disbursements can be stopped with Ministry of Finance
approval.
(c)       DYB receives periodic reports and its experts have the right to visit
the project and obtain needed information. If warranted, DYB's supervision
reports may be sent to the Ministry of Finance, SPO, the SEE and its related
Ministry. DYB and SPO may collaborate in supervision activities.



ANNEX 6
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF
THE STATE INVESTMENT BANK
BOARD OF DIRECTORS                         BUREAU OF THE
(5)            |BOARD OF DIRECTORS (1)
GENERAL DIRECTOR
(PRESIDENT OF THE                                 SECRETARY (2)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS)
[ LEGAL ADVISER I1l                                                                    CONTROL OFFICE |)
ASSISTANT             l                                    SGENERAL                                             ASSISTANT
GENERAL|DIRECTOR                                                                                                GENERAL DIRECTOR
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                                             RESOURCE DIVISION (11)
GROUP (13)                                             PERSONNEL OFFICE (6I                                           1 Manager
1 Chief                                               1 Manager                                                3 Experts
9 Experts                                             3 Officers                                               6 Officers
3 Assistants                                           2 Typists                                                1 Typist
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                                                                             CREDITS DIVISION 1171
AND RESEARCH                                            OFFICE OF CORR.                                             1 Manager
GROUP (9)                                               AND ARCHIVES (6)                                            1 Assistant
1 Chief                                                 4 Officers                                             3 Experts
7 Experts                                               2 Typists                                              10 Officers
1 Assistant                                                                                                    2 Typists
ACCOUNTING DIVISION 121)
TGOFFICE OF SUPPLIES (37)                                        1 Manager
TECHNICAL GROUP (St                                          5 Officers                                              1 Assistant
1 Chief                                               3 Drivers                                               2 Experts
4 Experts                                             3 Technicians                                           13 Officers
26 Orderlies                                            1 Cashier
3 Typists
SPECIAL APPRAISAL
UNIT (5)                                                   LIBRARY (1)                                  Total Staff: 148
3 Experts                                                1 Officer                                  of which management 3, ('t
I 3 Experts        l                                     1 Officer         g                        experts 40
1 Officer stlas per June 30, 1976)
l    1 Assistant        lll
TYPING POOL (15I
1 Chief
5 Typists
World Bank-16378
EMENA I IC & DFC
SEPTEMBER, 1976



ANNEX 7
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Statement of Resources as of December 31, 1975
(TL Million)
Amount      % of
Resources                                   Outstanding   Total
I.  Equity & Quasi-Equity
Share Capital Paid-in                            1,400.6         4.4    No dividends paid.
Authorized share capital: LT 2.0 billion.
Reserves and Surplus                               575.0         1.8    Legal reserves and excessive provisions
which are considered surplus.
Net Interest to be Converted
into Share Capital                               305.6        1.0    Related to the Special Funds Credits.
Permanent Central Bank Deposits                  1,297.0         4.2    Made available to DYB from a certain
percentage of the deposits made by banks
Total                                          3,578.2        11.4     with the Central Bank as reserve requirements
B Rich can be regarded as quasi-equity.
II. Borrowed Resources
Credits from Treasury                            1,195.3         3.
DYB Bonds:                                      17,831.0        56.7    Bonds are to be sold to pension funds of
of which,                                                              public sector employees with guarantee
of Treasury and on tax free.Maturity of
recent issues is 20 years.
Bonds Outstanding Issued
Through 1967                   2,104.1                              Variable rates up to 6j0%.
Bonds Outstanding Issued from
1968 to Aug., 1970             3,006.0                              6.5%
Bonds Outstanding Issued from
Sept., 1970 to June, 1974    6,708.0                                9.0%
Bonds Outstanding Issued from
July, 1974 to Dec., 1975       5,571.0                             11.0%
IFF Resources Taken Over 1/                        471.8         1.5    Counterpart funds of Turkish borrowings
from Fed. Rep. of Germany, OECD and
USAID.
IBRD Borrowings 1/                                  85.3         0.3    Loan 1024-TU at an interest rate of
7.25%.
Credits from Central Bank                        7,068.9        22.5    Made available to DYB from a portion
of the funds deposited by banks
with the Central Bank as the re-
serve requirements.
Deposits against Bonds to
be Issued                                      1.199.0         3.8
Total                                         7,851. 3       88.6
Grand Total                                  31,4295 
1/ Foreign currency resources.
EMENA/IC & DFC
September 1976



ANNEX 8
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements of Term Loans, 1970-1975
(LT million)
1970       1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
Approvals of New Projects
Number of Approvals           11          6           8          37          21           7
Amount of Approvals         202.9       238.0    2,962.0   10,621.8    1,532.1    3,981.8
Foreign currency            -           -           -           -           -        279.3
Local currency            202.9       238.0    2,962.0   10,621.8    1,532.1    3,702.5
Commitments (Annual Tranches)
Number of Commitments         74         36          33          64          64          53
New projects               11           6           8          37          21           7
On-going projects          63          30          25          27          43          46
Amount of Commitments    1,989.4    1,233.0    2,096.9    4,468.5    4,832.4    5,973.2
New projects             n.a.        n.a.        n.a.       1,670.1       395.2      183.0
On-going projects        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.      2,798.4    4,437.2    5,790.2
Disbursements               1,483.8       968       1,994.8    2,823.3    5,291.2    6,892.5
Foreign currency              -           -           -           -           -          85.3
Local currency            1,483.8       968       1,994.8    2,823.3    5,291.2    6,807.2
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Sectoral Distribution of Term Loan Approvals, 1973-1975
(LT Million)
1973                        1974                       1975                           1973-1975
Number of                  Number of                   Number of                   Number of                  Share cd
S e c t o r s                     Projects    Amount          Projects    Amount         Projects    Amount           Projects   Amount        Total (7.)
I. Mining                                   6            874.2          4           518.6           1         1,100.0          11        2,492.8       15.7
II. Manufacturing                           17         1,473.1          17         1,013.5           6         2,602.5          39        5,089.1       32.1
A. Consumer Goods
1. Textile and clothing              -             -             5            309.0          -             -              5          309.0       2.0
2. Food                              6            263.9          -             -             2         1,321.0           8         1,584.9      10.0
B. Ind.that Prod.Intermed.Goods
3. Fertilizer                        1            317.5          -             -             -             -              1          317.5       2.0
4. Pulp and paper                    2            667.8          -             -             1            920.0           3        1,587.8      10.0
5. Iron and steel                    -             -             -             -             1            178.5          1           178.5       1.1
6. Forestry products                  -            -             1             12.8          -             -              1           12.8       0.1
7. Cement                            1             37.5          -             -             _             _             1            37.5       0.2
8. Plastic processing                -             -             1             94.3          -             -              1           94.3       0.6
9. Chemicals                          3            85.6          3            402.7          1            138.0           6          626.3       4.0
10. Non-ferrous metals                 _            -              1            11.5          -             -              1           11.5        0.1
11. Petro-chemicals                    _            -             -             -              1            45.0           1           45.0        0.3
12. Ceramics                           -            -              2             7.8           -            -              2            7.8        0.1
13. Petroleum products                 2            72.4           1           108.7           -            -              3          181.1        1.1
14. Leather                            1            15.2           -            -              -            -              1           15.2        0.1
C. Ind.that Prod.Investment Goods
15. Shipbuilding                       1            13.2           -            -             -             -              1           13.2        0.1
16. Machinery                         -             -              1            21.8           -            -              1           21.8        0.1
17. Metallic goods                     -            -              2            44.9           -            -              2           44.9        0.3
III. Transportation                           9         1,225.7           -            -              -             -             9        1,225.7        7.7
1. Sea transportation                8            510.7          -             -             -             -              8          510.7        3.2
2. Railway transportation            1            715.0          -             -             -             -              1          715.0       4.5
IV. Telecommunication                        1         2,768.0           -            -              -             -             1         2,768.0      17.5
V. Energy                                   4         4,280.8           -             -             -             -             4         4,280.8      27.0
Total                                   37        10,621.8          21         1,532.1           7         3,702.5          64       15,856.4      100.0       %
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



ANNEX 10
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Breakdown of DYB Loans by SEE's as of December 31, 1975
(LT Millions)
Working
Investment      Capital     Credits Under
Credits      Credits      Special Laws      Total
Machinery and Chemical Industries Co.       285.5          -                191.8       477.3
Etibank                                   2,938.7          69.2            372.8      3,380.7
Turkish Electricity Board                 3,867.5         126.8          1,316.2      5,310.5
Iller Bankasi                               182.7         412.5             -           595.2
State Railways                              888.2         171.4            343.5      1,403.1
Meat and Fish Organization                  141.7          -                50.0        191.7
Sumerbank                                   918.5          50.0            140.4      1,108.9
Maritime Bank                               212.2         105.4            272.4        590.0
Turkish Sugar Company                       492.2         236.9          1,261.3      1,990.4
Turkish Cement Industry Co.                483.4           -               167.5        650.9
Post, Telephone, Telegrams               1,405.6           50.0             36.0      1,491.6
Turkish Coal Corporation                 1,426.0          161.7             82.2      1,669.9
Nitrogen Industry Co.                      831.7           62.4            126.9      1,021.0
The State Pulp and Paper Company         1,392.4           52.9            120.4      1,565.7
Turkish Iron and Steel Mills Corp.       4,024.6          145.4          1,338.8      5,508.8
Petroleum Office                            85.8           -               105.0        190.8
Turkish Petroleum Company                  536.8           -               180.0        716.8
Petrochemical Industry                   1,493.8           -               131.5      1,625.3
Ankara Cement Co.                           10.5           -                -            10.5
Maritime Bank Cargo Lines                  738.6           35.0             49.0        822.6
Tourism Bank                                 6.0           -                -             6.0
Feed Industry                               20.6           -                -            20.6
Turkish Airlines                            -              -               246.5        246.5
Turkish Radio and Television                -              -                70.0         70.0
I.G.S.A.S.                                 426.0           -                -           426.0
Agricultural Institution                    -              50.0            996.3      1,046.3
Karadeniz Copper Corporation                -             140.0             -           140.0
Total                              22,808.8        1,869.6          7,598.3    32,276.7
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Maturity of Term Loan  A  roved, 1973-1975
1973                            1974                            1975                             1973-1975
Number of  Amount               Numbier of   Amount                             u Number of   Amount  L  Number of   Amount  %
Term           Projects                        Projects                        Projects                         Pro.iects
1 - 5 years           4         259.8    2.4          2           7.8    o.5          1           45.0    1.2          6         312.6    2.0
6 - 7 years           9         924.2    8.7          6         192.8   12.6          -           -        -          15       1,117.0    7.0
8 - 10 years         5        1,182.7   11.1          6         206.4   13.4          1          178.5    4.8         12       1,567.7    9.9
11 - 13 years          9       1,534.4   14.4          3         636.4   41.5          -           -        -           9        2,17008   13.7
14 - 16 years         10       6,720.7   63.4          4         488.6   32.0          4        1,558.5   42.1         18       9,768,3   61.6
17 - 19 years          -                  -            -            -      -           1        1,920.0   51.9          1          92000    508
T c t a 1             37      10,621.8  100.0         21       1,532.1   00.0          7        3    0    0.           65       15856.4  loo.o
ENA/IC & DFC
FepteTiber, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Size Distribution of Term Loans Approved  1973-1975
\tiz mllilon)  
1973                            1974                           1975                            1973-1975
Number     Amoint     %       Number      Amount     %       Number      Amount     %       Number      Amount         %
Less than LT 10 million        1          2.3     -           3         15.0    1.0          -          -       -           4          17.3        0.1
LT 10 - 30 million             2         54.3    0.5          8        131.5    8.6                -            -          10         185.7        1.2
LT 31 - 50 million             9        365.5   3.4           1         45.1    2.9          1          45.o   1.2         11         455.5        2.9
LT 51 - 70 million             -          -       -           1         5900    3.9          _    -              -          1           59.0      04
LT 71 - 90 million             2        161.0    1.5          1         91.0    5.9          -          -        -          3          252.0       1.6
LT 91 - 110 million            1         93,0    0.9          1         94.3    6.1          -          -        -          2          187.3       1.2
More than LT 110 million      22      9,945.8  93.7           6      1,096,3   71,6          6       3,657.5  98.8         34      13.699,6       92.6
T o t a 1                  37     10.621.8  100.0         21      1.532.1  100.0          7       3,702.5 100.0         65      15,856.4      100.0
FMENA IC & DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY:  DEVLET YATIRIM BAt'KASI
Geographical Distribution of Term Loan Approvals. 1973-1975
'.T Millron)
1973                              1-974                             1975                           19  -1975
Number or                         Number of                        Number of                          Number or
Projects     Amount      %        Projects     Amount      %        Projects     Amount      %        Projects      Amount 
Regions
Marmara                   10          648.0    6.1           2            7.8    0.5           2          965.0   26.1          14        1,628.9   10.2
Istanbul                 2           28,5    0.3           -            --                   -                    -            2            8.5    0.2
Kocaeli                  2          132.4    1.2           1            5.0    0.3           1           45.0    1.2            4         182.4    1.2
Bursa                    2          354.8    3.4           -            -       -            --                   -            2          354,8    2.2
Balikesir                3           85.6    0.8           -            -       -            1          920.0   24.9           4        1,005.6    6.3
Sakarya                  1         -46.7    0.4            -            -       _            -            -        -           1           46.7    0.3
Bilecik                  -            -       -            1            2.8    0.2           -            -        -           1            2.8      -
Aegan                      5        2,531.8   23.8           4          177.3   11.6           1          971.4   26.2           10       3,680.4   23.2
Kutahya                  4       1,978.8   18.6            1           94.3    6.2           -            -        -            5       2,07314   13,1
Afyon                    1          553.0    5.2           -            -        -           1          971.4   26.2            2       1,524.4    9.6
Manisa                   _            _       _            1           59-0    3.9           _-                    -            1           59.0    0.3
Izmir                    -            -       -            1           11.14    0.7          -            -        -            1          11.4    0.1
Mugla                    -            -       -            1           12.7    0.8           -            -        -            1           12.7    0.1
Black Sea                  2          115.2    1.1           -            -                                                       2          115.2    0.7
Samsun                   1           75.4    0.7           _            _       _            _            _        _            1          75.4    0.5
Amazya                   1           39.7    0.4           _            _       _            _            _        _            1           39.8    0.2
Eastern Anatolia           2           77      0.7           2          226.3   14.8           -           _                                 304.2    1.9
Van                      1           36.5    0.3           -            -        -           -            -        -            1           36,5    0.2
Elazig                   1           41.3    0.4           1          2114.6   14.0          -            -        -            2         255.9    1,6
Erzincan                 -             -      -            1           11.7    0.8           -            -        -            1           11.7    0.1
Middle Anatolia            1          140.0    1.3           6          481.0       4           -       1.278.5   34.5            9        1,899.5   12,0
Eskishir                 1          140.0    1.3           1          390.0   25.5           -            -        -            2          530.0    3.4
Ankara                              -                      5           91.0    5.9           1          178.5    4,8            6          269.5    1.7
Sivas                    -                                 -            -       -            1        1,100.0   29.7            1       1,100.0    6.9
Mediterranean              4        1,633.9   15.4            2         278.8   18.2            2         487.6   13.2            8        2,400.3   15.2
Maras                    1        1,531.0   14.4           1           45.1    2.9           -            -        -            2        1,576.1   10.0
Hatay                    1           37.5    o.4           -            -        -           -            -        -            1           37.5    0.2
Burdur                   1           39.7    0.4           -            -        -           1          349.6    9.5            2          389.3    2.5
Adana                    1           25.7    0.2           1          233.7   15.3            -           -        -            2          259,5    1.6
Antalya                  -            -        -           -            -        -           1          138.0    3.7            1          138.0    0,9
South Eastern Anatolia    -             -        -            2         127.2    8.3                                              2          127.2    0.8
Mardin                   -            -       -            1          120.0    7.8            -           -        _            1          120,0    0.8
Adlyaman                 -            -        -           1            7.2    0.5            -           -        -            1            7.2      -
Other Areas               13        5,475.1   51.6           2          233.7   15.2                        -        -           15        5.708.8   36.0
TOTAL                     37      10,621.8  lOO.C           20        1.532.1  100.0                   23,702.5  100.0           64       15,856.4  100.0
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



Sal-PrJect F1,0-.o2i2  Appii-001-.
(211 .~ - TI 14.75 excec  for IBoM  -b--lo,  ant.to
R.b-  SE&                                     F.U~~~~~~6o88hlaab-   Mooi        f                                              exonietDOx,, llR Pint                                              N,oCron    Pt.)Cs    t           e      oott       ejno           rtnte         hah.Tot
A-1            Sa-ahOb,                 lOIRopa Ctote         Cotton  TonI    Maap-o-           60105                 2      3)  5?       .03        A  72      3,90                    10 (p)          12.5         2n,       o.&           2            00         Apil oIyt  nosel                           a
0e arooroone  (o.374)    (2, 576)   (1>~~~~~00,p   tOOS    (2,70)                                                                                                040           t       ...ae
~~~=Ubtl%h-t)                                                                                                                                                                               M~~~~~~~~~~~~~(3%  18) (5%
of oreu                (12,~~~II'95) (71:~27,   (3,oou)     3,05    (,10                                                                                                    190           saetd rstAtoan
?RetoblsAeity                             oeo                                                   (24%)         (2%1%)    ('50%),                                                                                                              ..       - i       -
0-3  000                        S.Deant  60    Theoa1                   to  eo        oisAn            0(117       8,00        0,00        1278       70,9.02                 13 (3)          22.5         56       151.0           RO                      ao1oi  ass,28to.otte  900
binb]ielnoot;                 ~~~~~ ~~for natho                (0,913)   (580         916            01j      517                                                                                                 1)0             oeaats(Ina   --'ost
solo, etc.                              (36%)         (10%)       50%)                                                                                                              OsanRiRs 3,0 s...loed)
,-4            Soot Sn,e8t  T.t.L       pth=y ta.             ratleo               a  rist       Maoah           1360,057    63.5091    (0,552       28,512    51.989        -          2  (3p          12.5        153        30.6          19           22         joa            Tot  ass, eltho   d-e  tese
lbRotulsbss,t)                ~~~~~~for pal-                    (9,22         1 o,5   (0,83LW      (1,333)   (3,612)                                                                                               h1Ot          T.5.A. sadRi  5atIt-taa Ron
ayl1n   oq.                                            (12%i        (21%)      (37%)                                                                                                              eresc  neit   a  saos
0-5            T4.t3a Rae               &-tar SWga            Sgar                RV.,e1oo      hod-r            81,810    86,097"     11,611       329,?       61,272      201,303    01 (3)           12.5         60       941.6          15            23         Uap-tt        hoT.a  dasstin  d-d, iaoaI-r
raidga4nn  A.0            5tR%(020    087                                                                                 08')       (373         oo        (5, 563)                                                                                 A1OR
(Tt.b%.h-t)                                                           ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~(21%)  (51%)  (5 9R(  (29%)
A-6            PatRO                   (e-t of ee             F.rit~ oheadoal    Moaatot    IspOs                136,700    65,557      3(7,72       1(5,10     3,,So.       -          U  (2(          12.5          7       4a2.8o0                     20         itasho        To          ..a oatt d-a)O  Ptr
Taint riatto                  op~~~~~~~~ -ero,                 (9,272)  (1, 716)     (2, 560)     (3,051)   (3,5(0)                                                                                               0070
black peoiet                                          (27%)         (33)       (1007
a-7            05A                      Oepe-                 PaIIP  -5  Faper    h0%aasoo      1R,o              90l,803   3L,915      20,041       j5,Soo    21,120                    a  3           12.5           3    1,090.0           95           i6         tagsnnr_1yo   o-ee                 aRi  d-d S
(9%)       (9)        (32%)                                                                                                              also      lesd OAOORqOtSR-t
,-80                                                                   ,-io  oelatsto  OltnO id.   Os.. Olsot    Sotl4 21, 19?    o,3   14L,055     130,08      3S0,I.a      -           5 (37          12.5         103       I39.3          OR           lbIoiC   nodnai  dn-d SnO-eo
n.teflo,rglosl                                     (11,997)   (3,726)~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (2,907)    (9,356)    (2658)                                                                                    197
(fenle.fl,MM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                           (~~~20%)     (60%y       i  
l,tatoor                              (12,,~~~~~~~~IL364(  (5,552)    (7,176  (2,90) (1,10)1883)aeill3y f5ear5neiss
(50%)        (21%)      (29$)                                                                                                               etnetetfrte
A-9             ,ntn                    Resbe  -srIr           C--do             tse Plati    lasaa              0919,586)   ,60 :                     ,5       5,           -          A  (             05         161 2/    77.             oo           Ot         IMO            -orl  t         dsteo  d.-,  O
Wsetniria                                fo13,631)  (1,330)                                                      73)   (3, 06                                                                                                                oa5.spr  eROn.  o., 
(httblid-set(altia(3%                                                                                         (o3%(     (27)                                                                                                                 slnsqahfrt
TaMed                                                                       0 965,97,   h%%~~~~~~~~~R78   5R3~~~~~171  705,000   568.661    106,315    -               -        1,683071  -95  ---5=1
9ln,6764  (.6.003)  (39.558)    (0.3)   3,2)             (8.263)
Rerc-q6,%                                                                                                                    9.8        58,3(7        79,563    56.066      10,631        -               -          1(7
(11,8007)   (1.672)   (U,9 6)       (8,393)   (3,0U31)      (356
(p9%)        (399)      (279)       (OR'
1!nY      OCe  Per 300 oreha  he RSlel3.OOd ho dilidleg tUe  esb.r of JeS. Pleti   flea,d onpitl.  -tR
-    the Ttter figr   s oat eia,0  MS tolls).
In In ao ,alt%,  Z.l Ia Rho a,npo  ~1epse   eOa ohiO  isMfr,d0p                       . ot-a d,t9g  en                pl,t of SO  se  nt
J/Thla nea       - t perj be .Peta  by  M0  Ii eassda.nl  nOn-  th. 160.00C to  f4-se  f-r 51l nOte
nea Pg tr   ti  -id at).O  RiSe0.2.
NONA/IC & Dea



ANNEX 15,
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Income Statement,1973 - 1976
(LT Million)
1973        1974         1975
Income                                        (---------Audited----------)
Interest on loans                           1,176.5     1,556.3      2,356.7
Other Interest, charges and
commisions                                   34.1        91.7         91.1
Profit from Foreign Exchange
Transactions                                  0.6         0.1         -
Portfolio Income                               25.4        19.2         51.9
Other                                           0.1          0.1         0.4
Total                                   1,236.7      1,667.4      2,500.1  -
Expenses
Interest on borrowings and bonds              860.3     1,211.4      1,678.0
Other charges and commisions paid               0.9         0.9          1.1
Losses from foreign exchange
transaction                                  31.5        28.6         41.7
Administrative expenses                         9.3         10.6        14.1
Personnel expense                             5.9         6.8         10.4
Depreciation                                  0.7         0.7          0.7
Other                                         2.7         3.1          3.0
Total expenses                                902.0     1,251.5      1,734.9
Profit before tax on income                   334.7       415.9        765.2
Tax on income                                 119.7       147.6        279.0
Profit after tax                              215.0       268.3        486.2
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Balance Sheets, Year-end 1973-1975
(LT Million)
1973         1974          1975                                                              1973          1978          1975
-(-     -  A u d i t e d -                                                                    - - - - Au di t e d
ASSETS
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Assets:
Cash                                        0.2           0.3          0.8                    Current Liabilities:
Central Bank                               25.3         6223         107.3                      Interest Payable                       476.3         692.8         927.2
Banks                                       5.0           -            -                        Other Accounts Payable                 100.6         317.6         795 9
Interest Accrued                          526,0        760.3       1,004.6                      Current Maturities of
Other Receivables                           3.8           3.7        ?92.3                        Long-Term Debts                    1,282,8       1,670.0       1,539.0
Bonds                                      64.6         25.3         131.1                      Tax Payable                            119.7         147.0         279,0
Current Maturities of Portfolio Loans 3,91C.5        4,1462.6      9,945.9
Accounts to be Liquidated                   C.6          0.7           0.6                      Total Current Liabilities            1,939.4       2,827.4       3,540.2
Unamortized Expenses                       0C1            0.1          0.1
Long -Tern Debts:
Total Current Assets                   X,536.1       5,3150b      i,IJ82 .5                      Credits fro  Treasury               1,185.(       1,846/.1      1,195.3
DYE Bonds                          11,079.4      18,417.1      17,831.0
Portfolio Investments:                                                                            IFF Resources Taken Over               664.2         568.7         471.8
investment Credits                     12,935.8     17,120.1      22,806.8                      IBRD Borrowings                           -            -            85.3
Workirng Capital Credits                2,823.2      2,756.3       1,869.6                      Credits from Central Bank                 -        6, l33.9      7,068.9
Credits under Special Law                 175.3      6,548,4       7,598.3                      Deposits agains DYB Bonds to be
Portfolio Investments (Gross)       15,934.3      26,424.8      32,276.7                        Issued                                             250.0       1,199.0
Less:  Current Maturities of                                                                  Total Long-Term Debts (Gross)       12,923.6      22,837.4      27,851.3
Portfolio Loans              (3,910,6)    (4,462,6)    (9,946.0)                       Less:  Current Maturities of
Less:  Accounts to be Liquidated   (    0.6)    (   0.7)    (    0.6)                                 Long-Term Debts             (1,242.8)    (1.670.0)    (1.939.0)
Less:  General Provisions for                                                                 Total Long-Tenm Debts (Net)         11,65.7 l     21,167.4      2 12.
Possible Losses              (  179.6)    (  285.4)    ( 423.4)
Central Bank Deposits:                 1,296.9       1,297.0      1,297.0
Portfolio Investments (Net)          11,843.5     21,676.1      21,906.7                    Euity:
Paid-in Share Capital                1,166.3      1,231.6       1,400.6
Fixed Assets:                                47.2         83.7          81.5                       (Authorized LT 2 billion)
Reserves and surplus                   338,4 421.9                 575,0
Total Assets                          16,426.8      27,)35,6      33,830.7                      Net Interest Received and to
be Converted into Share Capital        -            90.3        305.6
Unappropriated Earnings                                              -
Contlingecies                                 -            _           100.1                      Total Equity                         1,508.7       1,74T8       2,281.2
Managed Fonds on behalf of
Ministry of Finance                        _ _                     6,255.0                    Total Liabilities and Equity          16.426.8      27,035.6      33 0.7
Contingencies                              -             -           100.1
Managed Funds on behalf of
M      try of Finance                                    _        6,255.0
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



ANNEX 17
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Source and Application of Funds, 1973-1975
(TL Million)
Sources                                      1973         1974         1975
Net profits before provisions and taxes  334.7       417.3           765.1
Depreciation                                 0.7        0.7            0.7
Loan collections                         1,148.9   1,523.7         2,086.9
Borrowings                               3,111.7   3,985.8         4,858.4
IBRD                                          -         -             85.3
Bond sales on portfolio                     23.4      61.2            30.3
Share capital increase                        -         --
Documentary tax                             29.2      72.4            94.6
Sale of treasury bond                      482.2        -           330.6
Bonds redeemed by treasury                   4.0       4.0            3.8
Other                                        0.3      26.6            4.9
Cash on hand, beginning of the year         53.1      30.5            62.6
5,188.2  6,122.2          8,323.2
Applications
Disbursements                            4,247.7   5,291.3         6,892.6
Repayment of borrowings                    478.7     571.0           683.7
Bond purchases on portfolio                304.0       0.7             0.5
Purchase of treasury bonds                    -          -           395.0
Purchase of fixed assets                     2.0       0.2             0.1
Taxes                                       87.9     131.5           162.1
Documentary tax                             25.2       64.9           79.4
Other                                       12.2         -             0.1
Cash on hand, end of the year               30.5       62.6          109.7
5,188.2  6,122.2         8.323.2
EMENA/IC & DFC
December, 1976



ANNEX 18
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Financial Indicators, 1973-1975
1973       1974         1975
Profitability Indicators
Net Profit as % of Average Net Worth                                15.0       16.5         24.2
Earnings before tax as % of Average Net Worth                      23.4        25.6         38.0
Book Value Share as % of Par Value                                129.0       141.6        162.9
Year of Operation                                                   10th       11th         12th
Operational Indicators
Gross Income as % of Average Total Assets                            8.3         7.7         8.3
Administrative Expenses as % of Average Total Assets                 0.06        0.04         0.04
Financial Expenses as % of Average Total Assets                      5.8        5.7          5.7
Administrative Expenses/Number of Professional Staff ($'000)   11.9            12.2         13.4
Volume of Approvals/Number of Professional Staff ($'000)   13,548.2    1,761.0           3,770.0
Average rate of interest on Portfolio Outstanding 1/                 8.5         9.1         9.8
Cost of Debt as % of Average Debt 2/                                7.0         8.0          7.8
Y'ear End Professional Staff                                         56          58           66
Financial Structure Indicators
Total Debt/Year End Net Worth3/                                     4.9         8.3          8.4
Long-term Debt/Year End Net Worth3/                                  4.6        7.5          7.8
Provision for Possible Losses as % of
Loans and Guarantee Portfolio                                     1.1         1.1          1.3
Debt service coverage ratio                                         1.7         1.7          2.0
Year End Total Assets (TL Million)                             16,426.8   27,035.6    33,430.7
Year End Share Capital and Reserves (TL million)                1,504.7    1,743.8       2,281.2
1/  Excluding interest or commission received for credits under special laws,
(Special Funds credits),un-programmed working capital loans,and the Managed Funds.
2/  Excluding resources used for credits under special laws (Special Funds credits),
un-programmed working capital loans and the Managed Funds.
3/  Central Bank deposits of TL 1,297.0 million are treated as equity.
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Analysis of Arrears in Excess of Three Months, 1973-1975
(Amounts in LT million)
1.  Arrears at the end of 1974 and 1975
Principal                                             Total              Total Principal
Outstanding        Principal and Interest in         Arrears as %          Affected as %
Year Ending         Number of      and affected          Arrears over 3 months          of Total Loans        of Total Loans
December 31,        Companies       by Arrears         Principal  Interest  Total         Outstanding           Outstanding
1974                 17              799.4             274.3      160.8   435.1            1.6                    3.0
1975                 22           3,551.4              225.5      335.5   561.0            1.7                   11.0
2. Position as of December 31, 1975
Principal                                             Total             Total Principal
Outstanding        Principal and Interest in        Arrears as Z          Affected as %
Age of              Number of       and affected         Arrears over 3 months         of Total Loans        of Total Loans
Arrears             Companies        by Arrears        Principal  Interest   Total        Outstanding           Outstanding
3 - 6 months              6              226.3              46.8        16.9    63.7           0.2                    0.7
6 - 12 months            16            3,325.1             178.7       318.6   497.3           1.5                   10.3
Over 12 months           -                -                   -          -        -              -                      -
Total               22           3,551.4              225.5       335.5   561.0           1.7                   11.0
FM1ENp IC & DFC
September, 1976



ANNEX 20
TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Projected Operations and Assumptions, 1976-1979
(LT million)
1976       1977        1978        1979
Approvals of New Projects           11,681       7,930      15,904       2,807
Commitments (Annual Tranches)        6,929       8,038      10,449     12,016
Disbursements                        6,236       7,234       9,404     10,815
(Assumptions)
Level of Operations
1. Approvals. Approvals of new projects for 1976 and 1977 are based on the
provisional lists of projects to be financed by DYB in 1977 and 1978. It
is assumed that the total volume of approvals for 1976 - 1977 is 110% of
total commitments during the same period reflecting the past experience.
2. Commitments. Total commitments are projected to increase about 15% during
the period except that in 1978 (first year of the third development plan)
it is assumed to increase by 30%.
3. Disbursements. It is assumed that 90% of annual commitments will be
disbursed during the year.
Income Statements
4. It is assumed that DYB's lending rate will be 12.5% for investment credits
and ordinary working capital loans. Interest rate for DYB's bonds would be
11%.
Balance Sheets
5. It is assumed that there will be no increase in working capital loans and
that credits under special law will decrease by LT 1500 million per annum
in 1978 and 1979. Loan 1024-TU (lst loan)will be disbursed fully by 1978
and the proposed loan will be disbursed 70% by 1979.
6. It is projected that there will be no increase in borrowings from Treasury
and Central Bank deposits.
7. It is projected that the amount of provisions for possible losses will be
2% of the total portfolio outstanding. Income tax and financial balance
tax are assumed to be 35% and 3%, respectively.
Source and Application of Funds
8. Loan collection rate will be 80%.
EMENA/IC&DFC
September, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Projected Income Statements, 1976-79
(LT Million)
INCOME                                                1975          1976         1977         1978         1979
(Actual)
Interest on loans                               2,356.7      2,767.0      3,408.0      4,189.0      5,039.0
Other charges and commissions                      91.1        700.0        700.0        700.0        700.0
Interest on bonds                                  51.9         16.0         16.0         16.0         16.0
Other                                               0.4          3.0          2.4          2.2          2.0
Total Income                              2,500.1      3,486.0      4,126.4      4,907.2      5,757.0
EXPENSES
Interest on bonds and borrowings                1,678.0      1,928.0      2,329.0      2,790.0      3,163.0
Other charges and commissions paid                  1.1        547.0        547.0        547.0        547.0
Losses from foreign exchange transaction           41.7         50.0         -            -            -
Administrative expenses
Personnel expenses                              10.4         17.0         32.0         48.0         68.0
Depreciations                                    0.7          1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0
Other                                            3.0          7.0         12.1         18.1         25.0
Total Expenses                             1,734.9      2,550.0      2,921.1      3,404.1      3,804.0
Profit before tax                                 765.2        936.0      1,205.3      1,503.1      1,953.0
Tax                                               279.0        355.0        458.0        571.0        742.0
Profit after tax                                  486.2        581.0        747.3        932.1      1,211.0
RATIOS
Total income/Average total assets                   8.3          9.8         10.2         10.9         11.5
Administrative expenses/Average total assets        0.04         0.07         0.11         0.14          0.18
Profit before tax/Average net worth                38.0         38.3         41.6         41.3         42.3
Book value share as % of Par Value Share          162.9        168.6        159.7        158.1        156.3
EMENA/IC & DFC
September, 1976



.L-      DVE   _AIIM  _KA3,A
frele-ted Rela- Sheets. 1926-1979
(LT Millio)
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979                                                              1975           1976            1977            1978             1979
(Actual)         9                Pr-----   P ected ----  -----------                                                                             ------------- -=P-e cd-----  ----
Current Assets:                                                                                                                 Current .iabilOries:
Cash Bud Ba-kn                                   107.8           100.0           100.0           100.0           100.0          Interest Payable                                  927.2         ] ,230.0        1,251.0          5,709.0         1,350.0
Interest Acrured                               1,004.6         1,210.0         1,380.0         1,530 0         1,650.0          Other Accounte. Payable                           76.2            365.0         1,000.0          1,O0S.0         1,15S.0
Otl-er Receivables                               292.4           300.0           300.0           300.0           300.0          Current Maarteria.  of
BReds                                            131.1           130,0           130.0           130.0            130.0          T Long-tee- Debta                              1,539.0         1,454.0         1,632.0          1a,53.0         1,988.0
tosenut MiaterSties of Partfolia Leaco         9,946.0         5,110.0         6,270.0          6,750,0        6,980.0          Tue Payable                                       279.0           355.0           458.3 3            1'7 4-7,.
Acor.ate to Be Liqu1d.std                          0.6             0.6             0.6             0,6              0 6
Total Cur.eut Areets                      11,482.5          6,850,6         8,180.6         8,810.6         9,160.6               Total Crreat Liabilitieu                  3,513.4          4,004.0         4,341.0         4,711 1          5,i3L.0
Port_oleo IOveetmauts:                                                                                                          Leno- tees Debts:
Isesat-nt CredIts                             2Z,808.8        27,440.0        32,410.0        38,370.0        44,783.0          Credit  fre Te rasory                          1,155.3          1.2830          I,IL  'o         1,281.0         1,300.0
Welrkio  Cepital Credit.                       1,869.6         1,800,0         1,800.0         1,8080,         1,800.0          DYE BRnds                                      17,031.0        24,092.0        24,9:. .         26,154.0        31,237.0
Creditt  under Sp-eiul La-                     7,598.3         7,600.0         7,600.0         6,100,0         4,610.0          IFF Reuo-ro-s tubes ever                          471.8           374.0            3   :33.0                        20.0
Partfolt  Iseratnats (Irsue)                32,276.7        36,840.0        41,810,0        46,270.0        51,183.Q          IBRD Borrowings                                    85.3           32D.D                            94.0          1,319.0
Less:  Current Stiturltoas of                                                                                                 CremOtt  free Ceasrul Bsuhs                     7,068.9         7,190.0         7.. C7                o          7,100.0
Poetfolie L-ns                      (9,946.0)       (5,110.0)       (0,270.0)        (6,750.0)       (6,980.1)         Depesits aguou.t DYb Bauda
Les:  Arr-,mtn te Bs Liquldated             (    0.6)            0.6)       9    0.6)       (    0.6)            0,6)          tc  be isoued                                  1,199.0         1,300.0         1, 4l0              .             .l500.0
Lnse:  Ge-eral Pr-eialons fur
Paseible Losses                     ( 423.4)        (  737.0)          836.0)       ( 925.0)         (1,024.0)         Tetal Leug-te- DOebtt (Groes)                 27,851.3        31,469.0         35,705..             1'.7       42,726.1
Portfollo Ievnstm"ents (Nes)               21,906.7        30,992.4        34,703.4        38,594.4        43,178.4          Less: C -renut Ksturitie-
of Lang-teem Debte                   (1,539.0)        (1,454.0)       (1,632 .,        1,8".7)         (1,988.0)
FPead Asats:                                        41.5            42.0            43.0            44,0             45.0         Total Long-tees Debt. (Net)                    26,312.3        30,05.30         34,073          :,    .         40,788.0
TOTAL ASS3TS                               33,430.7        37,885.0        41,927.0        42 049 2        52,384.0
- -T~L-M-SFTS  _13,110  L7 , IS 1.   41,91       Z                              Cast9sil Saul laeatst:                            1,297.0         1,297.0         1,2a             1,297.0         1,297.0
RATIOS
Paid-iO  Sha..  Capital                      1,401.6         1,447.0          1,811.0         1,300.0          2,S52.0
Loug-tern Debt/Eqaity (Central lank depoaitn                                                                                         I Tservan sne  Prd viousi.                     601.8            822.0         1,105.0         1,4)8.0          1,917.0
see trseted as Eqalty)                          7.8             7.8             7.5             7.0              6.3          NSt Interest ua-ei-vd te be
noenarind aite Share Capital                 303.            3.000            300.0           300.0           300.0
Prvsan   a   ...sOble  eun  s2o
Pro lrto fsor p ssiblv loseve av z of           1.3             2.        0             2.0             2.0      2.0           Tutr1 kq.ity                                  2,308.0         2,569.0          3,216.0         4,050.0         5,169.0
Dnbt San-vice Cavera6 (fPiecipnl, Interest
saud Other Chargeu)                             2.0             1.6             1.7             1.7              1.8                T2,t-ls  as4t 33,630 7                                  37,885.0         2_7 47,449.0                    52,384.0
EMEESAh(fC A DPC
September, 1976



ANNEX 23
TURKEY:  DEVLET YATIM  BANKASI
Projected Source and Application of Funds, 1976 - 1979
1976     1977        1978      1979
Sources
Net Income before Tax                        935    1,204       1,502    1,952
Depreciation                                   1        1           1         1
Loan Collections                           1,675    2,264       4,950    5,902
Bond Issue                                 1,545    4,667       4,211    4,369
IBRD Borrowings                              235      360         310       430
Other Borrowings                          2.559       _            -         -
6,950    8,496      10,974   12,654
Applications
Disbursements:
Foreign Currency - IBRD                   235       360         310       430
Local Currency                          6,001    6,874        9,094   10,385
Repayments:
Foreign Currency - IBRD                     -        15          31        55
Local Currency                             682      775         977    1,186
Tax                                          355      458         571       742
Changes in Working Capital                  (323)      14          (9)    (144)
6,950    8,496      10,974   12,654
EMENAtIC&DFC
December, 1976



TItRKEY  DEVLET YATIRIM HANKASI
Projected Pipeline for 1977-1978
(in TL 'oDo)
CaPital Cost                DYB Share
No.       Project Narn e               r       Fr  .             Sector                       Establ]ishement           Foreign Exchange         Total
1        Frgani Pyrite Roaster Plant            FTIBANK         Chemical Industry            Ergani BakiT Isl.            27,007                    74,314             58,500
'2       Bandirms 2ld Sodium Perborate Plant  A!IAANK           Chteical Industry            Bandirma 1oraks Ssl.         83,2(0                   250,000            206,000
3        Murgul Suiphuric Acid Plant           ETI ANK          Cheerial industry            Murgul. akir ITo.            88,950                   290,169            160,400
4   Bandtirma Lc  Acid Boric Plant    T'N5N01 ETooPK C      i.G industry            Bandira BAoraks Is].         n.a.                     43a,440            180,000
5        Ikmir Pereit Minie                    F.IIIBhK         chemisT  mAdc.tiy            fzlir Perlite                23,556                   131,835             30,000
6        Dalxocc  Art-paper Plant              SCKA             Papas icdaustry              DaLatan                      92,265                    168,723            40,00o
AKCadrijSil:itke Craft Pulp and i     Is ] Mil  SIKA   Paper Ind,, try              Akdeci-                   1,525,000                ,192,              1,623,000
oenlik Amo-ia Plant                   I5Z7T            Fortilloer                   Gen i1- Soletmesi           855,779                1,1.48,374            289,400
9        Concentrated Nitrate Acid and Aimorioia
HAghway Tanker                        ASIC             FertilizAr                   Ko_akhyc, 1Iscotesi          18,450                   71,?22              39,490
TI        Yarui- Ccnmplsx, BDr UUnit  xpanprs,  PETISM           Petuo-Chermdzal              Yaaimca                       9.646                   26,616              18,900
11       tKyac FCct-ry, Capsule Proiuct ion
IsI.praosec.ts                       AIE El            Cheracal Indwstry                                         I),U91                   19,352              11,900
17       IotMopsa-s aYid Triph.are KiD] Metcts    MEAK        lland MaChinery and
Productss-  Expansion                                  Fquipent MaieufcatAring                                  44,179                  102,593              51,900
3        Suourluh Sagar Facwsoy hispanusicn    TIEKER FB.       Food Industry                                             77,50o                  723,000             421,500
14        antd Sugar Factaray                   T.SEKER PB.      Food Indiotry                                            161,670                1,276,580             990,000
15        3rd Sugar Factory                     T.IEKFP FA.      Foo'd Industry                                           194,5'70               1,262,820              980,0CG
lk        Ankara MacAohi,-ry 2ar'ay  l  Ca         T.SEKER FHA  Machinery Manuf Itidricig Indoetry                         21,000                  110,000                85,000
17        30,000 DWo., 2 Motor-Oil TanrPar Tharrhaae  1.B. DEhNZ  Transportation                                          365,000                  367,470             115,000
NAKLIYAT
i3        Beypazari Lignite Expansion             v. K. I.       Mining                       Ortt AoadoIU Linyit         115,86                    471,776             359,000
19        Satellite Cormmunlcation               PIT             Transportation-                                           56,500                  143,660              140,000
Communication
20        Telex Exchtnges and Telitype Writers  FTT              Transportation - Corrmouicatisr                          270,720                   534,690             467,400
21        Iskenderun IrlSti-Steel, Ist Fxpansion T.DEMrR         Mining                       Iskenderun                4,506,019                 9,938,747           5,000,000
CELIK FB.
22        Izomir Textile Mill YLpansionl SoRCMRAANK              Textile Industry             IzCir Basma                  35,500                    48,800               8,OoO
23        Denizli Textile Mill Expansion
and Modernizotion                    SU1MPPPANK       Textile Lndustry             Izmeir Basma                 52,000                  175,000             100,000
24        Diyarbakir Machine Carpet Plant       SUJMFRiANK       Textile Industry             Yunlu Sanyii                 22,858                    34,093              10,000
25        Merinos Yarn Mill Fxpansion and        SUMER1ANK                                    Merinos                     110,000                   150,000              20,000
MNod emiLzation
Sub-Total   1-25                                                                                               2,364,374              RR3L_6,d1           __,455 3 90
EMENA/IC & DFC
December, 1976



TURKEY: DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Projeated Pipeline for 1977-1978
(in TL '000)
Capital Cost
Foreign                                     DYB
No.       Project Name                          SEE              Sector                       Establishment             Exchange                Total               Share
26        4th Fertilizer Plant                  AZOT             Fertilizer                                             1,885,763                4,830,3B9           2,000,000
27        Kastamonu Cigarette Paper Fac.        SEKA             Paper Industry                                           388,119                  672,351             350,000
28        Mugla-Yatagan Lignite Project         TKI              Coal Minning                 Garp Linyitleri Islet.      403,400                  943,875             500,000
29        Bursa-Orhaneli Lignite Project        TKI              Coal Ninning                 Garp Linyitleri Islet.      279,000                  727,000             450,000
30        Canakkale - Can Lignite Project       TKI              Coal Minning                 Garp Linyitleri Islet.      520,000                1,133,000             600,ooo
31        Iskenderun New Refining Plant         TPAO             Petroleum Products                                     4,410,000                8,100,000           2,500,000
32        Ipras Solvent  Separation             TPAO             Petroleum Products                                        93,000                  280,000             100,000
33        Ipras Parafine Separation             TPAO             Petroleum Products                                       300,000                  84o,ooo             200,000
34        Tractor Factory                       TZDK             Agric. Mac. and Equip.                                   650.000                1,000,000             200,0oo
35        2nd Coke Factory Renewal              TDCI             Iron and Steel Manufac.                                   66,415                  105,700              10,000
36        Diezel Motor Factory                  MKEK             Machinery Manufacturing
Industry                                                 413,300                  906,000            40o,ooo
37        Adiyaman Readywear Factory            SUMERBANK        Textile                                                   35,0O0                   75,0oo              10,000
38        Gaziantep Textile Machinery Plant    SUMERBANK         Textile                                                  200,800                  544,000              50,000
39        4th Sugar Factory                     TSFAS            Food Industry                                             58,000                  750,000             300,000
40       Cement Mill                            T. Cimento S.   Cement                                                     58,000                  114,000             60,000
41        Tyre Production                       PETKIM          Rubber Industry                                           136,778                  376,918             150,000
Sub-Total   26-41                                                                                            9,897,595               21,398,233           7,880,000
TOTAL         1-41                                                                                          18,261,969               43,545,900          19,335,390
EMENA IC & DFC
December 1976



ANNEX 25
TURKEY:  DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements -
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                    at end of Quarter (US$'000)
1977
March 31, 1977                                               500
June 30, 1977                                              1,000
1978
September 30, 1977                                         2,000
December 31, 1977                                          4,000
March 31, 1978                                             8,000
June 30, 1978                                             14,000
1979
September 30, 1978                                        22,000
December 31, 1978                                         30,000
March 31, 1979                                            38,000
June 30, 1979                                             46,000
1980
September 30, 1979                                        54,000
December 31, 1979                                         60,000
March 31, 1980                                            64,000
June 30, 1980                                             66,000
1981
September 30, 1980                                        68,000
December 31, 1980                                         70,000
1/ Estimated date of effectiveness is April 30, 1977; final date
for sub-project commitments is March 31, 197-9, and closing date
of loan is March 31, 1981.
Source; Mission Estimates
EMENA/IC & DFC
December, 1976



