Document of
3 J}QJUU              The World Bank
IOI O]FWICIIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2001-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE DEVELET YATIRIM BANKASI OF TURKEY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
SECOND DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI PROJECT
March 2, 1977
ThLs douamens ha a reDgerIdcti 1Dfbuneo and may be nsd by rejp§fienQs Olly tun Qe pieronmamee of
thetir ofBetal diufes. Ht coeunemn may noe ctberwase be isdlse'd wiboua Wirll Ikmh aihouiftflo.



Currency Unit                       Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1                                   TL 16.0
TL 1                                    US$ 0.0625
TL 1,000                                US$ 62.50
TL 1,000,000                            US$ 629500
Turkish Fiscal Year     =    March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
DYB               Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
EEC               European Economic Community
HCB               High Control Board
LDR               Less developed regions
LIBOR             London Inter Bank Offer Rate
SEE               State Economic Enterprises
SMLI              Small to Medium scale labor intensive industries
SPO               State Planning Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
FOR A SECOND DEVLET YATIRM BANKASI PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Turkey for the equivalent of US$70 million to help finance public sector
industrial subprojects. The loan would be repayable substantially in con-
formity with the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-
projects approved under the project, which would not exceed 15 years. The
interest rate on the Bank loan would be 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic
Memorandum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976.
3.        Despite an uncertain domestic political situation resulting in
frequent changes of Government since 1971 and, more recently, an international
recession, Turkey has succeeded in maintaining an impressive rate of economic
growth. GNP growth in real terms, in the period 1970-75 has averaged 7.8
percent annually. Industry, power, transport and construction were the
sectors contributing most to this growth rate. Due largely to a decrease in
agricultural production, reflecting poor weather conditions, the growth rate
dropped to 5.5 percent in 1973; it recovered to 7.4 percent in 1974, and
reached 8 percent in 1975, at a time when recession prevailed in many other
countries. The average growth of the past years compares favorably with the
targeted growth of 7.9 percent per annum during the Third Plan (1973-77).
Within the context of this rapid economic growth, however, the Government is
faced with problems which require the establishment of priorities as well as
of corrective measures. These include in particular (a) insufficient mobil-
ization of public resources; (b) high rate of inflation; (c) employment
generation problems; (d) deterioration in the balance of payments; and (e)
inadequate coordination among Government agencies in project implementation.
4.        The budgetary situation in the last decade has been dominated by
the relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Although tax revenues
have grown rapidly, increasing by an unprecedented 48 percent between 1974
and 1975, the increase has been insufficient to offset the rise in Government
expenditures and transfers. As a result, there is a continuing overall bud-
get deficit which increased from TL 6.6 billion in 1973 to TL 7.2 billion in
1975. As a consequence, Central Bank financing of the Treasury rose from TL
400 million in 1973 to about TL 4 billion in 1975. In 1972 and 1973, the
This document hu a rmtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Treasury introduced stricter control of current expenditures and succeeded
to some degree in shifting the sources of finance fcr the budget deficit
from the Central Bank to the sale of Government bonds to the public, which
nearly doubled from TL 3.6 billion in 1974 to TL 7.4 billion in 1975.
5.        The State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) play a major role in the
Turkish economy. They operate the nation's railway network, most of the
power system, and account for 40 percent of employment and half the net output
of mining and industry. The employment and sales revenue of SEEs have grown
steadily, and total turnover in 1975 was almost four and a half times the 1970
level. The functions and finances of the SEEs are discussed in more detail in
Part 111.
6.        The rate of domestic inflation has been high in recent years.    How-
ever, in 1975, domestic price increases slowed down markedly as measured by
both the wholesale price index (from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975)
and the GDP deflator (from 27 percent to 16 percent over the same years). In-
flationary pressures in Turkey have been partly fueled by growth in domestic
liquidity, which averaged about 27 percent per year during 1970-75. Other
contributing factors include increases in minimum wages, in agricultural
support prices for domestic and export products, as well as substantial in-
creases in import prices, particularly oil and its derived products. Measures
to reduce the growth of domestic liquidity, without discouraging investment
and growth, are essential to ensuring an ease in inflationary pressures. The
recent trend towards rapid increases in Central Bank financing of the public
sector, particularly of some of the SEE investment programs, however, needs
careful re-examination. In late 1974, the Government raised interest rates to
encourage private savings and long-term lending. The interest rate on medium-
term credit was raised from 12 to 14 percent and rates on time deposits up to
one year from 4 to 6 percent. A preliminary assessment indicates that in 1976
inflationary pressures have worsened, as the wholesale prices increased by 19
percent during the year. The restoration of domestic price stability, there-
fore, remains a key problem on which Government policy must be focused.
7.        Turkey's development strategy, as outlined in three successive five-
year plans, emphasizes investment in capital-intensive industries with its
consequent greater emphasis on growth of output through higher labor product-
ivity rather than on increased employment. As a result, the labor surplus,
including underemployment in agriculture, has doubled since 1962. It now
stands at two million, equivalent to about 13 percent of the labor force.
Until 1973, emigration of workers, especially to Germany, partially eased
the pressure on employment. Between 1965 and 1973, net emigration of workers
totalled about 450,000; but the recent economic slowdown in Europe consider-
ably reduced Turkish labor emigration from 136,000 in 1973 to only 20,000 in
1974 and 5,000 in 1975. With prospects of further net emigration of Turkish
labor to Europe reduced, at least in the medium-term, unemployment should be
a major concern of economic policy, and where appropriate, labor-intensive
production methods need to be emphasized in the formulaton of projects.



- 3 -
8.        The preliminary results of the 1975 census indicate a drop in the
growth rate of urban areas between 1970 and 1975, as compared to the period
1960-1970. This is partially attributed to the fruition of irrigation and
land development schemes. Speedy implementation of rural development programs
should continue to help slow the rural to urban migration and contribute to
the easing of unemployment in both rural and urban areas. However, even with
these measures, and faster growth than planned in construction and services,
unemployment will continue to be a significant problem.
9.        The Third Plan (1973-77) constitutes the first phase of Turkey's
long-term strategy for the period 1973-95 by which time Turkey is scheduled to
be fully integrated into EEC. The ultimate objective is to raise standards of
living by 1995 to those of Italy in 1970 through rapid industrialization and
decreasing dependence on external resources. The Plan aimed at annual growth
rates of 7.5 percent in GDP, 12.7 percent in fixed investment, and a marginal
national savings ratio of 38 percent. An annual increase in commodity exports
and imports of 7.1 percent and 9.4 percent respectively was projected by the
Plan, which, taken together with projected growth in invisible earnings
(mainly workers' remittances) was expected to result in a decline in gross
inflows of official external assistance.
10.       Prospects for continued high economic growth remain good, although
the Third Plan's projections have proven to be optimistic in terms of the
anticipated increase in savings and a manageable balance of payments position,
with reduced levels of external assistance. Experience during the last three
years has shown that present efforts to mobilize greater domestic savings to
support a rapid growth of investment, especially in the public sector, need
to be considerably intensified. The Plan anticipated that two-thirds of the
increase in national savings would come from the public sector, through in-
creases both in surpluses of the SEEs and in tax revenue. Given the perform-
ance of SEEs and delays in implementing a general reform, the anticipated
rapid growth in their surpluses has not yet materialized and, indeed, some of
them continued to be heavy drains on the public exchequer. Given the present
domestic political outlook, it may be difficult to repeat the unusually good
1974 to 1975 tax performance to raise tax revenues, to the extent envisaged by
the Plan. There is nevertheless scope for increases in future years, but only
if appropriate policies are pursued more vigorously, such as improving tax
administration, widening tax coverage to include agricultural incomes and
service incomes, increasing the rate of property taxation, and introducing a
value added tax. Domestic resource mobilization in the public sector will
continue to be a significant constraint in the growth of public investment.
Besides taking steps to improve significantly the financial performance of
some of the key SEEs, including appropriate pricing of some of the goods they
produce or services they provide, increased borrowing abroad, as well as
increased long-term borrowing from the domestic private sector, are necessary
to achieve the ambitious public sector investment targets. Because Turkey's
development program requires funds in excess of savings than can be mobilized
domestically, and because these cannot be provided in adequate amounts if
foreign finance is limited to the foreign exchange cost of high-priority
projects, some local cost financing by foreign lenders will continue to be
required.



- 4 -
11.       With the favorable impact of the devaluation and stabilization
measures, Turkey's balance of payments position in the early 1970s remained
comfortable; in fact, there was a substantial surplus in its overall balance
of payments in 1973, and Turkey's foreign exchange reserves increased
significantly. Turkey, however, experienced deficits in 1974 and $417 million
in 1975. This was due partly to a sharp increase in the trade deficit and a
slowdown in the growth of workers' remittances, as well as to a reduction in
official capital aid inflows. The large trade deficits resulted mainly from
the increase in import volume and the unprecedented rise in import prices
generally, and oil prices in particular.
12.       In 1975 imports were $4.7 billion and were increasing at a rapid
rate, while exports were $1.4 billion and registered an 8 percent decline
over the preceding year because of the recession in major importing countries.
This happened despite Government measures, including an effective depreciation
of the exchange rate by 15.5 percent between April 1975 and April 1976 through
successive small adjustments (there was a further deterioration of 3 percent
in October 1976), liberalization of tax rebates and relaxation of export
controls. Workers' remittances rose rapidly until 1973 and continued to grow
until 1974, but they decreased by 8.5 percent in 1975 as compared to 1974.
Their future is uncertain due to the temporary restriction on further entry of
foreign workers into the major labor-importing countries of Europe. Recent
agreements between Turkey and Libya to send Turkish workers to Libya, and the
possibility of similar arrangements with the oil-producing countries, should
help to somewhat ease the situation. As a result of these developments, gross
reserves decreased to about $1.0 billion by December 1975 (the equivalent of
about 2.7 months of 1975 imports).
13.       The trends of 1975 seem to have continued through 1976.    A prelim-
inary assessment shows that the balance of payments situation has further
worsened. The current account deficit for 1976 is estimated to be slightly
larger than the deficit in 1975, due to some increase in imports and a decline
in workers' remittances. Export earnings, however, have recovered signifi-
cantly as a result of Government's actions and a revival of European demand.
While the prospects are that Turkey can increase its exports at a fairly high
rate, provided appropriate domestic policies are introduced to give adequate
incentives for exports, Turkey's balance of payments is likely to remain
under significant pressure in the immediate years ahead. The Government
should also avoid fixing prices for domestic purchases of exportable commodi-
ties at levels above those prevailing in international markets, in an effort
to encourage their exports instead of consumption in Turkey. Even more
important, is the need to contain the growth of imports within foreign ex-
change availabilities.
14.       A disturbing feature of the balance of payments situation is the
sharp increase in short-term external debt. Under the convertible lira
accounts schemes, non-residents are permitted to open accounts denominated
and repayable in foreign exchange. These deposits carry an attractive in-
terest rate of 1.75 percent above the Eurodollar market rates and appear
to have been used extensively by several foreign banks. Deposits under this
scheme rose from $120 million in May 1975 to about $1 billion by the end of



-5-
1975, and according to preliminary estimates may have reached about $1.7
billion by the end of 1976. Further growth of such short-term debt needs to
be strictly controlled and Turkey should continue to attempt to lengthen
the average maturity of existing debts.
15.       At the end of 1975, Turkey's medium- and long-term external debt
outstanding and disbursed amounted to $3.3 billion ($4.6 billion including
undisbursed), 94 percent of which was public or publicly guaranteed debt.
About 58 percent of this debt was held by governments and about 33 percent by
international organizations. The Bank Group's share was 13 percent with an
undisbursed pipeline of $588 million at that time. Debt service payments
amounted to an estimated $270 million in 1975, equivalent to 12.5 percent
of exports of goods and non-factor services, the Bank Group's share being
12 percent. Despite the aforementioned deterioration in the balance of pay-
ments, the debt service ratio can be expected to remain within acceptable
limits in the medium-term, provided sound overall debt management policies
as well as borrowing practices are pursued. Meanwhile, Turkey continues
to be creditworthy for Bank financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
16.       The 1970 economic stabilization program and devaluation of the
Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be established on a con-
tinuing basis at a high level. As of January 31, 1977, the Bank Group has
lent $1,321.2 million to Turkey through 47 lending operations (or 42 projects,
since both loans and credits were provided for some projects), including 14
IDA credits totalling $178.1 million. Fourteen of these operations have
been in agriculture and rural development (including multipurpose projects),
sixteen in industry (including DFCs), ten in power, and the rest in urban
development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture and rural
development account for 26 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs
for about 38 percent and power for about 26 percent. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
January 31, 1977, respectively, with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private
sector, but less so in the public sector where significant delays have
resulted from political uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies,
staffing problems and related administrative delays. Disbursements have
consequently been slower than expected. To improve this situation, the
Government established, in mid 1975, a ministerial coordinating committee,
supported by a new secretariat located in the Ministry of Finance, which is
responsible for coordinating all aspects of Bank Group operations. In con-
nection with this new framework, in June 1975 the Government and the Bank
initiated joint quarterly reviews to identify and resolve key bottlenecks
impeding satisfactory project implementation. So far, six such reviews have
taken place, the most recent one in January, 1977. The results so far have
been gradual but encouraging, and key policy problems affecting Bank projects



now receive concerted high-level attention. However, the current political
standoff occasioned by a weak coalition government has prevented reaching
follow-up solutions on some of those policy problems.
17.       Bank lending to Turkey is now mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living standards
through rural development efforts, urban planning, increased employment and
incomes opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save foreign
exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports and
tourism; and (c) lagging public sector saving, through the operations of the
SEEs. In support of these objectives, it is proposed to continue to devote
the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors, of which agriculture
is the most important. In this sector, emphasis is being put on rural develop-
ment, the strengthening of agricultural credit mechanisms, and livestock.
Industry (including mining and DFCs), where the gradual strengthening of the
SEEs is the key task, will also receive significant support. This program
is supplemented by projects in tourism, power, urban development and transport.
18.       Until recently, Bank lending was focused mainly in two geographical
areas: (i) the Istanbul region, with emphasis on urban planning, water supply,
power distribution and industrial finance; and (ii) the Cukurova region around
Adana on the southern coast, with emphasis on power, irrigation, and fruit and
vegetable production. Lately, however, the focus has been broadened to in-
clude the Anatolian plateau and eastern Turkey in support of efforts to widen
the geographical base of development and help the Government improve the eco-
nomic condition of segments of the population in areas which had been relatively
neglected in the past. Projects under preparation include rural development,
grain storage and agricultural credit, as well as more traditional projects
such as wastewater disposal in Istanbul, a hydroelectric project, and a second
railways project.
19.       IFC has invested in the production of nylon yarns, pulp and paper,
glass, aluminum, steel pipes, and tourism. As of January 31, 1977, gross
IFC commitments totalled $158.15 million, of which $85.74 million were still
held by IFC. The Corporation is currently investigating additional investment
opportunities in the industrial sector, including textiles, motor bicycles,
inorganic chemicals, and asbestos cement pipes.
PART III - THE BORROWER AND THE STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
The Borrower and Its Role in the SEE Sector
20.       DYB is a government-owned financial institution, which has a Board
of five directors, three from within the organization and two appointed by
the Council of Ministers. DYB is allocated resources by the Government on the
basis of the financial requirements of SEEs, to carry out the investment tar-
gets established in the Five-Year Development Plan. One of the objectives
of the first loan was to try to broaden DYB's responsibilities with a view to
improving the performance of its client SEEs, and DYB's implementation of



- 7 -
agreements in this respect concluded under the first loan has been satisfac-
tory (Loan No. 1024-TU, signed on June 28, 1974). In order to further needed
improvements already underway, DYB can effectively use Bank support in strength-
ening project appraisal, in formulating and exercising contractual rights in
supervision, in hiring and training required staff, and in obtaining audits
which meet international standards. More importantly, however, the proposed
project will enhance DYB's role in the SEE system. It takes modest, but
significant steps, to give DYB gradually more of a voice in the Government's
decision making process on SEE investments, to promote DYB as the institution
sensitizing the Government and SEEs to the need to evaluate fully economic
benefits and costs of projects before embarking on investments, and thereby to
increase DYB's influence in screening out and modifying questionable projects.
Other objectives, not included in the first Bank loan, concern efforts to
increase DYB's equity base, improve its accounting system, and fulfill the
assignment of effectively allocating resources raised by the Government in
foreign markets. Thus, the proposed loan should continue the effort to
transform DYB gradually into a stronger financial intermediary which could
help improve the quality of SEE projects.
21.       Up until now DYB has had little direct influence on decisions made
annually by SPO, the Planning Council and the Council of Ministers, as to what
public sector investments would be made in the coming year. Its influence
was exercised at the time projects were submitted to it in the form of suggest-
ing technical and financial improvements. Under the proposed project, initial
steps will be taken to strengthen DYB's role gradually in contributing to
decision-making. An informal understanding has been reached that in May of
each year, when DYB receives summaries of all SEE investment proposals, it can
also obtain the full text, if so requested. The purpose of this is to enable
DYB to consult with the SEEs on their new project proposals during the prepara-
tion stage, and to make its views on their relevance or viability known to the
Ministry of Finance and other relevant Government authorities, well before the
final decisions are taken in November. Although this step is modest, in the
Turkish institutional context it is significant, and should help pave the way
for a gradually increased DYB role in SEE investment decision making, in the
future.
DYB's Operational Performance
22.       Lending Operations.   During the first three years (1973-1975) of
Turkey's Third Plan, DYB's total approvals amounted to TL 16,136 million,
about four times higher than the corresponding period (1968-1970) of the
second Development Plan. During the 1973-1975 period, commitments grew at
an annual average rate of 36 percent, while disbursements grew at an average
rate of 53 percent. For 1970-1972, these figures were 10 percent and 14
percent respectively. DYB's disbursements during 1973-1975 accounted for
37.2 percent of all SEE's estimated fixed investments, compared with 20
percent during the 1970-1972 period. DYB is currently providing credit in
three forms: term loans, working capital loans, and credits under special
laws. Term loans are the bulk of DYB's business, amounting to TL 22,809
million outstanding as of December 31, 1975 and equivalent to 71 percent of
DYB's total portfolio. Total working capital loans outstanding account for



- 8 -
only 6 percent of DYB's total portfolio. Credits under special laws amounted
to 23 percent of DYB's portfolio at end 1975; most of these credits were made
for eight years out of resources passed on to DYB by the Central Bank to
finance the SEE's working capital and other requirements. The number of SEEs
borrowing from DYB increased from 23 in 1973 to 27 in 1975.
23.       All of DYB's recent and current lending operations are denominated
in Turkish lira, except for sub-loans financed by the Bank on which the SEEs
bear the foreign exchange risk. In the case of Turkish lira loans and credits,
when they are used to finance imported goods and services, the SEE's must
obtain the needed foreign exchange from the Central Bank, which in turn bears
the foreign exchange risk.
24.       Distribution of Loans.   The distribution of loans is determined
basically by the Government's annual investment and financial programs. In
1973, 40 percent of DYB's approvals of new projects went to the energy sector,
26 percent to telecommunications, and only 14 percent to manufacturing. How-
ever, during the past two years, manufacturing accounted for 66 percent and
70 percent respectively, since there were no new energy or telecommunication
projects programmed by the Government. Within the manufacturing sector, most
new loans approved went to SEE's producing consumer and intermediate goods.
This reflects Turkey's current stage of economic development. In the context
of geographical distribution of DYB's portfolio, it is well distributed and
include several of Turkey's underdeveloped areas, reflecting the Government's
policy of dispersing new industrial projects across the country, to the
extent possible.
25.       Lending Terms and Conditions.   DYB's loans usually amount to 60-70
percent of total SEE investment in new projects, the balance being financed
from their own funds and Government budget sources. The amount of a loan
is determined by the capital requirements of the projects and the SEE's
repayment ability within the limits set under the annual financial programs.
Amortization periods are determined by DYB's management, and approved by its
Board, based on the project's likely profitability, location and production
technology. In general, projects located in less-developed areas and infra-
structure projects are given longer terms, of up to 16 years. On an average,
for manufacturing the repayment period is about 14 years, with up to 3 years
of grace.
26.       Interest Rates.   In late 1974 DYB increased its standard lending
rate from 10.5 percent to 12.5 percent. When SEEs borrow Bank funds through
DYB, there is an additional cost of assuming the foreign exchange risk (the
lira/dollar depreciation has been 14.3 percent since 1975). As a result,
the effective cost of sub-loans provided under the Bank's first DYB loan
was significantly higher than 12.5 percent. Measured by the GDP deflator,
inflation in Turkey rose from 14.7 percent in 1972 to 27.6 percent in 1974,
before subsiding to an estimated 16.3 percent in 1975. The reduction of the
inflation rate, as rapidly as possible, continues to be an essential plank
in the Government's economic policy for the future, and there are reasonable
prospects that, with these efforts, the annual inflation rate could
be brought down further in the medium term.     It is therefore



- 9 -
likely that the 12.5 percent interest currently charged by DYB, together with
the foreign exchange risk assumed by the sub-borrower, will result in a posi-
tive real rate of interest over the average life of sub-loans financed out
of Bank funds, which is likely to average 14 years. In 1976, with the Bank's
help in outlining the work, the Government has initiated six studies in the
financial sector dealing with flow-of-funds, financial efficiency, informal
markets, factors affecting financing, special law banks, and term credit; the
studies are expected to be completed in 1977. Through the course of these
studies, as well as through the usual supervision activities, the Bank will
keep DYB's lending rate under review. In this regard, an agreement has been
reached that at the Bank's request DYB will exchange views with the Bank on
the appropriateness of sub-loan interest rates charged on Bank financed sub-
projects (Loan Agreement Section 4.08).
27.       Financial Performance.   Profitability is mainly determined by DYB's
spread on the interest rate charged for term loans (currently 12.5 percent)
and the cost of DYB's bonds (currently 11 percent). When combined with the
spread on other loans and resources, DYB's overall yield spread in 1975 was
2.0 percent, compared to 1.5 percent in 1973. Net income before taxes has
doubled, from TL 334.7 million in 1973 to TL 765.2 million in 1975 (2.2 per-
cent and 2.5 percent respectively of average total assets). Measured as
return on average net worth, net income before taxes in 1973 yielded 23.4
percent, and jumped to 38 percent in 1975. For a DFC serving the public
sector; DYB's good profitability reflects the following factors: a well-
leveraged capital base, a sound portfolio with no losses or excessive arrears;
a consistently positive yield spread on operations; and low administrative
costs, resulting from -the relatively small staff compared to volume of
operations. DYB pays a corporation tax amounting to 35 percent and various
other taxes amounting to 6.5 percent of net income.
28.       Resources.   Since 1973, the Ministry of Finance has permitted DYB
to increase its equity base by retaining net profit after taxes and other
required allocations, rather than transferring net profits to the Ministry.
As a result, paid-in share capital has risen from TL 1,000 million in 1971
to TL 1,400 million at end 1975. In addition, net interest of TL 306 million
received on certain credits under special -laws has also been retained to be
converted to capital at a future date to be determined by the Finance Minis-
try. DYB operates under no debt/equity limit, no single exposure limit, and
no limits on loan size, since these were not considered necessary in view of
DYB's special role of a public sector investment bank designed to provide
funds for public sector enterprises. DYB also does not take an active part
in mobilizing its own resources. Instead, the necessary funds are obtained
for DYB by the Ministry of Finance which, as the parent institution, guaran-
tees DYB's obligations, and acts as the lender of last resort. There has been
no basic change in the method of raising funds, or the sources of such funds,
since the previous Bank loan appraisal. Most of DYB's lending resources have
been raised through sale of long-term bonds to Government pension funds.
Practically all of DYB's borrowing is in local currency, except for the Bank
loan. A recent development was DYB's success in obtaining a $150 million
medium-term loan from a consortium of foreign commercial banks at an interest
rate of 1.75% over the London Inter-Bank Offer (LIBOR) rate. The loan was



- 10 -
guaranteed by the Government, under DYB's law. Given DYB's complete depend-
ence on the Ministry of Finance for arranging resources, the Government will,
through the financing plan of DYB's annual program, ensure DYB's additional
needs for funds when it finances sub-projects approved by the Bank.
Performance Under the First Bank Loan to DYB
29.       The Bank's first loan to DYB was restricted for use in financing
projects in manufacturing and processing industries and non-fuel mining.
Ten such projects were financed under the first loan. The reason for this
limitation was that: (a) it is in these areas that small and medium-sized
projects exist (as so defined in the context of Turkey's public sector),
over which DYB could have some influence, with Bank support; and (b) the
Bank has direct operations in the other sectors DYB serves. The rationale
for this approach was to attempt to extend institution-building activities,
through DYB, to those manufacturing projects and SEEs with which the Bank
would otherwise have no relationship. Most SEE projects financed by DYB are
usually capital intensive. Under the first Bank loan, the average cost per
job-created by the Bank financed sub-projects of DYB is estimated at $75,000.
However, if this analysis excludes three very capital intensive sub-projects
(one of which has high secondary employment effects), then the estimated
average cost per job-created under the remaining seven sub-projects would be
$43,000 approximately.
30.       The projects financed out of the proceeds of the first Bank loan
have an estimated economic impact which is demonstrable: the weighted average
financial and economic rates of return were 25.1 percent and 29.0 percent
respectively, considerably above most projects financed by the Bank in Turkey
on a direct basis. From the point of view of transferring resources quickly
and efficiently, the first loan to DYB was also successful since it was
almost fully committed within two years of effectiveness, and disbursements
are on schedule.
31.       The Bank's first loan was also an initial attempt to see if results
could be achieved by working within the SEE system, since fundamental changes
in this system would require legislation which only a strong Government could
possibly see through. Progress has been made in strengthening DYB in ways
which can influence some new investments and performance of SEEs. DYB's ap-
praisal work has improved, its financial, technical and economic analysis
have become more comprehensive, and the Bank's guidelines on the economic rate
of return calculation have been properly applied. By restricting the Bank
loan to those SEEs and sectors where there are good chances of success in
applying economic criteria to operations, and then by building further on this
by continuing to broaden DYB's influence over the less efficient SEEs, the
Bank has made a beginning in helping Turkey gradually effect significant
improvements.
State Economic Enterprises
32.       SEEs are those enterprises which have more than one half of their
capital owned by the Government. There are over 100 such companies, of



- 11 -
which 35 account for the majority of the assets. Of these, eight are in the
financial sector and the rest are in the agricultural, mining and power, manu-
facturing, communications and transport sectors. Those SEEs which are 100
percent Government owned are entitled to create separate legal entities called
Establishments which are, in effect, independent subsidiary companies having
one or several factories, as determined by the nature of the industry and
geographical location. Every SEE, along with its Establishments and sub-
sidiaries, is under the control of its related Ministry. The Board of
Directors of each SEE is usually composed of three members of the SEEs top
management, plus two members appointed by the Council of Ministers, one drawn
from the related Ministry and the other from the Ministry of Finance. Super-
vision of SEEs operations is, in general, the responsibility of the related
Ministry and the specific responsibility of the High Control Board, an audit-
ing organization which audits the financial performance of all SEEs in Turkey,
is responsible to the Prime Minister and reports directly to Parliament.
33.       In following the principles of a mixed economy, the successive
Turkish governments have established various social and economic policy
objectives for SEEs, which vary in priority according to the planning period,
and have gradually eroded their initial purpose of being financially self-
reliant organizations. These diverse policy objectives include import sub-
stitution, income redistribution, employment creation, and growth of under-
developed regions. Evaluating the degree of success or failure of the SEEs
in achieving their objectives is greatly complicated, however, by Turkey's
extensive system of industrial subsidies, incentives, and controls. Never-
theless one conclusion is clear: the mixed economy policy objectives which
SEEs are being called upon to fulfill, and the means used to achieve them,
have resulted in a very large volume of public sector investment in industry
which is now straining Turkey's financial resources.
34.       Despite the burden imposed on them to meet the above policy objec-
tives, SEEs are still expected to generate some surpluses to finance operating
expenses and future investments. Some of them meet one, or both, of these
financial requirements. However, many SEEs have fallen short of those expecta-
tions and require considerable financial support from the Government, partly
because of price controls on critical goods or public services like power or
rail transport; partly because social objectives prevent SEEs from optimizing
their profits; and partly because SEEs are inefficiently operated. The SEEs
submit their financial requirements for new and ongoing projects to the State
Planning Organization (SPO) in July of each year; the SPO consults the Planning
Council, composed of various Government agencies; and by the end of the year
the Council of Ministers approves the annual investment program (capital for
new projects) and the annual financial program (working capital and capital to
complete projects under construction).
35.       Sales revenues of all SEEs more than doubled between 1973 and
1975 (from TL 45.4 billion to TL 96.3 billion). However, the increase in
production costs was even greater, so that total SEEs net profit before



- 12 -
taxes in 1973 of TL 400 billion turned to an estimated loss of TL 2.9 billion
in 1975. Given the two fold expansion in production of goods and services,
obviously the output per employee has greatly increased, reflecting the
heavy investment in capital goods of recent years. To fill the gap in invest-
ment capital and the shortfall in working capital, the SEE sector as a whole
has had to rely heavily on transfers from the general budget, borrowing
from social security and pension funds, and extraordinary recourse to the
Central Bank.
36.       Those SEEs which have had to rely on budgetary transfers because
of large aggregate losses in the 1973-75 period were four; Turkish Coal Corp.,
Soil Products Office, State Railways, and the Maritime Bank. Other SEEs which,
in the aggregate, were unprofitable over the same period include the Meat and
Fish Organization, the Milk Industry, Mining (Etibank), Turkish Cement, and
Turkish Airlines. Except for these, the majority of the remaining SEEs were
generally profitable, although their yields--net profit/equity--were low when
compared with the cost of capital in Turkey. For 1974, the last year for
which detailed information is available, only six produced a net yield on
equity which was above the 10 percent average rate for term loans to the
public sector that year. It can be concluded that the most profitable SEEs
(Turkish Petroleum Company, Petro Chemical Company, Turkish Iron and Steel
Mills Corp., Turkish Sugar Company) enjoyed the best leverage on equity, were
the most capital intensive, and had price structures more sensitive to market
pressures. By contrast, the money losing SEEs were those most subject to
social objectives and most affected by Government pricing policies.
37.       Several factors account for the SEEs low return on assets.    Besides
the use of SEEs as the Government's instruments for achieving social and eco-
nomic objectives, SEEs also face the problem of attracting sufficiently ex-
perienced and good quality staff and management; this tends to impede efficient
and full use of capacities created. The reform of the SEEs--in organization,
management, supply of technical capabilities and pricing policies--remains
crucial, especially if Turkish industry is to become competitive with that of
the EEC. Realistically, such a comprehensive reform can only be initiated by
a strong and committed Government which commands significant and coherent
parliamentary support favoring such reform. The Third Plan recognized the
faults of the existing SEE system and outlined reforms to improve productivity
and profitability. Tht Government subsequently did propose SEE reform legisla-
tion to Parliament, but because reform of this kind is the object of serious
differences among Turkey's political parties, it has not yet been passed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
38.       The proposed project is the second Bank loan to Devlet Yatirim
Bankasi (DYB). In conjunction with the implementation of the first loan,
which has been almost fully committed, DYB, through discussions with Bank



- 13 -
staff, formulated the basis for the proposed second project. It was appraised
in July 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1976 but final
agreement from the Government was not received until mid-February 1977. The
Turkish delegation was headed by Mr. Asaf Guven, Chief Economic and Financial
Counselor of the Turkish Embassy, and included Mr. Sukru Akgungor, Director
General of DYB.
Project Concept
39.       The proposed second loan of $70 million would cover_about six
percent of DYB's projected commitments in the 1977-78 period. DYB's resource
needs for this general period are discussed below. The criteria for using the
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan are as follows:
(a) as in the case of the first project, the loan would be
restricted primarily to projects in manufacturing and
processing industries and, to a limited extent, in non-
fuel mining (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph A);
(b) the Bank's contribution to DYB's individual project
financing would be up to $9 million, compared to
$6 million in the first loan, the increase being
justified by the rate of inflation in Turkey over the
past three years and the increasing average size of
new projects undertaken by SEEs (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 3, Paragraph B);
(c) Bank financing would cover at least 10 percent of
sub-project costs and would only be used for foreign
exchange expenditures (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3,
Paragraph B);
(d) there would be a free limit of $2,000,000 equivalent,
with an aggregate free limit restriction of $14,000,000;
the number of projects above the free limit to be sent
to the Bank would be at least 12; (Loan Agreement
Section 2.02 (b));
4
(e) both the financial and economic rates of return for
sub-projects should be reasonable (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 3, Paragraph B). Under the first loan to DYB,
the financial rate of return and economic rate of return
on sub-projects financed through Bank funds were, in
practically all cases, in excess of 20% and DYB has
been put on notice that the Bank expects sub-projects
submitted to it to have rates of return of similar
orders of magnitude;



- 14 -
(f) in view of the Government's concern to alleviate
unemployment, DYB intends to consider the cost-per-
job created figure before submitting subprojects for
Bank financing, with a view to approximating the
$50,000 cost-per-job figure applicable to the majority
of sub-projects financed under the first loan.
40.       The project details are provided in the Loan and Project Summary
in Annex III of this report, and in the report entitled "Appraisal of a
Second Loan to Devlet Yatirim Bankasi - DFC Project, Turkey" (Report No.
1300-TU) dated December 10, 1976, which is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors.
DYB's Resource Needs
41.       DYB's future level of operations cannot be accurately determined
until the SEEs annual investment and financial programs are decided in late
autumn each year. As a result, DYB's projected operations for 1976-1979
are based on extrapolations derived from past experience, and must be con-
sidered tentative. The average annual amount of approvals for 1976-1979 are
expected to be about TL 9.6 billion, compared to TL 4.8 billion for 1972-1975.
It is likely that DYB's share in SEE's total fixed investments would decrease
somewhat from the present level of 37 percent. In addition, DYB's projected
disbursements for the 1976-1979 period are expected to rise from TL 6.2
billion to TL 10.8 billion.
42.       Based on DYB's projected disbursements, total resource needs for
1976-1979 would be about TL 33.7 billion. DYB will continue to be assured
of Government funds of about TL 14.8 billion through bond issues to Govern-
ment pension funds and a newly created social security fund for self-employed
workers, in addition to net collections on past loans in an amount of about
TL 11.1 billion. An additional TL 4.1 billion would be assured through
DYB's retained earnings, an expected increase in paid in share capital, and
other cash generation. DYB's foreign exchange borrowings will be about
TL 3.7 billion for the 1976-1979 period. Of this amount, the Bank, through
the first and the proposed loans, will provide TL 1.3 billion and the foreign
loan mentioned above (para 28) will cover the balance.
Management and Organization
43.       Board and Management.   There has been one important change in the
Board of Directors since the previous loan appraisal: Mr. Sukru Akgungor,
in late 1975, was appointed as DYB's new Chairman and General Director. An
economist by education, Mr. Akgungor has held posts in the SPO, and most re-
cently in the Ministry of Finance. Counting the two Assistant General
Directors, Messrs. Dosluoglu and Kivanc, DYB's management has a voting
majority in the five-man Board of Directors, as is typical for SEEs. The
management of DYB continues to be satisfactory.



- 15 -
44.       Staff.  DYB's staff also continue to be of satisfactory calibre.
As mentioned below, although the standard of appraisals and supervision of
sub-projects financed by the Bank has been good and is improving, to cope
with the volume of its business DYB needs more staff. Of the 189 staff
positions authorized by the Ministry of Finance, only 148 are presently
filled. Progress in hiring additional staff is hampered by both the short
supply of qualified candidates and the competition of higher salaries paid
in the private sector. However, DYB has an advantage over some other SEEs
in that it can employ personnel on an annual contractual basis, at a pay
level higher than the standard salary structure for SEEs. Employment on a
contractual basis is a procedure limited by the Government to DYB, SPO, the
Ministry of Finance and a few SEEs. Nevertheless, DYB has still not been
able to attract enough employees to fill the positions available, although
the turnover rate has been reasonable (averaging 12 percent per annum from
1973 to 1975). Recently, DYB received the Ministry of Finance's permission,
(a) to raise somewhat its salary structure for regular employees which will
help in recruiting good quality staff; and (b) to increase the authorized
positions from 189 to 284, including 39 more slots for experts, most of them
slated for the Appraisal Department. DYB is taking action to appoint the
required additional staff and has confirmed its plans to fill a majority of
the open positions by the end of 1977, provided well qualified candidates
can be found.
45.       Training.  DYB has a good reputation for staff training, through
both formal programs and on-the-job instruction. Furthermore, DYB makes a
unique contribution to the public sector by conducting a two-month seminar
every year on project appraisal techniques. Mainly due to work commitments,
DYB has had to decline several requests to hold this seminar twice a year.
The seminar accepts up to 60 trainees from various SEEs (DYB's staff in-
cluded); the lecturers include experts from Government ministries, SPO,
HCB, Turkish and foreign universities, as well as specialists from the
OECD. Since 1967 about 350 employees of SEEs have attended seminars.
46.       Project Appraisal.   DYB's overall appraisal work has improved
steadily since the first Bank loan. Under that loan, arrangements were
made for the Bank to review all sub-loan appraisals done by DYB; because
DYB's appraisals have turned out to be of a generally high standard, it is
proposed that a free-limit of $2 million be introduced under which no prior
review by the Bank is necessary. DYB has now expressed its intention to
extend gradually its appraisal procedures, applied to Bank financed sub-
projects, to include all projects financed by DYB. The 19 staff members
in DYB's Appraisal Department have been ably led by the Assistant General
Director and three group heads; unfortunately two of these group heads
recently left DYB for other institutions. In addition, the Department is
under-staffed. As a result, concerted efforts will be made to increase the
Appraisal Department staff in order to take a broader role in the SEE project
preparation cycle proposed for DYB, handle the increased appraisal work load
anticipated in 1978 when the next Plan period begins, and conduct regular
supervision of projects under implementation.



- 16 -
47.       Supervision.  DYB is only required by law to supervise projects it
finances during the construction phase, not after operations have started.
This is because the High Control Board (HCB) is directly charged with super-
vising all SEEs and their operations, as are the Ministries to which the SEEs
are related. From the point of view of protecting its credit, there is no
pressing need for DYB to supervise projects after they are in operation,
because DYB's loan is to the parent SEE which is much bigger than any indi-
vidual project DYB finances and because the Government takes care of SEEs
operational deficits and liquidity needs. Still, not supervising or at least
visiting a project after it is in operation, deprives DYB of the opportunity
to obtain empirical evidence about what really happened to the investment
which it appraised, approved, and financed: such an operational evaluation
would provide useful input for DYB's appraisal work on similar future projects.
In the first Bank loan, DYB's contract with sub-borrowers of Bank funds in-
cluded the right to supervise sub-projects after they were in operation.
Under the proposed loan, DYB intends to introduce this practice gradually
to all sub-projects.
48.       Procurement and Disbursement.   SEEs employ international competitive
bidding according to regulations approved by their related Ministries, and in
so doing, use procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Documentation
on cost estimates is submitted to DYB, and all records on expenditures are
available for DYB's examination. Requests for disbursement must be fully
supported by invoices and other evidence. The proceeds of the proposed
loan would finance 100 percent of the CIF cost of imported equipment.
DYB's Capital Structure
49.       In view of the fact that DYB and the Government anticipated that
the former may become an intermediary for the Government's efforts to raise
money in the international market, an understanding has been reached that DYB
and the Government will seek approval (requiring legislation) of an increase
in DYB's authorized capital to TL 5 billion. Payment by late 1977 of an
unpaid balance of TL 600 million of DYB's present authorized capital of TL 2
billion has been confirmed. These objectives recognize that the financial
strength of DYB, which lends only to the public sector as an integral part
of the Government's financing system, fundamentally rests on the Government
itself; but that, nevertheless, improvement of DYB's capital base should
help in present and future efforts to borrow funds in the international
capital market in the future.
50.       On the basis of its expected resources and operations, DYB's net
worth is projected to grow at an annual average rate of 22 percent, much
higher than its long-term debt (11 percent p.a.), and a welcome development
in view of the need to build up its capital base. DYB's net profit after
tax would grow at an annual average rate of 26 percent. Projected debt ser-
vice coverage ratio would range between 1.6 and 1.8 during 1976-77, well
above the minimum limit of 1.3 prescribed in the first loan with the Bank
and under this project (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).



- 17 -
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       Building on the successful performance of DYB under the first loan
(Part III), which has helped certain SEEs achieve greater efficiency and pro-
fitability, the proposed Bank loan will continue to assist DYB in broadening
and strengthening its appraisal and supervision, in playing a part in SEE
investment decisions and, in so doing, intensifying its overall impact on
Turkey's public sector. The Bank's association with DYB, by working within
the existing SEE system, is thus designed to work toward the eventual reform
of public sector industry in Turkey. In the meantime, DYB will continue to
operate as an effective intermediary in the financing of economically sound
projects. Project risks are non-financial and are associated with DYB's
ability, within the current rigid administrative system, to carry out the
innovative managerial and decision-making functions described in this report.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.      The draft Loan Agreement between DYB and the Bank, the draft Guar-
antee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The draft agreements
conform to the normal pattern for loans for development finance companies.
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement contains the lending policies and procedures
for the project.
53.      Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to
in paras. 21-28 and 39-51 of this report.
54.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Guarantee Agreements.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



Y  f6 Pages
TABLE SA
TURrEY                SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SMEET
LAND AREA (THOU ENSI                                    -     
TURKEY TuRxEr                       REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      7eD.6                                      MOST RECENT                                           _
-aic.       543.3                      1960      1970   ESTIHATE          COLOMBIA       IRAN           ITALY
______________________~ ___ _ _  _____ _____ 0 _ _ __ _ _   ____________-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     260.0      480.0      .860.0 3640.0                  690.0      2a0.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            27.8       35.6        40.2 A             20.6       29.1        53.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        35.0       46.o       51.0 /a            i8.O        18.0      Ir8.O
PER SQUARE KM. AaRC. LAND               .        67.0        74.0              92.0       107,0       295.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        -44.8       40.6       39.4               44.3        45s9        18.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         16.9       14.4        12.5              11.0        18.2         9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)       1    7.0 /a.b.cl145.0     ..-              T.a        140.0       29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH lYRS)        49.3       54.4        56.9              58.5        48.5        70.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2,9         2.6/.b      ..                3.2         3.4         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                 3.0         2.5        2.4 b              2.9         3.1        0.8
URBAN                                  5.1/a-     4. 9Yj     4 -2/b             5.54k       5.0         0.8
UR8BN POPULATION (It OF TOTAL)          31.9       38.5        41IB/a            60.o        41.0        51.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.3       41.8         ..               47.0        46.0/     24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.2        53.9          .               50.4        so.0/a     65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.5        4.3          ..               3.0         4.07i      10.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9          ..                1.0        I ./ 
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1 .0        .lLg        ..                o.r7       i.,9        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMJLATIVE. THOU)          0.0           '       484. o/e           306.9      662.14
USERS tl OF MARRIED WOMEN)            5.3         8.2         ..                  ..        O.0 
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAAOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       13000. 0 /e 14500.0/d   15ooo.ols          6200.0      8r7o.0    19600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (l)          71.0       67Yo        60.0               39.0       43.0        19.0
UNE8PLOYED CI OF LABOR FORCE)            2.0 If     4. 0o       ..                 7.0        2.0         3.1
I4CORE DISTRIBUTION
X JF P7IVATE INC3ME REC*D BY--
HIGHEST 5s OF NOUSEIHMLI             33.0 /d     3 2.8 If                     31.9        29.79 d
HIGHEST 202 OF H0OTSUOO              61.0 4      60.. 60.1_                                5-4. d-
LOWEST  20X OF HDOSELW                4.0 /D      Z.9                           3   a 5/    4. 0
LOWEST  40S OF EU7SEHU               10.0         9.4                           0 . 1 .1Id  12.7 
DISTRIAUTION IF LAND OWNERSHIP
X  lRNED aT TOP IOX OF OWNERS                      53...                                       ..
I OWNED BY SMALLEST LO1 OWNERS            ..        0.9                         ..             ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              3220.0S    2220.0      2130.0            2160.0      3100.0      550.0
POPJLATION PrA NJRSING PERSON         3260.0zj   IdBO.O&     12640.04 0                    32 3Z0.0    478.004
PO>JLATION PER HODSPIAL BED           650.0       490.0      49t.0              450.0       780.0        90.0c
PE1 CAPITA SUPP Y OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)         10. 0      110.0       129.0              97.0        e6.0      126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              78.0        78.0        91.0              51.0        53.0      100.0
-Or WHICH ANI"AL AND PULSE           ..        22.0          .29.0 z             .o      14.f0t'    42.0
OEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.02/d    15.0          ..               8.4          ..         1.0
EDOU CAT ION
A JUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        75        1 11.0      105.0              102.0       83.0      lor.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      14.0       28.0        32-0               23.0       26.0        59.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIOED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0        11.0       01.0               11.0        12.O        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                      18.0       14.0       14.0               25.0 If      S .D       28.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE C2)                 40.0 a_    55.0 &        ..               73.0         ..        97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               2.0        1.9          ..                 ..          _2*
OCCUPIEU OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATCR                          81.0        64.0          ..                 ..       87. O/ae
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(t OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0        41.0          *.                 *-       25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY tl)                    2.0        18.0          ..                ..         4.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RAD;I  RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         49.0       8S.0       106.0              105.0       93.0       218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        4.0         6.0               11.0       10.0       190.0
ELECTRICITY CfWH7YR PER CAP)           102.0      217.0       304.0              414.0      246.0      2266.0
NEWSPRINT (C/TYR PER CAP)                0.8        0.7         1.7                2.8        0.4         5.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Pegs 2 of 6 pSaes
NOTES
.eleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1939 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 sad 1970, ad for Moet Recentr Estimate between
1971 and 1973.
** The long-term strategy of Turkish plann ing currently gives the 1970 level of Italy se its objective.%
TURKEY               1960    Ia  1955-60;    lb  Derived fry ample survey estimates (9,700 households) ;      c. Might be underestimated,     /d  1963,
7.  15 years so   /vr      f  1962,   j&   Disposable   . ouc,  /h   Inoleding ass istant nurse  and  idwive,    77  Paceone sin
years and over who tell the census takers that tbey can read sod write.
1970    Ia  Enoludes 17 eastern province,     lb   1965-67;   Ic  Ratio of population under 13 and 63 sod over to labor foro. 15 years
and ove,    Id   15 years and over_,secludes uneieplcyed;   /e  Registered only;    If  Disposable i.moms;    /j  Including
seats taot nurses and nidwives;   /b  1964-66,    If  person  six years sod over who tell the census tubers that they can reed
an  ,ritci  Li   1965-70.
MOST RECENT -ESTIMATE:    Ia  1975;    lb  1970-73;   Ic  15 years sod over, excludes -eemployed;     d   Including as.eisitt nurses and
nidwiv-s      j.  1964 - June 1974, 96% being IUD's..
COLOMBIA             1970    /s  Rate based on burial permits,    /b   1964-70,   /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 years end over to totol labor force,
Td  Econnice11y active population ;     le.  1964-66;  Iif Total secondary includes teacher training at the third leve.
lEAN                 1970    Is  1966,   lb  Households, (urban);    /c  1964-66;    /d  Encludes nomadic tribes;    Is  Inside only.
ITALY                1970    /s  Ratio of poplation under 15 sod 65 years and over to total labor force;       /b  Hospital personne,     /n  Including rural
hospitals and medical ceters.
RIl, Outober 20, 1976
DEE INITIONS OF SOCIAL nHOICATORS
Land Ares (thou                                                                    Ppoplation per nursing perso   - Population dividsd by masher of practicing
Total- Total surface area cunprising land ares and inland waters.                    m1.alesd female graduate nurses, "trained" or "cs.rtified" nurses, and
Aui.-Moest rancor estimate of agriculturs1 area used tamporrily or                uniliary personnel. with treang or experience.
permanently for crops, pastures, market 4 kitchen gardens or to lie              Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
fallow,                                                                            available In pbslic and private general and epecialised hoapital and
rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing home. and establi.hetant for
GNP? per ..pit. (US1$) - CliP per capita estimates at current market prices,         cutodial and preventive cars.
calculated by san   conversion, method so world Bank Atlas (1973-73 ba.si);      Per capita supply of calories ('I of requirease,ts) - C.opured iron energy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                          equivalent of net fend sple      aviable In -esatry per capita per day;
available supplies ecesprise domestic production, imports less experts,
P.__.l.ti___..d_vital___t_ti_                                                        au   hange   in s.took; mar suppliso eolude animal feed, seeds, quantities
Population (nid-yr-mlin          so    uyfrt         fntaalbe                        use   In fod processing and losses in distribution; requirements were
average of two end-year estima tes; 1960, 1970 and 1973 data,                      estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for no.-a     activity and
health ovesidering environmental tsemperatasre, body weights, age end sex
Population density - oar sousre be - mid-year population per squsam kilo-            distributions of population, soxd allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Poultion' densityr!or surle oftI        satrin, lad- Cunpucd us above for         Per cenits supply of Pr,ri     (goxram oa.rtday) - Protein content of per
agrioultural land only.                                                            cspira mat supply of fendpar day; ma      upply of fond is defined as
above; requirements fur all countries established by USDA Econemic
Viral statistice                                                                     Research Services provide for a miiaallowance of 60 gream of
Crude birth rate per thousand. average - Annusl live births per thousan.d             total protein, per day, and 20 grams, of animal end pulse pretein,of
of mid-year population, ten year ari theesti   average  ending in 1960 and         which 10 grmas should he animal protein; these standards are lower
1970, and fiv-yea    avorage ending in 1975c fr moat'recent esiat,than these of 75 grins, of total protein and 23 gras of animal prorsin
Crude death rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-          as an avrage for the world, proposed bly FAO In the Third World rood
year population; ten-year arithnetic averages ending In 1960 and 1970 and          Survey.
five-year average coding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       Per capita Protein supply fr- animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond
Wmant mortality rare (/thou) - Annu al deaths of infants under one year              derived ftcm animals sand pulsese in gransa per day.
of age per thousad lIIe births.                                                  Death rats (/thouS  Rage  1-4 - Annual deaths per thoussnd In age group
LIfe expectanc.y at birth lyre) - Average n-eber of years of life remin-              1-4 years, to children In this oge group; suggested as an indicator of
Ing at birth; usually fiv-yenr avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and                    malnutrition.
1975 for developing countries.
Grose -pnroduction rate - Average number of lIve daughters a wemn will             Education
bearin her norma    reproductive period if she experiences present age-          Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Eorollment of all ages as
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               percentage of primary school-age population; includes children aged
1970 end 9195tfor developing coutries.                                             b-Il years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Population er_t    ern t  (Z) - total - Cempo,d annua  growth rarso of mid-          for cosotriss with universal education, enoletsy ean-d 100%
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                  since so,se pupils are below or above the official school age.
Population erowth ra te  %) - urban - Cemptred lihe growth race of total           Adjusted enrolliaot ratio - seonooday school - Cemputed as shov;
population; different definitions of urban, areas may affect cempars-              secondary education requires at leas.t four years of approved primary
bility of dots among countries.                                                    instruction; provides genera.l, vocationa   or teacher training
irban porulation, CT of total) - Ratin of urban to total population                  ins tructiao  for pupils of 12 to 17 yearn of age; correspondencee
different definitions of urban -ree may affect oMparability of data                courses are generally excluded.
emong countries.                                                                 Yeers of sthwolinm Provi.ded (first and second levels) - Total years of
Ass Struture (percen.t) - Children (0-14 years), *orking-age (15-64 years),           schooling; at seonodary level, vocational, instrution oy be par-
sed retired (65 years sod over) on percentages of mId-year population.              tially or cempltetly etlakded.
Ann dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to             location  al erelment ft of seoday       - Vocational ins titutions
those of ages 15 through 64.                                                       inclde tecnbical, isatil         or ther progra   which operate
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over             independently or as depart. ata of se ondary inatitutiona,._
to the lborfrei        age group  f 15-64 years.                                 Adulrtlitrac   rte Cl) -. Literate adults (able to read and wite) as
Paiy pannng  aceorrs  c,aulaive. thon) - Caseulative washer of              pretg       oftotal adut population aged 15 years and over.
acce ptors of birth-ce ntral devices under auspices of national femily
planning progra sIneicpo.                                                        Lo-simg
F eily gelanoing - users ('I of marre   ee)- Percentages of marriedPesner                         ctras-Argemhrofpsnserrci
=wos of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control1 devices              occupied convetioaldaling        In urban areas; dwellings exclude
to all Imarried yeme  in, Same age group.                                          ann-permsanent structures sod aneccupied parts..
Occpie dwlligs  ithu    ie watr 1) - Occupied conventional
ftploessent                                                                           dwellings in urban  n   rural aeswthout imaid. or outside piped
Total lahor force ( thousand) - iconeically active persona, including                water facilities -   percentage of all occupied dwellings.
armed forces and unmaployed bu t excluding h-ueives, students, etc.;             Arcaes to electricity ft of all deaDlinesS - Conventional deIlligs
definitions in various coun trIes are nortcmperable.                               with electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings Im
Labor- farce In agriculture  Ml  - Agricultural labor ferns (in farming,             urban and rural areas.
forestry, hunting end fishing)as percentage of total labor ferns.                Rural duellines conncted ts electricity       C   o)-Cmputed as above for
Onemplayd ft of labor farce -) - Uemployed are usally defined as                      natal dwellings only.
persona uhe are able and willing to take a job, out of a jab on a
-give  day, remained out of a job, and aseking work for a specified               Conamaption
inimm,a  period eat ..xoaedink one week; may not be cemparable between           Radio rece.ivers fpear thou pen) - All types of rciesfor radio brosd
countries due to different definitions of unemloyed and source of                  casts to general public pa    thoussand of population; exludes
data, e. g. * employment offIce statistics, ample surveys , compulsory             unlicensed receiver   in coasmtries and in year when registration of
uneployment insurance.                                                             radio s.et wa in effect; date for recent years may wtr be comarable
since neat counntries abolished licensing.
Income distribution - Percentage of private inceme (both In cash and               Passenge.r cars (oan thou pop) - Passenger cars cemprise motor cr
bind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, pooret 20%, and pooret                  seating lass than eight persoms; exludes ambnj..nces, hearses sod
40% of hbuseholda.                                                                 military vehicles .
Electricity (iselr Pear cap) - Annual comnemeption of induatrial, cca-
Distribution of laud owership - percentages of land mind by wealthiest               martial, public and private electricity in kilowatt beers Per cqsica;
10% and poorest 10% of lend owners,                                                generally based em predauation data , without allowantce for lease  in
gride bet allowing for Imports and axporte of electricity.
Health and Nutrition                                         'jg~~~guj~5,JMLn,,uatgp. - Per capita aemual cosumption in kllsgrmss
Population per physician - Population divided by sbeahr of practicing                ea     cd   ta       tic Produaction plus net Imports of nwewprint.
physicians qualified fr-w a medical school at university level.



89    80  820 NICpIVg; 09951.0 8181   D A TA  833 I1?                                                            0%1Fr       6
1. GOP            277.0    357.1     371.1    403.5    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~   ~~~~~    ~~439.  674.3  043.1  931.3  6.0  8.  7.9    a.1        100.0
2. i.n. fol To.- of T..d.        -   .        .         .        .        .         .9                                               7 2.  - 33  -  - 
3.GOT                        275.3     306.1    569.56   403.05    438.00   472.4     640.4    94.80       1                     .982                100.0
4.  IW.Iot                            25.1     40.0     44.       082      67.       66.7     00.0     119.5      60.       03.         5.a.                 14.4
5. topoot.                - 17.1    - 26.1   - 28.7    . 29.I9  - 29.6   - 80      - 50     . 0.3       10.9        1.6      1'3.2      10.4         7.4
6.0Po. IT. A.dj.             .15.6      25.1   -26.2     .29.9    - 27.9      36.1   -52.3     - 97.0      11.2       3.0        3.       1.           7.61
7.   oooo 0..   .G.PT 6Ad..97                  14.9     1.         63       92       5.       33.7     32.        132       29.0        2.7     -0.70
9. Totol Coo.~~~~~~pi1oo  236.9   38~~~~7.1  3190   372        75.     5946.6    526.9    762.2       6.         B.        7.0        7.7        96.0
9.   n.to                              33      6.        71.4     84.6    101.      109.4    147.3     218.        6.0      19.         7.7       8.2         2.0
R0. 00.0.. A-i.bl.6.               277.7     372.0    389.9    631.7     477.2    530       641      904          70       1.          .          .         0.
11. GD0                               40.2      700       5.       0.       6I67.4            136L       9.         5.5       9.1       12.6      10.3        14.0
12. Fo.too 0.i.001-0bo                 4.1      13.5     19.       17.1     13.9      12.9     I1.6      09.3      36.0    .1.            .         .           .
13. 9t C.,IoOt T'an.f-~                0.2       0.2      03        0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.4        5.4       0.02      10.30      4.6
14. G1S                               U.S       45.7     701.9     73.7     706.7     9.       2.        9.          .         .         03        96          1.
5. G"7                               281.3     372.     389.:4   42.       453.8    687.1     65.      9.61.         .         .         .          .         0.
16I  1727.                                      7.      384.9     62'0.9   431.9     48.      652.0     9.3         6.7       9.1        7.        90         140
17. GOP t1 C.I..r*n  fl               112.2    228.9     593.5    403.5    512.0       -                  .        21.0      32.0                   .-
974Ipri....                    26.0      75.06    27.6     27.9      27.5     27.6      29.9     32.4       93         99        97        1. 
2. 4010011000     36.0      33.0     24.1     29.6      29.4~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~~~~       ~ 29.6  25.0  20. 12 96 44 40
3. Sovit...                           40.0     41 .4     63.3     42.       29       6.        32       6.          .          .         .          . 
C. POICIS
TIn -do11o.. 1974 . 1005
1. Ilo- P".o. Ood.                  34.2     59.5      65.6    100.00   105.1     1I,       53,9     219.0       3.2      2~7.0       7.         .7
2.Ip-,, Pol- Ind..                  59.1     64.6      77.2    10.        12.5    121.      614.6    237.3       5.3       5.          .          .
3. To,of TI.d. Ind..                  66.6     92.      950      100       93.8      9,.       1.        4.         .        67         0.         .
4. A-oroo E1.0.09. lot.                0.11     0.07      071      0.072    0.069     0.063    .        1 
i968-73  1973.75   1975-90  1990.45                                                      1945      1970     1975
0 . SIL9C14D 181NDI5C.1611711TOR11.)- 
I. COR                                .       3.4      3.         .                   1.: C1i111., L.bro Po.                12.9     13.7      15.6
3. Al-g.p 9.10.1    tolo  B.,.        1.4:     201.6     16.5     20.                   3. UO17l't         .11)3.1                      6.6       9.2
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10                         2 MAIL09.10. I.0-09 Rote  246.8  32.3  2. 230P-- .t bhro..:
6. I000t.o / CDP                      19.      21.97      2.      23.0                     3.1 A01.11.t-                      76.3     67.1     40.0
7.  I    -ooo  Go / GDP               39.6     2 6.      2.9       4.3 03.2 I.d..tIy                                         11.7      13.9      16.1 
7  I.: GAP /  GDP  1.6   6.6       5.8      4.3                    ~~~~~~3.3 S~.4                      16.5     19.0      22.3
Pl. PUBLIC PlW,'1965                               1970     1972      1973      1974     1973
C. Copot loo.n...                   17.6     22.4      20.1     19.9      17.6    320.4
- T.. 0-..0.                      16.3      16.5     17.6     17.3      16.1     19.2
2. Coo-ot EoPondit...                 15.0     17.7      19.1     19.2     15.4       .o
- Df .o.. lop.odtI.oo              4.1      3.6       3.5      3.4       3.4      00
3.    16                               2.6      6.7      1:.9      1.7      :2.2      n.
4. CoplIoAl... Ilod't-p                4.7      5.0       3.       3.9       6.3      n*
-P.blio 1.00                       .0      10.0      9.9      9.9       9.2     10.1
F0.8d Copil1 F-Li..10
GO.O.0t0    y nt Add op do . 1 0000869.
1976.194
I Introl OGoornot OXopt h.-. oth.-t-v. nt.d.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
IK1'O T DETAIL
1968      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1980      1985
A.  CONSTANI' 1974 PRICES
(Millions of Dollars)
1. Food                         11.6     44.5      66.0     276.4      195,1     183.8     166.6     167.2
2. Other Consumer Goods         24.7    291.9     206.1     422.9      489.8     471.9     4E8.9     581.8
3. Petroleum                   267.8    481.1     552.6     762.9      744.8     761.7 .   932.0    1374.3
4.  Intermediate Goods         379.7     690X1    848.5     1151.8    1309.7    1323.0    1607.5    2386.1
5.  Capital Goods              607.0    959.6     1044.0    1163.6    1484.5    1471.3    1697.3    2327.6
6. Total Goods (c.i.f.)       1290.8    2467.2   2717.1     3777.6    4223.9    4211.7    4892.3    6837.0
7. Non-Factor Services         231.8    303.3     104.4     400.0      404.8     415.8     472.5     634.1
8.  Total Goods & NFS         1522.6    2770.5   2821.5    4177.6     4628.7    4627.5    5364.8    7471.1
B. PRICE INDJCES 1974 = 100
1.  Food                        60.2     56.6      69.9     100.0       83.0     87.0      113.0     153.0
2.  Other Consumer Goods        79.4      72.2     106.3     100.0     114.5     121.9     164.2     230.3
3. Petroleum                    23.9     32.2      40.1      1100.0    109.2     118.4     159.1     223.2
4.  Intermediate Goods          83.3     64.2       79.2     100.0     111.9     119.2     160.5     225.1
S.  Capital Goods              58.8      75.9      88.8      100.0     117.2     124.8     168.1     235.7
6.  Total Goods tc.i.f.)       59.2      63.3      76.8      100.0     112.3     319.5     161.6     226.2
7. Non-Factor Services          58.8     74.9      88.8      100.0     114.5     121.9     164.2     230.3
8.  Total Goods & NFS          59.1      64.6       77.2     100.0     112.5     120.1     161.R     227.3
C. CURRENT VALUES
(Millions of Dollars)
1.  Food                        6.9      25.2      46.1     276.4      161.9     159.9     188.3     255.8
2. Other Consumer Goods         19.6    210.8     219.1     422.9      560.9     575.2     802.8    1339.9
3. Petroleum                   64.0      154.9    221.6      762.9     813.3     901.9    1482.8    3067.5
4.  Intermediate Goods         316.3     443.5     672.3    1151.8    1465.6    1557.7    2580.1    5317.1
S.  Capital Goods             356.9     728.3     927.1     1163.6    1739.8    1836.2    2853.2    5486.1
6. Total Goods (c.i.f.)        763.7    1562.7    2086.3    3777.6    4741.4    5r10.9    7907.2   15466.4
7. Non-Factor Services         136.3    227.3      92.7     400.0      463.5     506.9     775.8    1460.4
8.  Total Goods & NFS         900.0    1790.0     2179.0    4177.6    5204.9    5537.8    8683.0   16926.8
country Programs Department It
l:urope, .Middle East and North Africa Region



ANN'1X I
Page 5 of 6
E XP   RT _) _ T A T L
1968    1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1980      1983
A. CONSTANT 1974 PRICES
(Millions of Dollars)
1. 1.  Cotton                         641.0   495.6    698.2     235.3     376.0     511.0     561.5     717.1
2. Tobacco                         231.2   221.5    198.4     204.5     130.9     193.8     212.9     271.7
3. Hazelnuts (Filberts)            142.1   146.0    134.3     173.2     138.8     191.8     210.8     269.1
4.  R                                             i       :lns  42.3  69.2  113.2  53.9  56.6  75.8  83.3  106.3
5.  M       and Quarry Products     60.1    45.2     47.6      79.0      70.3      94.2     124.8     201.0
2.    NMaufactured Goods              135.8   402.0    642.4     601.3     445.8     601.7     "51.7    1913.9
3.     All Other Goods                120.9   185.9    260.2     185.0     163.1     236.6     374.f     752.2
4.     Total Goorls (f.o.b.)         1373.4  1565.4   2094.3    1532.2    1381.5    1904.9    2519.0    4231.3
5.     Non:-ractor Services           130.2   297.1    279.4     590.8     665.2     718.7     916.9    1410.8
6.    'fotal Goods and NFS           1503.6  1862.5   2373.7    2123.0    2046.7    2623.6    3435.9    5642.1
B. PR, ICh IN'DICES (1974 = ]00)
1. 1. Cotton                           21.7    38.6     43.8     100.0      60.0      75.7      94.1     131.9
-. n o1- lcc                        41.0    59.1     67.0     100.0     140.0     147.7     196.0     274.9
3. ll'zelnuts                       53.5    79.8     90.6     100.0     110.0     117.2     157.8     221.3
4. R.iriIns                         53.4    44.1     50.1     100.0      80.0      85.2     114.7     160.9
5.  tinjig and Qu.irrv Plroducts    43.4    77.2     87.6     100.0     150.0     159.8     215.1     301.7
2.     Nanufactured Go.ods             46.9    59.0     67.0     100.0     111.9     119.2     160.5     225.1
3.     All Other G;oods                61.3    77.2     87.6     100.0     114.5     121.9     164.2     230.3
4.    'I'otal G(ods (f.o.b.)           76.1    56.5     62.9     100.:)    101.3     11].2     150.2     215.2
5.     Non-Factor Services             59.9    75.4     85.5     100.0     114.5     121.9     164.2     230.3
6.     Total Goods and NfS             38.2    59.5     65.6     100.0     105.5     114.1     153.9     219.0
C.  CURRENT VAILUES
(M,illionms of lIosllors)
1. 1. Cotton                          139.1   191.3    305.8     235.3     225.6     386.8    528.4      945.9
2. Tobacco                          94.8   130.9    132.9     204.5     183.3     286.2     417.3     747.0
3. Hazelnuts                        76.0   116.5    121.7     173.2     154.1     224.8     332.7     595.6
4.  Raisins                         22.6    30.5     56.7      53.9      45.3      64.6     '95.6     171.1
5.  Mining and Quarry Products      26.1    35.1     41.7      79.0     105.5     150.6    268.5      (.06,.4
2.     Mantf.acLured Goods             63.7   237.2    430.4     601.3     498.8     717.2    1527.2   4 308.2
3.     All (utber ioods                74.1   143.5    227.9     185.0     186.7     288.4    614.1     1732.'
4.    1l,tal Goods (f.o.b.)           496.4   885.0   1317.1    1532.2    1399.3    21]8.6    3783.7    9!!)f. 5
5.     No!in-Iactor Services           78.0   224.0    238.9     590.8     761.7     876.1    1505.6    324(!1
C.     Total Goods and NFS            574.4  1109.0   1556.0    2123.0    2161.0    2994.7    5289.3   12355.-
Coantry Programs Department II
Europe, Middle East and Norrh Africn region



*  *  .-a-..car.c  .  5.   . .  .... 
-  -:~~~~~~~  -          -  ;Z      Z
----       ......                                      -s.c                 m .
-     a                           . .     -           a                          .  SZ..     LIZ      
..   .   ..... ... 2.
*  .aa  -                    a  .  .~~~~~~~~~:  ...      -  C
-  a  -      a      . .                 a                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  L  L '. L  Z.L 
0      a                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~-0                               a~~~~~~~~~~~~M
-  -        -                                  .



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Loan of                                                                 Amount
Credit                                                         (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year    Borrower                Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirteen loans and eight credits fully disbursed                203.1   92.3
587-TU   1969    Republic of Turkey      Seyhan Irrigation
STAGE II               12.0             0.6
236-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Livestock I                    4.5     0.9
748-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey     Education               13.5            7.3
762-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable    10.0            5.7
257-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable           15.0     1.5
281-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Irrigation Rehab.             18.0     4.5
817-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Steel Mill Expansion   76.0           12.5
844-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Water Supply  37.0           24.4
324-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Urban Dev.            2.3     0.8
845-TUL= 1972    IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry    42.0            6.8
330-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey     Livestock II                   16.0    10.8
873-TU   1972    TSKB                    Industry               40.0            0.3
883-TU   1973    Republic of Turkey     Ceyhan Aslantas         44.0           44.0
360-TU   1973    Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas               30.0    10.9
892-TU   1973    Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Power Dist.   14.0           12.9
893-TU   1973    Turkish State Railway  Railway Project         47.0           15.4
957-TU   1974    Republic of Turkey     Antalya Forestry        40.0           14.8
1023-TU   1974    TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power        148.0          134.8
1024-TU   1974    DYB                     Industry               40.0           21.1
1078-TU   1975    TSKB                    Industry               65.0           39.8
1130-TU   1975    Republic of Turkey      Rural Development      75.0           73.9
1248-TU   1976    Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit      63.0           63.0
1258-TU   1976    State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint               70.0           64.8
1265-TU   1976    Republic of Turkey      Livestock III          21.5           21.5
1194-TU   1976    TEK                     Power Transmission II  56.0           56.0
1310-TU   1976    Republic of Turkey      Tourism                26.0           26.0
Total                                        1143.1  178.1   675.0
of which has been repaid                     95.8    2.6
Total now outstanding                        1047.3  175.5   675.0
Amount sold                     3.6
of which has been repaid      1.2             2.4    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b            1044.9  175.5
Total undisbursed                             645.6   29.4   675.0
/a  Includes $18.0 million approved on April 15, 1975.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor         Type of Business         Loan     Equity      Total
1964      TSKB           DFC                        -        0.92        0.92
1966      SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                0.90      0.47        1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                        -        0.34        0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                        -        0.41        0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                1.50      0.43        1.93
1970      Viking I       Pulp and Paper            2.50      0.62        3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                    10.00      1.58       11.58
1971      NASAS          Aluminum                  7.00      1.37        8.37
1971      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn                0.75       -          0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper             -        0.05        0.05
1972      SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                          0.52        0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DFC                        -        0.43        0.43
1973      TSKB V          DFC                     10.00       -         10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourism                   0.33      0.27        0.60
1974      Borusan         Steel Pipes              3.60      0.44        4.04
1974      AKSA           Textiles                 10.00       -         10.00
1975      Kartaltepe     Textiles                  1.30       -          1.30
1975      Sasa           Nylon Yarn               15.00       -         15.00
1975      Aslan           Cement                  10.60       -         10.60
1975      DOKTAS          Steel                    7.50      1.14        8.64
1975      TSKB           DFC                      25.00      1.30       26.30
1976      NASAS          Aluminum                  1.58       -          1.58
1976      TSKB           DFC                      25.00       -         25.00
1976      Asil Celik      Steel                   12.00      3.30       15.30
Total Gross Commitments                144.56     13.59     158.15
Less Cancellations, Terminations,        -
Repayments and Sales                  69.47      2.94      72.41
Total Commitments now held by IFC       75.09     10.65      85.74
Total Undisbursed                       15.20      5.07      20.27



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
A.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587/143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 million
Loan and US$12 million Credit of February 20, 1969. Effective Date: June 17,
1969. Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Work on Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project is being performed
in a satisfactory manner, and the project is expected to be completed by the
end of 1977. As regards the training component, an integrated training pro-
gram for TOPRAKSU, the Agriculture Extension Service and DSI has been prepared
and is in the process of being implemented by the Government. Cost recovery
is the main problem but the Government has agreed to prepare recommendations
for implementation of proposals contained in the water charges study.
Cr. No. 236 First Livestock Project: US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Effective Date: December 23, 1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project funds are fully committed, and 152 subborrowers will benefit
under the Credit. This falls short of the 250-300 estimated at appraisal due
mainly to price increases. Imported cattle have performed well in excess of
appraisal estimates. Overall, the project has been successful in establishing
a nucleus of over 3,000 high-quality dairy animals in Turkey, providing a
valuable basis for upgrading the national herd; also setting up demonstration
farms, building infrastructure, and in promoting dairy modernization through
provision of credit and supporting technical services to dairymen.
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due mainly to initial
reluctance to provide the project unit with adequate qualified staff and author-
ity commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is now
proceeding well and disbursements are expected to continue at a high level.
The overall educational objectives of the project are now receiving adequate
attention. Regulations for establishing national and local advisory committees
for vocational and technical education have been approved. Interim actions
have been taken regarding operation and staffing of the Management Training
Institute, pending passage of legislation formally establishing it.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
Loan and US$15 million Credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19, 1972.
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Citrus development and its financing, substantially behind schedule,
are now gaining momentum. An efficient system of extension has been estab-
lished and there is strong demand for credits for orchard rehabilitation and
development.   Construction of marketing facilities is proceeding satisfac-
torily. A contract has been signed for the purchase of a Ro/Ro ferryship
under this Project. The refrigerated trailer and towing units component have
been fully implemented.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Project construction schedules were revised in 1973 and reviewed
in 1975, with the new completion dates for Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat sub-
projects being more than two years behind the original schedule. Progress on
construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works at Silifke
and Tokat is now proceeding well, but on-farm works are still behind schedule
at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season. The training
program has been developed and is in the process of being implemented.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, r972. Closing Date: December 31,1977.
The project is nearly three years behind original schedule, due to
delays in beginning procurement, stemming largely from inefficient management.
The management situation, which had shown encouraging signs of improvement,
has again become a matter of concern due to changes in Board of Directors and
removal of the President of the company. Due to an increase in prices approved
by the Government, the project's cash requirements for 1976 will be met. How-
ever, the company still needs substantial financing for meeting the large
cost overruns for the project. Government is actively exploring ways to cover
the expected 1977 shortfall, including steps to find a long-term solution to
this problem.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The supply of water for Istanbul has increased by 69 percent since
1971, and water supply to the Asian side has doubled in the past year, but
shortages persist, particularly for municipalities adjacent to Istanbul.
Project progress is about one year behind appraisal estimates, but is now
reasonable. ISI's Board is expected to decide shortly on the recommendations
of its management and accounting consultants. It is tackling the problem of a
continuing high percentage of unaccounted for water by a large-scale program
of meter replacement. Meanwhile, a request for increased tariffs remains
under Government consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning
and urban transport/land use modeling studies, also work on wastewater and
bus/traffic engineering and control projects. Plans for Phase II are cur-
currently being prepared.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1977.
The project is expected to be completed by March 1977, represent-
ing a 5-6 month delay compared to the original schedule. The estimated cost
to complete shows an increase from $130 million to $145.9 million of which
$2.2 million is in foreign exchange. The cost overrun will be covered by the
Government, the State Investment Bank and the shareholders.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million Credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The fattening subproject is progressing satisfactorily and almost
all funds have been committed. The Village Livestock Development (VSD) sub-
project is behind schedule, due mainly to difficulties encountered in recruit-
ing both local and expatriate specialist staff because of the low salaries and
side benefits offered by the Directorate of Livestock Development Projects.
However, as a result of somewhat increased incentive and an intensified re-
cruitment effort, the local technical staffing has virtually reached current
overall requirements. Potential candidates for two vacant individual expert
posts are being considered, but the conditions of service offered may prove
unattractive. Only about 300 subloans have been approved out of over 5,000
applications, but as a result of recent additional staff a substantial accel-
eration of VSD lending is anticipated and LDP is making concerted efforts to
channel more credits to small producers.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date:
March 20, 1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After initial delays due to difficulties in engaging a suitable
engineering consulting firm, good progress is now being made and about 9,000
ha are equipped for irrigation. The State Hydraulic Works (DSI) have appointed
a board of consultants for construction of the Aslantas dam and power plant.
TOPRAKSU has received all on-farm development equipment and work progress is
satisfactory. The Government has agreed to meet cost overruns. The training
component is now being implemented.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now about 80% completed. Costs have
increased by nearly 140 percent over appraisal estimates. Consultant studies
of the Istanbul power market and proposed reorganization of the company's
electricity and transport services have been completed; a study of its gas
operations is underway. The Government is reviewing proposals on how it will
cover the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
After tariffs have been raised twice since the loan was made, the
Borrower continues to fall short of meeting many of the financial and op-
erating targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-
1975, and other provisions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements have not
been carried out as scheduled. Track renewals, rolling stock, and locomo-
tive production, the latter financed by another external lending institution,
were accelerated in 1975 and 1976, and in physical terms the project is sub-
stantially completed. About two-thirds of the loan has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya Forestry Project: US$40 million loan of January 28,
1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
A President's Memorandum covering the needed changes in the agree-
ments arising from a site relocation was circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 27, 1976 and subsequently approved. The loan was declared effective
on May 26, 1976, following finalization of the amendments with the Government.
Construction has begun at the new site and the project is expected to be com-
pleted by the end of 1978, about 2 years behind the original schedule. The
cost overruns are being met by the Government and the State Investment Bank.
Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred, and a cor-
rective program has been initiated.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30,
1982.
The loan was declared effective on June 1, 1976, following increases
in bulk supply tariffs and other measures agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank, permitting disbursements to begin also under the loans from EIB
and KfW, who co-finance the project with the Bank; the Goverment is arrang-
ing additional financing. Although engineering and contracting are proceed-
ing, project implementation is delayed, and faces critical problems for lack
of staff, efficient management, effective coordination among various agencies
and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. The Bank and co-lenders
reviewed the situation in January 1977 with the Turkish authorities, who
agreed to take immediate remedial measures.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1978.
Submission of subprojects has been virtually completed. Ten proj-
ects totaling about $38.5 million have now been approved and disbursements
increased rapidly in the first half of 1976. Project implementation has been
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan brings Bank lending to TSKB to $233 million. Contrary
to what was anticipated in this loan, TSKB has encountered difficulties
in mobilizing additional domestic and foreign resources of finance. How-
ever, TSKB is channelling a significant portion of its lending to Turkey's
underdeveloped regions.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975; Effective Date: January 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan was declared effective following establishment of the
project extension service and after the appointment of a project director
and two deputies. Recruitment of extension staff and some construction work
have commenced.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The original effectiveness date of September 14, 1976 has been
postponed three times to April 30, 1977 at the request of the Government to
permit the Government and TEK to meet before effectiveness certain financial
requirements under their agreements with the Bank.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$63 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
The original date for effectiveness of Septenber 1, 1976, has been
postponed three times to May 2, 1977 at allow for time to execute the required
interageny arrangements.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Original date for effectiveness of November 30, 1976, has been
extended twice to May 31, 1977 to provide additional time for the Government
to meet the conditions of effectiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment Bank)
Guarantor:          Republic of Turkey
Loan Amount:         US$70 million equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms and
Conditions:        Repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
of the amortization schedules for sub-loans and invest-
ments for which withdrawals from the loan account are
approved or requested. Sub-loans should be repaid over
a maximum period of 17 years including up to 3 years of
grace. Interest at _ percent per year, with a commit-
ment charge of 3/4 of one percent on the principal amount
of the loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Relending Terms:     The Borrower will on-lend at an interest rate of 12.5
percent per annum; amortization depends on individual
sub-projects, and is expected to range from 10 to 15
years. The sub-borrower will bear the foreign exchange
risks in respect of the Bank loan.
The Project:         The objective of the proposed project is to further
strengthen and broaden DYB's capacity and role in the
investment process and the financing of industrial
projects to be undertaken by Turkey's State Economic
Enterprises. These include investments in manufactur-
ing, processing industries and non-fuel mining, and
will assist DYB in financing the foreign exchange cost
of its sub-projects in those sectors.
Financing Plan:      (1976-1979 in TL million)
1976    1977    1978    1979
Disbursements                   6,236   7,234   9,404  10,815
Financed by:
Net Income                     935    1,204   1,502   1,952
Depreciation                     1        1       1       1
Loan Collections               961    1,002   3,380   4,063
Bond Issues                  3,945    4,667   4,211   4,369
IBRD Borrowings                235      360     310     430
Other Borrowings               159       -       -       -



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (in TL million)
Liabilities & Equity
1976      1977      1978       1979
Current Liabilities             4,004.0   4,341.0   4,711.0    5,130.0
Long-term Debts
(net of current maturities) 31,312.0   35,370.0  38,680.0  42,085.0
Equity                          2,569.0   3,216.0   4,058.0    5,169.0
Earnings
Gross Income                    3,486.0   4,126.0   4,907.0    5,757.0
Financial  Expenses             2,525.0   2,876.0   3,337.0    3,710.0
Administrative   Expenses          25.0      45.1      67.1       94.0
Profits before tax as
% of Net Worth                   38.3      41.6      41.3       42.3
Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio         7.8       7.5        7.0       6.3
DISBURSEMENTS (Bank's Financial Year, US$'000)
FY77     FY78     FY79      FY80     FY81
1,000    13,000   32,000    20,000   4,000
Procurement:   Through normal commercial channels, but with comparison of
offers from more than one supplier.
Consultants:   None.
Appraisal      No. 1300-TU, dated December 10, 1976, issued by the IC/DFC
Report:        Division, EMENA Region



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:
Timetable of Key Events
(a) Pre-appraisal
DYB Mission to the Bank to discuss the project March 8 - 12, 1976
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure                      July 9, 1976
(c)  Negotiations Completed                           November 24,1976
(d)  Final Agreement by Government                    February 18, 1977
(e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                       4 months after signing.
Section II:
Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:
Special Conditions
(a) not less than twelve sub-projects will be submitted above
the free limit of $2,000,000 (para 39 (d));
(b) the debt service coverage ratio will be at least 1.3
(para 50);
(c) at the request of the Bank, DYB will exchange views
with the Bank on the appropriateness of relending rates
of interest on sub-loans (para 26);
(d) sub-loan will be normally not more than $9 million
equivalent (para 39 (b)).



25-                           30.                          3'5                          40O
BULGARIA                                 Black                  Sea
_/   0k                                                  a                                    U.  S.  S.  R.
r    KIRKLAREL°
LU   f 9 )   TEKITDAK      I                    AS     IN(OP                 /-_ 
0    IS TANBUL            ON   "KI A R  oEA  o
IstKnbu   0          0 .  R             OAM S     5UN  BLACS  -  ,--'         / _
c:2;)Sea of Marmar AdiS   0
oMARM'AFR  J\CANKIRI                                  MA YA?)  t  1 I  ) ORDU S eGIR ESUNILN     KARS
iD tt2 ,< I  N brACYA  0  PC O N V  \\NIGDEX       /MARA5 A      A>0 / { ~~~~~~~~~~~~ EDB KIR /  O  -A-(/ AAR
SA                               COU       _J TOK    '    S- R E G 10 N UAINTE 40- 
CNKKALE0                                                                     ,GUMUSHANE
NKARA                                   /HATAYTUURUKM
ssi1  I    "       °   REGI                        ONS KUTAHYA  CNYOZGAT  1AERNS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CENTR LREO DEEOE .d yldb 
_ 3I                                                             e    M  /   t iR A  \ CNRSEHI R E  DASTEVRE OP tm  sy l RAN
K  o  APYO' ' CYPRUS
K101EE S AK                                                          -  -- - INENTOA           VANDAlS  
0  50  100  KA YSE R I                                 IT                c A
oc   IZM IR   II-E                                                                                  Ih hzaL es  IO h  p }Not 
MALP'YA N---            \-- R/Td S
-~~~~~  AYDIN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  0N  YA  N/GDE                        r  DIYARBAKIR /\
/~~~~~ ~~)DENIZL'-  I~' /SAT                            M RAS  /  -  `                    SIv- ~ (- ~ IRT 
()   ~~~~~~~ION  o  A                                                0                              HAKKARI
BURDURgs k                                                            AR 
MUGLA                                        A~DAN        ,-          R_         MA/RDRA
AJ~~~~~~~TALYA                                o                 -~~~~~~~~D~   AIR  
U                                GAZI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?'J~2 (; _TEP>N   .A
I CE L 7 ~~~~~ ~~HATA                 TURKEY
~~ p  ~~~REGIONS AND GROWTH CENTERS
'4            ~~  ~~~~~~~0 CENTERS ALREADY DEVELOPED
/L4ea',e rr ea n    Se a                        --sSYI                             DEVELOPING CENTERS
35'                                          S  Y  R  I A       0~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CENTERS TO BE DEVELOPED
CYPRUS'      'fREGIONAL BOUNDARIES
100   200     300                                                                                            DuW
KILOMETERS                                           --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0  5     100  ISO   2100
MILES                                                                     40-41~               ~     ,r~   .
300'                              1                                                  ,,,p4h0,', 



