CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 13T9 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second DYB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Dated March 23, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI (hereinafter called the Borrower), a
State Economic Enterprise established and operating under the laws
of the Republic of Turkey.


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Entity for an Investment Project, all in accordance with the
Statement of Policies and Procedures;
8
(b) "Enterprise" means a state economic enterprise or a public
economic enterprise, established and organized under the laws of
the Guarantor;
(c) "Establishment" means an establishment of an Enterprise,
established and organized under the laws of the Guarantor;


﻿-3-
(d) "Investment Entity" means an Enterprise and/or Establish-
ment, which carries out and manages an Investment Project, to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Entity utilizing the pro-
ceeds of a Sub-loan;
(f) "liras" and "TL" mean the currency of the Guarantor;
(g) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor;
(h) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower as defined
in Law No. 441, of 1964, of the Guarantor, including the regula-
tions issued pursuant to the said law by Decree No. 7/8568 of the
Guarantor's Council of Ministers, dated July 9, 1974 and promulgated
in the Guarantor's Official Gazette No. 14960 on July 29, 1974, as
such Statutes and Regulations may be amended from time to time;
(i) "Statement of Policies and Procedures" means the State-
ment of Lending Policies and Procedures for the Project set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time;
CQ) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan agree-
ment between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the date of
this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for there-
in; and


﻿-4-
(k) "T. C. Merkez Bankasi" means Tirkiye Cumhuriyet Merkez
Bankasi, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 1211 promulgated in the official
Gazette of the Republic of Turkey No. 13409 of January 26, 1970
as amended.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy million
dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an
Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to
be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project, to finance
the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and services re-
quired under a Sub-loan for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan (i) unless the
Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the Sub-
loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $2,000,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior Loan for
such Investment Project or (ii) $14,000,000 equivalent, when added
to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject
to change from time to time as determined by the Bank after con-
sultation with the Borrower.


﻿- 6-
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
made by an Investment Entity in respect of a Sub-loan, subject to
the Bank's approval, if such expenditures shall have been made be-
fore the date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
Sub-loan the application and information required by Section 2.03
(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit Sub-loan, more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information
acquired by Section 2.03 (b); and (ii) expenditures in liras, or
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territory of
the Guarantor.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Entity and
an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, in-
cluding the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿-7-
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(i) applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the
Bank on or before March 31, 1979; and (ii) not less than 12 such
applications, to be made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, shall be presented to the Bank by March 31, 1979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans, which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account


﻿-8-
undcr Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take into account
any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made on
May 1 and November 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule
1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment,
if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i) shall not extend
beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Bank of such
Sub-loan, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authoriza-
tion by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in re-
spect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or mre frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made in respect
of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed


﻿-9-
of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest
payment date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1
to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08
(a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account
in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturi--
ties of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Turkey as will contribute to the economic and social developments
of the country. The Project consists in the financing of specific
development projects through loans to Tnvestment Entities in manu-
facturing or processing industries and in non-fuel mining, in ac-
cordance with the Statutes and the Statement of Policies and Pro-
cedures, and in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Bor-
rover as therein set forth.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel
in adequate numbers and in accordance with the Statutes and State-
ment of Policies and Procedures.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Entity or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Entity to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with, inter alia, appropriate technical, financial,
.  ......I


﻿- 11 -
marketing and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them, and (2) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) examine, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that (1) the Investment En-
tity shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with appropriate business practice, and (2) without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of their use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made freely usable by the Investment Entity to replace or re-
pair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Entity; (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the
Investmi-nt Entity to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon fai-
lure by such Investment Entity to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower; (vii) require the Investment Entity to
furnish the Borrower as soon as available but in any case no later


﻿- 12 -
than April 30 in each year, copies of its provisional financial
statements to be prepared in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied, and to be in such detail as the
Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and (viii) require the
Investment Entity to furnish the Borrower as soon as available
copies of its certified financial statements.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the In-
vestment Entities, the Investment Projects, and the Sub-loans.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, or management. The Bor-
rower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.


﻿(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no
cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Bor-
rover shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) conduct its operations and affairs in such a manner as
shall be necessary to maintain a ratio of at least 1.3 to 1 between
(i) payments of loan principal, interest and other charges from
its debtors (hereinafter called Loan Receipts) and (ii) payments
of loan principal (excluding frozen deposits of T.C. Merkez Bankasi,
if any), interest and other charges to its creditors (hereinafter
called Debt Payments);


﻿- 15 -
(b) promptly after the end of each fiscal year, calculate the
ratio in paragraph (a) above on the basis of actual Loan Receipts
and Debt Payments for each such fiscal year and project it for each
of the two following fiscal years on the basis of scheduled Loan
Receipts and Debt Payments for loans and debts outstanding as of
the beginning of such following period of two fiscal years; and
(c) whenever the ratio in paragraph (a) above shall fall below
the limit referred to therein or whenever there is reason to believe
that such ratio cannot be expected to be met over the following
twelve months, promptly (i) consult with the Guarantor and the Bank
on such action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within the required limit by the end of the Borrower's current
fiscal year, and (ii) implement such action.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including liras) used in its operations.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to review the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 16 -
Section 4.08. At the request of the Bank, the Borrower shall,
without limitation or restriction to the generality of the pro-
visions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, exchange views
with the Bank on the appropriateness of annual rates of interest
charged on Sub-loans.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual in-
struments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes which will
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or opera-
tions of the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would materially and adversely affect
the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's finan-
cial situation or the efficiency of the Borrower's management
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of July 21, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
Milli Mudafaa Caddesi No. 20
Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:
YATIRIMBANK
Ankara


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above vritten.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
By /s/ Asaf GrIven
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)**
November 1, 1980                                 1,350,000
May 1, 1981                                      1,405,000
November 1, 1981                                 1,465,000
May 1, 1982                                      1,525,000
November 1, 1982                                 1,590,000
May 1, 1983                                      1,66o,ooo
November 1, 1983                                 1,730,000
May 1, 1984                                      1,805,000
November 1, 1984                                 1,880,000
May 1, 1985                                      1,960,000
November 1, 1985                                 2,045,000
May 1, 1986                                      2,130,000
November 1, 1986                                 2,220,000
May 1, 1987                                      2,315,000
November 1, 1987                                 2,415,000
May 1, 1988                                      2,515,000
November 1, 1988                                 2,625,000
May 1, 1989                                      2,735,000
November 1, 1989                                 2,850,000
May 1, 1990                                      2,970,000
November 1, 1990                                 3,100,000
May 1, 1991                                      3,230,000
November 1, 1991                                 3,370,000
May 1, 1992                                      3,510,000
November 1, 1992                                 3,660,000
May 1, 1993                                      3,815,000
November 1, 1993                                 3,980,000
May 1, 1994                                      4,145,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.50%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                    7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section
2.03 of the Loan Agreement no applications permitted
under paragraph (a) of such Section shall have been received
by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having
been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the


﻿-24 -
Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to
submit such applications or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Lending Policies and
Procedures for the Project
Sub-loans to Investment Entities for Investment Projects shall
conform to the following:
A.   Investment Projects will be for development proj-
ects primarily in manufacturing or processing in-
dustries and, to a limited extent, in non-fuel
mining.
B.   Sub-loans for each Investment Project will normally:
(i) be made directly to the Investment Entity; (ii)
include a foreign currency cost component of up to
$9 million equivalent; (iii) cover a foreign cur-
rency cost component amounting to at least 10% of
the total -osts; and (iv) be made for an Investment
Project which is expected to yield reasonable
economic and financial rates of return.
C.   For each Investment Project, the Borrower and the
Investment Entity, at the time of making the Sub-
loan, will, in a legally binding manner, agree:
(i) on the entire amount of the financing for such
Investment Project; and (ii) on the terms and con-
ditions of such financing.


﻿- 26 -
D.   In the appraisal of each Investment Project and in the
corresponding reports submitted to the Bank pursuant
to Section 2.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
will: (a) analyse, in addition to the financial, manage-
ment, marketing and technical aspects of the project,
(1) the economic benefits of the project, (2) the ability
of the Investment Entity (i) to manage the construction
and operation of the Investment Project effectively and
(ii) to provide the necessary internal financing for the
carrying out of the Investment Project, and (3) where
appropriate, the ecological aspects of the project; and
(b) review the procurement procedures to be followed by
the Investment Entity to ensure procurement of goods
and services for the Investment Project in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement.
E.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the proceeds of
the Loan relent under Sub-loans will be repayable in
the same currencies as the corresponding principal
amount of the Loan, and will carry interest, payable
in the same currencies as the principal, at an annual
rate of not less than 12.5% of the principal amount
outstanding.
F.   Each Investment Project will be subject to supervision
by the Borrower until the date on which the Sub-loan
agreement for the Sub-loan shall terminate.


