Document of
The World Bank                  FILE CEP(
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2823-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
In August 1979, the Bangladesh Taka was officially
devalued relative to the Pound Sterling to a rate of Tk 34.7 to
the Pound. The Pound Sterling now floats relative to the US Dollar
and consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change,
although it has been fairly stable for sometime at around Tk 15.5
per Dollar. The rate below has been used throughout this report
except where otherwise stated.
US$1.00        = Tk 15.5
Taka 1          = US$0.0645
Taka 1 million = US$64,516
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BCIC   -  Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
DAP    -  Diammonium Phosphate
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
IFAD   -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
HP     -  Muriate of Potash
ODA    -  Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
TSP    -  Triple Superphosphate
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman   -  Paddy planted before or during the monsoon
(which begins in June) and harvested in November
or December.
Aus    -  Paddy planted during March and April and harvested
during July and August.
Boro   -  Paddy planted in winter and harvested during April
to June.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:            US$25 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard
Purpose:           To finance the import of fertilizer and fertilizer raw
materials for FY81, to improve fertilizer distribution and
marketing, and to establish a more effective pricing system
for fertilizer. The fertilizer imports portion of the
Credit would be administered by the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation. The fertilizer raw materials por-
tion of the credit would be administered initially by the
Bangladesh Chemicals Industry Corporation and later by a
successor company to be established to operate the Chitta-
gong TSP factory. The allocation of funds between finished
fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials would be performed
by the External Resources Division of the Ministry of
Finance. A ministerial level fertilizer coordinating com-
mittee has been established to improve the planning for
fertilizer procurement and distribution. There is a risk
that fertilizer consumption could be reduced below expected
levels (e.g. due to flooding or drought reducing farmer
demand). In such circumstances, import arrivals would be
rephased to assist in meeting FY82 requirements.
Estimated                                                US$ Million
Disbursements:                                            FY81
First Quarter
Second Quarter                            8
Third Quarter                            12
Fourth Quarter                            5
Total                               25
| This document has a mstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Recommended                                               Maximum Amount of
Categories                                              the Credit that
and Ceilings:            Category                       can be withdrawn
US$ Million
Finished Fertilizer                         25.0
Fertilizer Raw Materials
(Rock Phosphate and Sulfur)               10.0
(i.e. subject to limits specified above, Bangladesh
is free to allocate US$25 million credit amount between
finished fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials).
Appraisal
Report:           None



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
fertilizer imports credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the
equivalent of US$25 million, on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-Term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically during these troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence
level only in 1975/76; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per
year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels
near minimum standards. The terms of trade worsened considerably and the
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the difficulties. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national govern-
ment from a provincial administation, and the consolidation of Government
authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy makers in the
first half of the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, has led to a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. Although it
was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence level, between
FY75-79 GDP increased (in real terms) by about 25%--an average annual rate of
6% notwithstanding setbacks to agricultural production experienced in FY77 and
again in FY79. The late 1970s may, therefore, be characterized as a period of
consolidation and economic recovery following the shocks of the early 1970s.
In recognition of its need for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended to give
the Government time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.
1/   Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Report No. P2781-BD) dated
April 24, 1980.



Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who had won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for the economy.
Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10%
increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8% in real terms, following a
2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past two years has again demon-
strated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy. During this
period, economic developments were dominated and largely determined by the
consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and floods.
These conditions affected adversely both the foodgrain crops (which represent
roughly one-third of GDP) and the quality of the jute crop; they also had
repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation, which was aggra-
vated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid rises in rice
prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth in FY79 slowed
sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually, real per capita income
rose only minimally. On the positive side, FY79 was characterized by a contin-
uing strong performance of the construction sector, improved budgetary perform-
ance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of
significant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of exchange rate
management and public sector pricing. Due to the continuing effect of the
1978-79 drought, the outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth will be about 4-5%,
i.e., well below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor Cr7OpS in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY79 was considerably (7%) below the previous year's level.
Together with a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of food aid during
the first half of CY79, this resulted in a fall in per capita availability of
food and in an increase in rice prices to levels unrecorded since the food
crisis of FY75. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement from the small
crops and high offtakes from the public grain distribution system led to a
rapid depletion of public food stocks which fell to the dangerously low level
of only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort to import and distribute the massive volume of
foodgrains needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and December 1979. This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.



- 3 -
Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the other sectors
of the economy was held to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other bulk commodities and the shipment of exports were
impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain imports. Neverthe-
less, the authorities were able to unload and distribute this unprecedented
volume of foodgrain imports in a minimal amount of time, enabllng offtake to
be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more comfortable level. By the
beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices had begun to ease and what
might have become an extremely serious food crisis was averted.
9.        The slow growth of agricultural production has become the principal
focal point of concern among Bangladesh's political leadership and economic
planners. The Second Five-Year Plan is expected to give top priority--together
with population control--to agriculture, and especially to food production.
Meanwhile, the short-term food supply outlook is still problematic, although
the public stock position at the end of CY79 was adequate because of the
substantial imports between July 1979 and December 1979. The 1979/80 aman
crop, also affected by the drought, was no better than last year's, and pro-
curement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price increase--
was very small. In order to avert a repetition of the CY79 situation, consid-
erable additional imports will be needed in CY80. The prospects for the FY80
boro and wheat crops appear favorable, but efforts to ensure an adequate stock
of foodgrain to meet 1980 consumption and stock build-up requirements cannot
yet be relaxed. A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in
late January 1980 to consider the country's food situation, import requirements
and policy measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent experi-
ence. A Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues," prepared for
consideration at that meeting, was distributed to the Executive Directors in
December 1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in the
balance of payments, as the need to finance commercial purchases of food
imports was evidently a factor underlying the Government's rather cautious
implementation of its import program. Other factors included a slow rate of
utilization of import licenses during the latter part of the fiscal year. As
a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies.  The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were still
not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the projected
levels of FY80. A substantial increase in the current account deficit is
projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported crude oil and
petroleum products and other imports. Reserves at the end of FY80 are likely
to be equivalent to scarcely one month's projected FY81 imports.
1/ Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in
value in FY79 and the terms of trade improved somewhat during the year, the
trade deficit widened to $1 billion. The value of raw jute exports increased
by 47% over the previous year's receipts, reflecting increases in both volume
and prices. Export earnings from jute manufactures rose by 11% in FY79, as a
decline in export volume was more than offset by an increase in unit prices.
Relatively large gains were also recorded in exports of leather, fish and
shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the notable developments on
the import side in FY79 was the decline in food imports, owing mainly to the
delays in food aid arrivals noted above. Capital goods imports rose by 21% to
US$384 million; fertilizer imports nearly doubled in value, and there were
significant increases also in imports of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The current account deficit in FY79 was considerably smaller than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of workers' remit-
tances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most important
source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. A
notable development was the US$100 million increase in project aid disburse-
ments in FY79, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity.
Total aid disbursements, which exceeded US$1 billion for the first time, were
equivalent to 63% of total merchandise imports. Debt service payments rose to
US$95 million, notwithstanding some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, and the debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in
FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of ex-
change rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's financing require-
ments in FY80.
14.       The terms of trade are expected to remain unchanged in FY80 as
rising export prices for jute goods have helped to offset the impact of ris-
ing petroleum and other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports are
expected to increase by about 24% and imports by over 50% in value; foodgrain
and petroleum purchases alone will account for over three quarters of the
increase in imports. The FY80 current account deficit is expected to be
largely covered by disbursements of approximately $400 million in food aid,
$500 million in commodity aid and between $450-500 million in project aid--
a total aid disbursement of about $1.4 billion (i.e., roughly 35% more than
in FY79). The FY81 balance of payments situation is likely to be quite
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



- 5 -
difficult even if commodity aid availabilities increase substantially. The
terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly an
expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. The FY81 current accout deficit, therefore, could well be on the
order of $1.8 billion.
Public Finance
15.       The public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve
further in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus
to the development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as rela-
tive terms. Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a
source of budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless,
inflation has again become a serious problem, and the implementation of many
projects, both aid-supported and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insuf-
ficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds. Further improvements in the
mobilization of domestic resources are urgently needed if the ratio of public
investment to GDP is to be raised above the 8-10% level of recent years.
16.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). Reflecting its growing awareness of the problem, the Govern-
ment impaneled a Taxation Enquiry Commission and five special committees to
review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) eco-
nomic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input sub-
sidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial
performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have concluded their
work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted
to the Government in April 1979.
17.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the interim
report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax
administration, have been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the
Government increased railway fares, and in the course of FY79 and FY80 it
raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and commodity sales
prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were
increased by 9-29% in August 1979 and petroleum product prices by up to 45%
in November 1979. In some cases these price adjustments only kept up with
inflation, but in others they served to reduce the subsidy burden in real
terms.
18.       Development expenditures (in current prices) increased by almost 40%
and total revenues by about 21% in FY79; development expenditures are projected
to increase by a further 29% and revenues by 21% in FY80. Increased develop-
ment activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project
aid, which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a
further 24% in FY80. As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic
budgetary deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as



well. But inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily
by too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into
FY79, especially in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very
rapidly. The cost of living (COL) index for urban consumers rose by an
estimated 19% between June 1978 and June 1979 although the average COL index
for FY79, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices, was only 9% above
that for FY78. The outlook for FY80 is that the inflation rate for the year as
a whole will be on the order of 15-16%, with liquidity rising by some 17-18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing the plans, the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade.
These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation and flood control, inade-
quate administrative capacity, low domestic resource mobilization, and social
impediments to change. The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by
the basic structural conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to
natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high rate of population
growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution of income and land owner-
ship; a high ratio of population to land; extreme fragmentation of landholdings
and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural population; high illiteracy;
poor health and short life expectancy; high unemployment and underemployment
and scarce employment possibi.i.{ti.e  outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence
on foreign aid, not only for investment financing, but also for food and other
recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in this Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of foodgrains. The potential for increasing
foodgrain output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields and cropping inten-
sity are low, and fertilizer use is still very modest. Except for last year,
when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer demand has been
growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded quickly since FY75 and
is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there seems to be a large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly food production can
be increased remains to be determined. The Plan's targets have yet to be
announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.
21.       Recent projections 1/ indicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million by the
year 2000. These projections imply that the population growth rate, currently
estimated at about 2.5-2.7% per annum, would not decline very dramatically over
the next 15 to 20 years and that a net reproduction rate of 1 would not be
reached until 2035--a grim but seemingly realistic prospect in view of the poor
implementation and limited success of birth control efforts in Bangladesh so
far. The implications of such a rate of population growth for the country's
1/   World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Table 17, pg. 158.



- 7 -
development prospects are staggering. The density of population on cultivable
land would increase from 3.8 persons per acre at present to over 6.2 persons
per acre by the end of the century. In a country where the mainstay of the
economy is agriculture and where food shortages are already serious, the
adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious. Annual foodgrain
requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption level of about
15.5 ounces per day, would increase from about 14 million tons at present to
roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. Domestic production would almost
have to double from its record level of about 1.1.9 oll611,on tons (net of seed,
feed and waste) achieved in FY78 to meet this requirement. Substantial in-
creases in cropping intensity and in yields will be required, therefore, even
to maintain food consumption at a subsistence level.
22.       A significant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic
needs and the provision of improved public services will also be extremely
difficult to achieve without a drastic reduction in the rate of population
growth. By the same token, it will become increasingly impossible to educate
the rapidly growing number of people and to provide gainful and productive
employment opportunities for them. In recognition of these factors, high
priority is being given by the Government to improving the performance of its
family planning program.
23.       Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed on the
satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate
clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The planners
recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and other
targets, but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their
achievement.
24.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improve-
ments can be made in the ability oF i-h-e administration to expedite project
implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation.
The Case for Program Assistance
25.       Even assuming that Bangladesh were to achieve far superior export
and savings levels than in the past, substantial external aid will continue
to be required for some time to finance a major part of its total development
expenditures. A large inflow of external capital has been, and will continue
to be, required merely to achieve a modest growth of per capita incomes. The
level of investment is very low even by comparison with other low-income



- 8 -
developing economies. As accounted in the budget, external assistance is
currently financing about 75% of total public development expenditure, directly
or indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated by food and commodity
aid.
26.       The corollary of the severe disequilibrium between domestic savings
and investment is the fundamental imbalance in the country's external payments
position outlined above. These structural characteristics, combined with
serious administrative weaknesses, make it impossible in the short and medium
term to transfer the amount of external assistance required solely by means of
project financing--even if such financing includes substantial provisions for
local currency expenditures.  There are limits to the extent that components
of any country's overall development program can be formed into projects
suitable for external financing; it is particularly difficult in the case of
Bangladesh where an experienced and efficient development administration does
not yet exist.
27.       Given the severe imbalances in the country's foreign trade struc-
ture, the requirements for imports of general commodities cannot be met by
foreign exchange earnings alone. Without program assistance to finance
imports of general commodities, the supply of non-agricultural goods to the
economy would be greatly reduced. In particular, production in the industrial
sector would have to be cut back substantially. Utilization of existing
industrial capacity has been improving and is now at an average level of about
65%, compared with less than 50% in FY73 and about 70% in FY70. But even with
investment in additional capacity since FY70, industrial production in FY79
was only about 30% above the FY70 level.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH 1/
28.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, as of April 30, 1980, 40 new credits have been approved,
totaling US$1,146.7 million; of these, US$575 million have been for program
credits (eight import program credits and one fertilizer imports credit).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of
April 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18,
1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and one investment for a ship-
building and engineering company has been approved.
29.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 2/  (If workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.) While
1/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Report No. P2781-BD) dated
April 24, 1980.
2/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



- 9 -
the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 bil-
lion as of Jrne 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of
IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
30.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(14 of the 31 new projects approved since independence, and one previous
lb         fertilizer imports credit).  This is consistent with the country's needs
and the Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed
on projects that provide agricultural inputs, including in particular the
provision of adequate fertilizer supplies to farmers. Emphasis is also given
to the provision of irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage
facilities, which all tend to increase the demand for fertilizer.
31.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight import program
credits approved to date. For the reasons summarized in paragraphs 25-27,
program lending will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects (see pararaphs 60 and 62), and from DFC and small-scale
industry projects. A jute industry rehabilitation project has been submitted
to the Executive Directors for consideration May 29. IFC is currently in the
process of identifying further suitable investment opportunities.
32.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower is also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training. IDA should continue to
provide assistance to critical infrastructural areas such as transportation,
energy and power, and telecommunications. A first power project was approved
in late FY79 and a second highway project was approved during FY80. A fer-
tilizer transportation project is currently under consideration.
33.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were
serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies.  Some progress has
been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture is improving.
IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervi-
sion in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing
assistance both under specific projects and under three technical assistance
credits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving planning,
project preparation and implementation capabilities.
34.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to



- 10 -
direct IDA lending to those sectors--such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment--where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
35.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within
the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area
have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and
increased domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
36.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 75% of total employment and, directly or indirectly, over 90% of the
country's exports. About 70% of agricultural value added is derived from
crops and the rest from forestry (6%), fisheries (9%) and livestock (13%).
Bangladesh has a gross area of about 35 million acres of which about 21 mil-
lion acres are cropped at a cropping intensity averaging 150% in recent years.
Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for about 80% of the gross
cropped area; jute, the principal export, for 6%, and a variety of other crops
such as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables for the remaining
14%. Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world;
the average rice yield of about 0.5 ton per ac is barely half of that for Asia
as a whole.
37.       The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural
poor in order to improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase
export earnings. The Government's strategy for the sector emphasizes strength-
ening of rural institutions, improvement of farm input supplies, better utili-
zation of existing irrigation facilities, and further expansion of irrigation
facilities through low-cost, short-gestation irrigation schemes.
Performance and Near-Term Prospects
38.       During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate
of 2.5% and foodgrain production at an annual rate of 2.4%. However, both
lagged behind the population growth rate of about 2.8%.   As a result, food-
grain imports increased from less than 0.6 million tons in FY61 to over 1.5
million tons in FY70. Due to adverse weather conditions as well as disruptions
caused by the war of liberation, production during the early 1970s remained
below FY70 levels, necessitating imports averaging 1.8 million tons per year
and accounting for about one-quarter of the total import bill. In FY78, due
to favorable weather conditions and the sharply increased supplies of fertil-
izers and other agricultural inputs, foodgrain production reached a record
13.1 million tons, some 10% above the 1970 level. Nevertheless, production
still fell short of domestic consumption requirements by 1.6 million tons.



- 11 -
39.       Jute production also declined significantly during the early 1970s
and, despite a reversal of the declining trend, the average FY78-80 production
level remained about 10% below the pre-independence level. The production of
a number of minor crops (such as sugarcane, pulses, oilseeds and potatoes) has
also remained depressed. Wheat production, however, increased about five-fold
between FY70 and FY79, and the FY80 wheat crop is expected to be more than
double the 486,000 tons achieved in FY79.
40.       Due to unfavorable weather and diesel fuel shortages (for the irri-
gated boro crop), foodgrain production in FY79--estimated at 13.0 million tons,
was below the FY78 level. The effects of the 1978/79 drought were felt well
into FY80, and the combined FY80 aus and aman crops will be about 700,000 tons
below the FY79 level. As in FY79, Government procurement from the aman crop
(the largest of the three rice crops) was again low in FY80 because of low
output and high market prices, while offtake from public grain stocks remained
exceptionally high. Total FY80 foodgrain production (at about 13.4 million
tons) is expected to be only slightly above the FY79 level, with higher (record)
boro and wheat production offsetting the lower aus and aman production. In an
effort to restore both consumption and public stock levels from their depressed
FY79 levels, the Government purchased commercially over one million tons of
foodgrain imports to supplement the 1.9 million tons provided by aid donors--
bringing total foodgrain imports for the year to an all-time record level of
nearly three million tons. Notwithstanding this level of importation, however,
the Government is unlikely to be able to achieve its target of building up the
end-June 1980 stocks to one million tons.
41.       The principal auspicious agricultural development in both FY79 and
FY80 has been the continued rapid growth of wheat production. Wheat output
rose by 42% in FY79 (from 343,000 tons in FY78 to 486,000 tons) and is
expected to reach a level of at least one million tons in FY80.
Constraints and Potential
42.       Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by the scarcity
of cultivable land, climatic hazards, insufficient irrigation facilities, and
inadequate transport facilities for moving farm inputs and produce. On the
other hand, Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a
climate suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater resources
for dry season irrigation. Also, the development of high-yielding varieties
(HYVs) of rice and wheat (which are suitable for cultivation in large areas of
Bangladesh even under rainfed conditions) has opened up the prospect of sub-
stantial increases in production that can be brought about quickly and inexpen-
sively. Much of this potential, however, has not been exploited.
43.       An important constraint is the heavy pressure of population on land.
Most land holdings in Bangladesh are small and fragmented--the average farm
size being about 2.5 acres split into seven plots. This constitutes an obsta-
cle to efficient farm management and makes the organization of cooperative
irrigation systems difficult. An additional constraint is the agricultural
tenancy arrangements. Under the customary rental arrangements the tenant is
normally expected to provide all of the inputs, but receives only about half of
the crop and has no right of occupancy. Such arrangements reduce the incentive
to develop land for irrigation or to improve farming practices.



- 12 -
44.       A number of organizational deficiencies also have affected growth
adversely. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innova-
tions. Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and
unreliable distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides, and by the absence of an effective extension system. Adequate
marketing, processing, storage and credit facilities have also been lacking.
Agricultural planning has generally been based on an extremely poor data base
and with very little feedback from operating departments, resulting in unreal-
istic targets and inflexible programs. On the implementation side, the weak-
nesses include excessive centralization of decision-making and cumbersome
administrative procedures. Despite these handicaps, the Government has made
progress in promoting improved farming technologies. From 1970 to 1979, the
acreage irrigated by modern irrigation facilities increased by 1.4 million
acres (or 170%), fertilizer consumption increased from some 280,000 tons to
740,000 tons, and the acreage sown to high-yielding varieties of grains in-
creased from about 1.0 million acres to over 4.0 million acres.
45.       Further growth in agricultural productivity is a prerequisite for
meeting many of the country's major economic objectives, including food self-
sufficiency, increased domestic resource mobilization, and accelerated overall
growth. Some of the foundations for more rapid agricultural growth have been
laid. For example, measures taken in recent years to improve input availabil-
ities and to maintain incentive output prices have been helpful in producing
the record grain crops of FY76 (12.8 million tons) and FY78 (13.1 million
tons), although much more can be done in these fields. Foodgrain procurement
prices were raised twice in 1979 and appear adequate. Recent steps to free
the distribution of fertilizer and other inputs from bureaucratic constraints
are also positive developments, both in their expected short-term effects and
as an indication of the Government's increased pragmatism in its efforts to
increase agricultural production. Other positive signs include a substantial
step-up in BADC's distribution of wheat seeds, expansion of the domestic food-
grain procurement system, the results of a joint Bangladesh/IDA review of the
Water Development Board (leading to official endorsement of a strategy empha-
sizing small, quick-yielding, low-cost investments) and progress achieved in
a joint Government/IDA exercise to produce a Medium-Term Food Production
Plan. The Government's public commitment to achieving foodgrain self-
sufficiency during the Second Five-Year Plan period should in any event lead
to an appropriate increase in the share of resources devoted to this sector.
The realization of such a target will require, above all, substantial improve-
ments in the country's capacity for implementing and monitoring programs for
delivering the various inputs and support services to the farm population.
46.       In order to accelerate the growth of foodgrain production, substan-
tial increases in irrigated acreage and in fertilizer use will have to be
realized, the former both through improved utilization of existing capacity
and the fielding of additional low-cost, short-gestation facilities utilizing
both groundwater and surface water. In the short run at least, the resources
available will not be sufficient to permit a simultaneous development of
large-scale, long-gestation projects, although projects of this type may bring
considerable benefits in terms of flood control and irrigation potential in
the long run. To increase foodgrain output from 13 million tons to about 20
million tons, for example, would require almost doubling the irrigated acreage



- 13 -
(from the present 3.9 million acres to roughly 7.2 million acres) and a more-
than-doubling of fertilizer consumption (from an estimated 850,000 tons in
FY80 to about 2 million tons). Most of the increase in irrigation will have to
come from improved utilization of existing tubewells and low-lift pumps and
from the fielding of additional facilities of this type. Given the constraints
on the public sector, the success of the effort will call for a considerably
expanded role at the private sector, as has already been done with respect to
fertilizer distribution. Not only should pumps and wells be sold to private
owners, but there should also be increased privatization of fuel delivery,
repair and maintenance operations. The fielding of smaller pumps and the
installation of smaller deep tubewells would also help improve command area
utilization, as pump groups will not have to be as large as for larger pumps.
Similarly, the sale of pumps and tubewells to the private sector is likely to
lead to an improvement in pump utilization, as private owners are likely to
seek to obtain more benefit from their investment, especially at full cost
prices.
47.       Such a substantially expanded program of supplying these inputs
would not be feasible financially if the present rates of input subsidies
remain in effect. Neither can retention of these subsidies be defended in
terms of equity considerations; in times of short supply the main beneficiaries
are not always the smaller farmers. If, as expected, the subsidies are to be
gradually phased out in the context of a program of increased supply, care will
have to be taken, however, to maintain incentive relationships between input
and output prices through effective output price support measures.
48.       At the Government's request, IDA has been working with various
Government agencies to help prepare a Medium-Term Food Production Plan. During
the Plan preparation, special attention has been paid to: the reduction of
subsidies to improve the Government's financial position; the foodgrain pro-
curement system; marketing and the maintenance incentive prices to foodgrains
and other important crops; adequate and timely supply of fertilizer, diesel
fuel, seeds and pesticides; improved provision of institutional credit; better
utilization of existing irrigation systems and equipment; expanding investments
in labor-intensive irrigation, drainage and flood control works; development of
location-specific HYVs adapted to the cropping seasons and hydrologic condi-
tions of Bangladesh; strengthening of extension services and supportive applied
research; intensified and expanded in-service training; and improved project
planning and implementation. To provide adequate and timely feedback on sectoral
performance and problems, particularly as regards production, farmgate prices
and input use, the Plan is expected to emphasize the establishment of monitoring
and evaluation cells within appropriate agencies of the Government.
PART IV - THE FERTILIZER SUB-SECTOR
49.       The policy problems affecting fertilizer marketing, distribution
and pricing discussed below are being addressed by ongoing assistance programs
of IDA and other aid donors. IDA current and proposed assistance includes:
the Fertilizer Imports Credit 944-BD of June 29, 1979; the proposed credit; a
project to assist the Government to improve production in existing plants (the



- 14 -
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Credit approved by the Executive Directors
on May 20, 1980); construction of a new plant (The Ashuganj Fertilizer Project,
Credit 529-BD of 1975); and a proposed project to improve the marketing and
distribution infrastructure (Fertilizer Transport Project, under consideration
for a credit in FY81). Assistance to this sector has also been financed under
the First and Second Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD).
Fertilizer Use in Bangladesh
50.       Chemical fertilizer was first used on a large scale in Bangladesh in
1958 and its use spread rapidly, particularly after the establishment in 1962
of the East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation, which later became
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). The principal
fertilizers used in Bangladesh are urea (46% nitrogen nutrient), TSP (46%
phosphate nutrient), MP (60% potassium nutrient), and the recently introduced
DAP (18% nitrogen and 46% phosphate nutrient). At present, urea accounts for
64%, TSP and DAP for 29%, and MP and micronutrient fertilizers for 7% of the
fertilizer used. Urea's share of total commercial fertilizer use has been
declining, a positive movement towards a more balanced application of nutrients.
51.       Fertilizer is used by all categories of farmers in Bangladesh.
Recent surveys 1/ indicate that fertilizer is used by as many as 64% to 68%
of owner-cultivators and between 43% and 63% of tenants. Although there are
no national data on the quantity used by different land tenure or farm size
categories or on the intensity of use by farm size, regional surveys suggest
that more fertilizer per acre may be used on smaller than on larger farms
and that the frequency of use may be about equal on large and small farms.
Although fertilizer use can be expected to increase as the reforms in the
extension system currently being introduced under the IDA-assisted Extension
and Research Project become more widespread and as complementary inputs (irri-
gation, pesticides, and improved seeds) become more available, inadequate
data for on-farm fertilizer use and for farm response functions remain a
constraint to planning and policy formulation. As a first step in improving
data, the International Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC) has recently
begun a detailed fertilizer adoption-demand study in four districts.
52.       Since 1966, fertilizer sales have increased at an annual average
rate of about 16 to 17% (Annex IV, Chart 1). Domestic production has been
unable to keep pace with this increase and imports increased from about
350,000 tons in FY76 to about 615,000 tons in FY79 and an estimated 570,000
tons in FY80 (Annex IV, Table 1). The growth in sales has been steady except
for FY72, when the country was disrupted by the War of Independence, and
FY75, when domestic supply was reduced by an explosion at the Ghorasal urea
factory. Between FY77 and FY78, there was a 39% increase in sales, to 715,000
tons, due to improved paddy support pricing and the Government's promotional
efforts. Although sales during the first seven months of FY79 were 20% higher
than in FY78 and would have been still higher if not for the recurrence of
1/   Land Occupancy Survey of Rural Bangladesh, Bangladesh Bureau of Statis-
tics (December 1978).  Cost of Production Survey, 1978.



- 15 -
supply shortages, sales dropped sharply for the remaining 5 months due to
severe drought. FY79 consumption for the full year was only about 740,000
tons, an increase of 3.5% over FY78 and 18% below the earlier projected figure
of 900,000 tons.
53.       Fertilizer consumption continued to be depressed by drought condi-
tions during early FY80, but sales have risen sharply in recent months and the
total consumption for the year is expected to be about 850,000 tons, compared
with the original BADC target of 1,000,000 tons.
54.       Fertilizer consumption should continue to increase rapidly.  Present
average application rates--about 24 lbs of nutrient per gross cropped acre--are
among the lowest in the world, and the incremental output response to fertilizer
use will remain high. It has been estimated that--based on current cropping
patterns, and with adequate flood control and irrigation--the application of
the agronomically recommended optimal quantities of fertilizer in Bangladesh
would require between 4.5 and 5 million tons of fertilizer per year. Although
the incremental productivity of fertilizer rises with the provision of comple-
mentary inputs, the increase use of HYVs, pesticides, irrigation and flood
control facilities--all of which are accorded high priority in the Government's
agricultural development efforts--an increase in fertilizer application alone,
without any additional other inputs or changes in cultivation practices, will
result in substantial initial yield increases for more than half of the present
rice and wheat acreage.
55.       IDA has been assisting GOB in preparing its Medium-Term Foodgrain
Production Plan. The production and input supply targets established in this
context take into account the sectoral potential and constraints as well as the
priority attached by GOB to the rapid acceleration in foodgrain production.
The planning effort includes the disaggregation of national targets to the
district level as a first step toward eventual thana-level plans. Such disag-
gregated estimates of targets and requirements are particularly essential in
planning fertilizer distribution (including transport and storage). Within the
context of projected output targets and likely potential for the expansion of
irrigation and HYV use by district, but also of logistical constraints, aggre-
gate fertilizer requirements for FY85 are estimated to be on the order of 2
million tons--or 170% more than in FY78. Broad agreement has been reached
between IDA and GOB on the targets for foodgrain output and required input
supplies under the proposed Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan which is
expected to be embedded in the Second Five-Year Plan now under preparation.
The target for foodgrain output in FY85 in this scenario is 20 million tons;
the fertilizer requirement for FY81 within this five-year program is 1.12
million tons.
56.       To sustain annual increases in fertilizer sales at projected levels
requires that sufficient supplies be available both nationally and at the local
level in time for each cropping season. Such increases in sales also depend
on orderly and timely distribution of supplies. Given the irregularity in
imports and present inadequacies in the distribution system, the total avail-
able supply in the country should include adequate stocks to meet fertilizer
requirements for about five months. Half of this stock is needed for operat-
ing inventory to ensure availability at the local level, while the other half



- 16 -
would serve as a buffer against fluctuations in local production and import
arrivals and bottlenecks in internal transport. As expected improvements are
made in coordinating imports, domestic production, distribution and warehous-
ing, the ratio of stock levels to future offtake can be reduced gradually.
57.       While the target for FY81 of 1.12 million tons, which has been
agreed between the Government and IDA, represents an increase of 32% over the
estimated actual offtake in FY80, it is on the long-term fertilizer growth
trend line (averaging out year-to-year fluctuations due to weather or supply
disruptions) and it is in line with projected increases in irrigated acreage.
This target level is considered achievable assuming good weather and adequate
and timely supplies. IDA supports the Government policy which aims to obtain
commitments sufficient to support a high level of sales, rather than risk fore-
going foodgrain production at a time of continuing shortages due to insuffi-
cient fertilizer supplies. If demand were to fall below projected levels,
e.g., due to flooding or drought, import arrivals could be rephased to assist
in meeting FY82 requirements.
Domestic Fertilizer Production
Existing Plants
58.       Fertilizer production started in Bangladesh with the Fenchuganj
plant in 1961 to produce urea and ammonium sulfate. A second urea plant,
at Ghorasal, commenced production in 1970. Two triple superphosphate (TSP)
units at Chittagong were completed in 1968 and 1970. These plants have a
combined installed capacity of 489,500 tons per year (tpy) of urea, 13,200
tpy of ammonium sulfate and 152,000 tpy of TSP. The nitrogen production is
based on domestic natural gas and the sulfate and phosphate production on
imported sulfur, currently from Iraq, and rock phosphate, currently from Jordan
and Morocco.
59.       The Fenchuganj plant achieved close to 90% capacity during its first
nine years of operation but declined after 1971. Following a rehabilitation
program completed in 1978, production improved substantially. It is currently
producing at over 80% of its original rated capacity. The Ghorasal plant faced
difficulties from the beginning and a serious explosion put it out of commis-
sion for most of 1975. After a complete overhaul in 1978, the plant is cur-
rently operating at over 70% of rated capacity. The Chittagong plant began
trial runs only in 1974 and 1975 and has experienced serious technical problems
and raw material shortages. Despite recent improvements, its annual production
is unlikely to exceed 60% of rated capacity until the improvements financed
under the Fertilizer Rehabilitation Project (paragraph 62) are made. All of
these plants are operated by Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC),
a semi-autonomous corporation responsible for management of major chemical
industries in the public sector. Three successor companies are in the process
of being established to operate the Fenchuganj, Ghorasal, and TSP factories.
This decentralization and delegation of responsibility is expected to improve
their management efficiency and to permit more rapid decisions to be taken
on the day-to-day requirements of individual units.



- 17 -
Additional Capacity
60.       Ashuganj Fertilizer Factory.  A fifth plant is under construction
at Ashuganj, to be operated by the Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
(AFCC). This plant, designed to produce 528,000 tpy of urea, is being
financed by iDA (Credit 527-BD), ADB, USAID, ODA, Iran, KfW, Switzerland (the
original lenders) and EEC, IFAD, and OPEC Special Fund (the new lenders).
The Ashuganj project encountered substantial delays and cost overruns and
is currently expected to be completed in March 1981. The initially esti-
mated foreign exchange cost was US$142.0 million which was financed with a
US$33 million credit from IDA and US$109 equivalent from the six other original
lenders. The local currency cost of US$46.5 million (net of taxes and duties)
and interest during construction of US$27.2 million was to be borne by the
Government. Due to unforeseen construction requirements, additional equipment
needs and delays (including in particular extra cost and delays resulting from
the need to overcome the earthquake risk at the plant site), the foreign
exchange cost has increased to about US$260 million equivalent and the local
cost to about US$116 million (net of taxes and duties) plus about US$55 million
of interest during construction. In May 1979 IDA increased the amount of its
credit to US$62 million and all the original lenders other than the United
Kingdom and Iran increased their lending proportionately. Additional finance
was obtained from IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund and the EEC to complete the
foreign exchange financing package. (For more details on the Ashuganj project,
see Report P-2568-BD of May 18, 1979). Construction is now progressing satis-
factorily and is expected to be completed within the revised time schedule
(March 1981) and at a cost only slightly over the revised estimates presented
to the Executive Directors in May 1979.
61.       Agreement has been reached with the People's Republic of China under
which additional BCIC facilities would be set up at Ghorasal for the produc-
tion of 110,000 tpy of urea, with Chinese technical and financing assistance.
The plant is expected to come on stream by early 1984. The Government is also
considering construction of another large fertilizer plant at Chittagong which
is to have an installed capacity of 561,000 tpy of urea. This project is
expected to be implemented by a new company with possible private equity, both
local and foreign. Donor assistance for the Chittagong project is being
coordinated by ADB. IDA has indicated willingness, in principle, to consider
cofinancing the project if additional funds are required. IFC has also been
approached by the Government to assist in identifying possible private equity
participation. Engineering arrangements for the Chittagong urea project are
expected to be finalized by mid-1981 and the plant is scheduled to be in
operation by late 1985.
62.       At the time of the Ashuganj appraisal, the need to identify and take
measures to improve production from the existing plants was recognized and IDA
financed studies for this purpose under the First and Second Technical Assist-
ance Credits (409-BD dated June 29, 1973, and 622-BD dated April 8, 1976).
The final recommendations, formulated by the consultants in August 1979,
formed the basis for the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project approved
on May 20, 1980 (Report P-2781-BD of April 24, 1980). This credit of $29
million will finance (i) rehabilitation of the plants at Ghorasal, Chittagong
and Fenchuganj, (ii) the setting up of training facilities at Ghorasal, and



- 18 -
(iii) essential spare parts, catalysts and chemicals for the fertilizer indus-
try for a period of about two years. The project includes additions to, and
replacements of, equipment and plant modifications as well as the provision
of maintenance and other imported materials at the three fertilizer plants to
enable them to operate at close to their rated capacities and to minimize
losses in production due to interruptions in plant operation.
63.       With expected implementation of the above projects, Bangladesh could
have an installed capacity of 1.1 million tons of urea in 1984 and 1.63 million
tons by the end of calendar 1985. Since the Chinese financed plant at Ghorasal
and the Chittagong plant are expected to be ready only by 1984/85, they are not
expected to operate close to their capabilities in FY85 when domestic urea pro-
duction may only be 0.93 million tons against projected demand of 1.13 million
tons and some urea import will be required. By FY87, when production from the
two plants should reach full potential, marginal amounts of urea imports could
still be required and it is unlikely that Bangladesh will have any exportable
surplus. Even assuming that urea consumption growth rates would slow down to
10% per year after 1985, Bangladesh would need to have a further increase in
urea capacity by about 1988. No increase is expected in Bangladesh's current
TSP capacity of 152,000 tons per year. Bangladesh would expect to continue
to have to import substantial quantities of TSP/DAP. Since domestic TSP pro-
duction would have to be based upon imported raw materials, no new TSP capacity
is recommended beyond improving productivity of existing TSP facilities.
Production
64.       Production in recent years has been erratic and below expectations,
but should improve with the rehabilitation measures outlined above. Produc-
tion and capacity utilization at the existing plants since FY77 and projected
for FY80 are summarized in Annex IV, Table 2. Production has increased from
265,000 tons (40% of capacity) in FY78 to 360,000 tons (55% of capacity) in
FY79, and is expected to reach about 425,000 tons (65% of capacity) for FY80.
For FY81, production is expected to reach over 500,000 tons (about 70% of rated
capacity for urea and 60% of capacity for TSP). The significant factors tllat
will affect the performance of all the fertilizer plants in achieving higher
capacity utilization rates are: (i) the removal of current bottlenecks to
efficient production; (ii) the adequacy of the factory-gate fertilizer prices
to ensure reasonable cash flow; (iii) the availability of adequate foreign
exchange to procure the required raw materials--rock phosphate and sulfur--
and the spares and components needed to maintain the plants in good condition;
and (iv) the availability of a well-trained and competent work force. These
factors are being addressed by the IDA Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation
Project, by the IDA import program credits and by this proposed credit. In
addition, under a UNDP-financed project, a contract has been signed with IJNICO
International of Japan to provide operations assistance to the Ghorasal and
Chittagong plants. The UNDP-financed project provides technical and manage-
ment assistance to develop management skills and will train managerial, super-
visory, skilled technical and operating staff. The project includes advisers
to assist BCIC in developing proposals for a training center, to be financed
under the IDA Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project.



- 19 -
Marketing and Distribution
65.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an auto-
nomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, is responsible
for the procurement, distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs,
including fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, irrigation equipment and diesel
fuel, and various types of agricultural machinery. Recently, measures have
been taken to increase the role of the private sector in the distribution and
marketing of fertilizer (see paragraph 67), pesticides and irrigation pumps.
66.       While the major constraint to increased fertilizer consumption has
been inadequate supply, the fertilizer distribution system has also been handi-
capped by inadequate planning and coordination and the lack of transport and
storage facilities. An IDA-financed fertilizer marketing study, completed in
1977, provided the basis for BADC to formulate a comprehensive and improved
marketing and storage program. This program includes a USAID-financed project
for construction of additional storage capacity and a phased program to develop
greater private sector involvement in fertilizer distribution.
67.       Until recently, BADC's marketing system limited private participa-
tion to the retail level. In 1978, backed by the USAID Fertilizer Distri-
bution Improvement Grant, BADC introduced wholesale and retail competition
among fertilizer dealers--private and cooperative--in a pilot project in the
five districts of Chittagong Division which account for about a third of total
fertilizer consumption. The new system has since been extended to Dacca and
Khulna Divisions and will be introduced in the remaining part of the country
(i.e., Rajshahi Division) on July 1, 1980. Under the new system, BADC sells
primarily to wholesalers at primary distribution points (PDPs), while retain-
ing responsibility for sales to retailers in remote and inaccessible thanas.
BADC sells at reduced wholesale rates for large quantity fertilizer purchases
at the PDPs and at lesser discounts to retailers at the thana warehouses. The
resale price is unrestricted up to the administered price to the farmer. All
private dealers and farmers' cooperatives are permitted to buy from all BADC
warehouses. Private movement of fertilizer is unrestricted except in the five-
mile border area. USAID is financing consultants to assist BADC in setting
up and monitoring the system.
68.       The new marketing system has enjoyed a successful beginning.  Sales
from the primary distribution points account for most of total sales in the
areas where the system is operating. This has reduced BADC's costs of multiple
handling, transport and losses. As private dealers take over the wholesale
distribution and sales are reduced at BADC's thana warehouses, these will be
converted to other uses, leaving in operation mainly those in remote thanas
which have not attracted wholesalers. Retail prices have dropped in areas
around the PDPs and appear to be at or below official prices except at a few
remote locations. The new wholesalers are moving fertilizer cheaply and
effectively from surplus areas to those with unmet demand where they sell to
dealers and farmers, thus improving the distribution of fertilizer.
Fertilizer Pricing
69.       Farmer demand for fertilizer depends largely on the ratio between
the expected output price at harvest time and the cost of fertilizer that will



- 20 -
make fertilizer use sufficiently rewarding financially for the farmer to take
the risk of purchasing and applying it. In Bangladesh, droughts and floods
make fertilizer use a more risky undertaking than in many countries. The
impact of successive increases in fertilizer prices on the trend of farmers
use of fertilizer must be monitored carefully.
70.       Since its introduction in Bangladesh, fertilizer has been subsidized
to promote its use. BADC purchases fertilizer at Government-fixed ex-factory
prices from BCIC and at actual CIF costs in the case of imports. Domestic
and imported fertilizers are pooled and marketed by BADC at a price fixed by
the Government. BADC receives a subsidy from the Government to cover the
difference between its procurement and distribution costs and its sales
revenues. The subsidy thus defined 1/ has risen rapidly in recent years,
as indicated in Table 1:
Table 1: FERTILIZER SUBSIDY
Fertilizer Subsidy          Percentage of Cost
FY                Taka Million   Taka per Ton           Subsidized
1973/74                      28             74                 9.3
1974/75                     150            536                30.5
1975/76                    485           1,060                46.3
1976/77                     644          1,256                46.1
1977/78                  1,200           1,677                50.0
1978/79                  1,301           1,950                50.0
1979/80 (est.)           1,170           1,376                40.0
71.       This rapid rise has occurred despite a tripling of domestic fer-
tilizer sales prices during the period. The weighted average retail price of
fertilizer has risen from Tk 27/maund in 1973/74 to Tk 83/maund in 1979/80.
The burden imposed on the Government by the subsidy is substantial, accounting
in FY79 for about 75% of all development expenditures by the Ministry of
Agriculture and 10% of the Government's entire development budget. Government
policy, agreed with IDA and USAID in the context of fiinancril,  fertilizer and
foodgraLin imports, is to reduce the fertilizer subsidy gradually. As a first
step, average retail fertilizer prices were increased by about 28% in August
1979.
72.       The Government's foodgrain procurement program is also being strength-
ened to ensure attractive foodgrain prices to the farmers so that fertilizer
application continues to be economic despite increases in fertilizer retail
prices. The present paddy/fertilizer price ratio of 1.3 to 1 in Bangladesh
continues to make the use of fertilizer attractive (for comparison, the
present ratio in India is 0.60 to 1, and in the Philippines 0.80 to 1). In
1/   The economic subsidy based on the CIF costs of free market imports would
be somewhat different since the CIF price of tied bilateral ai.d is 15-20%
above the international market price, the average ex-factory price of
domestically produced urea is about half of the CIF free market price and
the ex-factory price of domestically produced TSP is marginally below
the free market price.



- 21 -
periods of scarcity, significant amounts of fertilizer are reported sold at
black market prices substantially higher than the official prices. The fer-
tilizer price has a relatively small impact on foodgrain production costs, and
past increases in fertilizer prices have not had a noticeable effect on fertil-
izer offtake; as noted above (paragraph 69), however, the impact of future
price increa6es must be evaluated on a continuing basis. Past reductions in
the rate of fertilizer consumption growth below the 17% average have been
related almost entirely to weather factors and supply and distribution prob-
lems. There appears to be scope for further reductions in the fertilizer sub-
sidy without adversely affecting the growth rates of fertilizer sales and use.
Transportation and Bulk Handling
73.       The transportation system has been a constraint to fertilizer avail-
ability and use. GOB has been taking various steps to improve transport
operations but the extent of the problem makes it unrealistic to expect more
than gradual improvements, particularly with railways. In order to expedite
fertilizer movement and distribution and to increase the efficiency and capa-
city of the transport sector so that future fertilizer transport demand is
efficiently met, IDA agreed with GOB in connection with the Fertilizer Import
Credit (944-BD) on various measures to improve transport coordination and con-
tracting procedures. Further assistance is under consideration in a proposed
Fertilizer Transport Project which would be expected to include: (i) improve-
ment of ports--landing and storage facilities at Baghabari and Shiromoni,
channel dredging at Chittagong and engineering studies at Chalna; (ii) unit
block trains--rehabilitation of wagons, improvement of rail wagon ferry serv-
ices, improvement of railroad sidings and establishment of an operations
control center; and (iii) further improvement of contracting procedures.
74.       Since nearly all the fertilizer distribution is handled by contract,
the improvement of contracting procedures is essential to the improvement of
the fertilizer distribution system. BADC has already taken several steps to
improve contracting conditions, with technical assistance by USAID-financed
consultants. These steps include: introduction of an estimated rate system;
establishment of a claims cell to process pending claims; elimination of
transit loss allowances to contractors; discontinuation of the practice of
making partial or advance payments; use of several contractors at main dis-
tribution points; and introduction of a new system to make contractors
responsible for rail shipment in exchange for a 20% surcharge on rail rates.
75.       The feasibility of bulk handling and bagging facilities for imported
fertilizer has been under review for some time, since ocean shipping and port
handling in bulk form would give significant savings. An IFAD Fertilizer
Sector Program Loan approved in December 1979 includes financing of a pilot
project at Chittagong which, at low cost, should quickly upgrade existing
jetty facilities to handle small bulk ships, lighters, mini-bulkers and, if
the river were dredged, large bulk ships. Since imports of fertilizer at
Chalna are also expected to increase substantially, the proposed IDA Fertilizer
Transport Project is expected to include funds for a review of past proposals
and final engineering for a bulk handling facility there.



- 22 -
Storage
76.       BADC bases its present and future storage needs on having inven-
tories equivalent to five months of expected offtake. Thus, at the end of
the current fiscal year, it projects closing stocks at nearly 500,000 tons
to support projected overall FY81 offtake of 1.12 million tons. The stock-
holding requirement would rise to 600,000 tons by the end of FY82 and to about
850,000 tons by the end of FY85 if consumption develops as estimated and
required in the context of the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (see
paragraph 55). At present (February 1, 1980), BADC has district storage
(thana, intermediate, and primary distribution point) with an aggregate rated
capacity of 333,360 tons, of which over 200,000 tons is rented, and transit
storage capacity (at Chittagong, Khulna, and Narayanganj) of 68,615 tons,
giving a total storage capacity of 401,975 tons. In addition to BADC-controlled
storage, the fertilizer factories have total storage capacity of 85,000 tons.
BADC's physical storage capability is supplemented also by products in transit
(on trucks, barges, coasters, railwagons and on vessels discharging at ports).
During FY80, an estimated average of 50,000 tons has been in transit in the
country at any given time. Thus, BADC and the factories should be able to hold
stocks of up to about 535,000 tons, an amount theoretically sufficient overall
to meet this year's estimated requirements.
77.       BADC has under construction 31 godowns with a total capacity of
49,500 tons, about half financed with its own funds and half under the USAID
Phase I Program. Much of this construction is virtually completed and should
help to meet requirements during FY80 and FY81. A USAID-financed Phase II
Program may add 173,000 tons by the end of FY82 and would give BADC total owned
warehouse capacity of about 425,000 tons. In addition, the recently approved
IFAD Fertilizer Sector Loan will finance some 25,000 tons of low-cost storage
in the three districts of its program area. Total storage capacity available
(including rented and factory capacity, but excluding supplies in transit)
would be about 735,000 tons.
78.       The above figures of rated capacity give a somewhat misleading
impression of the adequacy of storage facilities to meet the national market-
ing system's demand. About half of the existing total storage capacity is at
thana level. It is almost impossible and very expensive to move stocks from
one thana to another. In addition, the implementation of the new marketing
system is placing a greater burden on intermediate and primary distribution
points to service the private fertilizer wholesalers and retailers, so that
substantial additions are needed at this level. (The Phase I and Phase II
USAID Programs are directed to helping to meet this need).
79.       As transportation capacity improves and as more of the total urea
requirement is met from domestic production rather than from imports, it should
be possible to reduce the amount of buffer stocks that need to be kept within
BADC warehouses. To continue to provide storage equivalent to five months of
the rising levels of offtake which are being projected would place a costly
burden on the distribution system. Furthermore, additional private storage
should become available with greater reliance on private wholesalers under the
new marketing system. Therefore, BADC is reevaluating its storage needs as
the distribution system develops and in light of the sort of system it wishes



- 23 -
to develop in the longer run. Already the decision has been made to reduce
the urea storage requirement to three months offtake once Ashuganj has reached
full production. The need for additional storage capacity will also be kept
under review by IDA and USAID.
Credit
80.       Generally, availability of institutional credit does not appear to
be a major constraint to increased fertilizer use. The Bangladesh Bank fol-
lows a liberal credit policy for the agricultural sector. Institutional credit
for fertilizer is provided primarily by six commercial banks and one agricul-
tural bank under a liberalized short-term credit program introduced in FY78
and designed to increase the use of agricultural inputs. It is based on crop-
hypothecation rather than collateral. Short-term farmer credit is provided
at 11% per annum.  Onlending to participating institutions is at 2% below the
Bank Rate subject to a minimum of 6%. Loans in the program amounted to Taka
608 million in CY1977, Taka 535 million in CY1978, and Taka 237 million up to
June of CY1979. About 80% of the 1977 loans have been recovered, but recovery
of the 1978 and 1979 loans has been much lower, roughly 45% in each year, due
to the effects of the drought. The share of the program going to small farmers
has proved less than originally intended. To increase access to credit by small
farmers, the banks have opened more rural branch offices and have improved
staff training. The Government has also employed consultants, financed under
the First and Second IDA Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD), to
recommend measures for longer-term improvements in the agricultural credit
system. Several experimental projects to provide credit to small farmers and
sharecroppers are in progress, but their results are not yet available. An
agricultural credit project is currently being prepared for IDA consideration.
PART V - THE CREDIT
81.       The proposed Credit was appraised by a mission which visited
Bangladesh from February 19 to March 4, 1980. Negotiations were held in
Washington in May 1980. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a
team led by Mr. A. Samad, Chairman of BADC.
82.       As noted in Part IV of this report, IDA is currently assisting
Bangladesh in reducing its fertilizer import requirements through financing
the 520,000 tpy Ashuganj Fertilizer Project, which is expected to begin pro-
duction on or before March 1981, and by the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation
Project. Until the Ashuganj factory completes its breaking-in period and is
operating near capacity, Bangladesh will need to import a major share of its
total fertilizer requirements in order to maintain the momentum of its agri-
cultural development efforts. The proposed $25 million credit is the second
for financing such imports. The first credit (944-BD, dated June 29, 1979)
provided $25 million for fertilizer imports in FY80. It was fully committed by
February 1980 and has financed imports of about 70,000 tons of urea and 34,000
tons of TSP. In addition, during FY80, IDA financed 20,000 tons of TSP imports
under the Seventh Import Program Credit.



- 24 -
83.       The proposed credit will help to finance imports of finished fer-
tilizer and fertilizer raw materials (rock phosphate and sulfur) required for
the agreed offtake program for FY81. Measures to be undertaken under the new
credit will reinforce the policy measures taken under the first fertilizer
imports credit, which are aimed at laying a sound basis for a sustained increase
in fertilizer use. Together, these credits support a program of action which
includes:
(a) reducing the fertilizer subsidy;
(b) maintaining incentive procurement prices for foodgrains;
(c) separating the fertilizer subsidy from the agricultural
development budget;
(d) establishing a high-level fertilizer coordination committee;
(e) taking measures to encourage the private distribution of
fertilizers;
(f) taking action to improve the performance of the domestic
fertilizer industry;
(g) reviewing contracting procedures for private fertilizer
transport carriers and taking additional actions based
upon the results of ongoing consultants' studies to increase
the efficiency of Bangladesh's fertilizer transport and
distribution systems; and
(h) taking all necessary action--including the use of the
Government's own foreign exchange, if necessary --to ensure
availability of sufficient fertilizer to meet an agreed
fertilizer consumption target.
The actions taken in conjunction with the first credit and those which are
proposed under the second fertilizer imports credit to carry out this program
are reviewed below.
84.       Reduction in the Fertilizer Unit Subsidy.  In connection with the
first fertilizer imports credit, the Government indicated its intention to
decrease the fertilizer subsidy progressively over time and to eliminate it
before the end of the Second Five-Year Plan period (June 30, 1985). As a first
step, and in conformity with Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
for Credit 944-BD, the Government increased its fertilizer sales prices in
August 1979 by an average of about 28%. As a result, the subsidy during FY80
is expected to be held to about Taka 1.2 billion, compared with Taka 1.4 bil-
lion the previous year, despite the increase in total sales and substantial
increases in the price of imported fertilizers. As a percentage of the cost,
the subsidy was reduced from 50% to about 40%. In view of possible further
increases in the price of imported fertilizer or in shipping costs and possi-
ble increases in the cost of domestically-produced fertilizer, the Government
and IDA will at the request of either party, but at least once a year, review



- 25 -
the effect of fertilizer price movements on the level of the subsidy so as to
ensure continued progress in reducing the total cost of the subsidy (Section
3.07(a) of DCA 944-BD and Section 3.06(a) of the proposed DCA). As a result
of an initial review carried out in connection with the appraisal of the pro-
posed credit, the Government will implement further sales price increases of
about 24% prior to credit effectiveness (Section 4.01 of DCA). These increases
are expected to reduce the percentage of the cost covered by the subsidy from
a projected FY81 level of about 48% to 36%. (Assuming three months of sales
prior to effectiveness the average subsidy level for FY81 would be maintained
at about 40%.) Without the increase, because of the 32% increase expected in
volume of sales and the substantial increases which have been taking place in
the prices of imports, the subsidy in FY81 would reach about Taka 2.4 billion.
With the increase in fertilizer sales prices, the subsidy will amount to about
Taka 2.0 billion.
85.       Maintenance of Incentive Foodgrain Procurement Prices.  In the
future, the Government will set foodgrain procurement prices at levels judged
to provide adequate production incentives to farmers and to review whether
or not such prices might require adjustment at the time of each increase in
fertilizer prices (Section 3.07(b) of DCA 944-BD and Section 3.06(b) of the
proposed DCA). In June 1979, the ratio of the paddy and wheat procurement
prices to the fertilizer sales price was about 1.4 to 1. With the increase
in procurement prices in November and the increase in fertilizer prices in
August 1979, the ratio became 1.3 to 1. With the proposed increase in the
fertilizer price, and no change in foodgrain procurement prices, the ratio
would be reduced to 1.1 to 1. This is considered adequate to maintain farmer
incentives.
86.       Removal of the Financial Provision for Fertilizer Subsidies from the
Development Budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. The fertilizer subsidy is
paid out of the agricultural allocation in the development budget. All fertil-
izer imports, including those under foreign grants which are cost-free to the
Government, are counted at full cost in the subsidy calculation and are for
this purpose treated the same as commercial imports. As was done in connection
with the first fertilizer imports credit, the Government will continue to
maintain a separate account for the fertilizer subsidy, so that any increases
in the actual amount of the subsidy over that budgeted for this purpose would
not reduce funds available for other agricultural development projects. The
Government also undertook to examine the advantages and disadvantages of alter-
native methods for budgeting of, and accounting for, any fertilizer subsidy
and to inform the Association of the results (Section 3.08 of DCA 944-BD).
The Planning Commission has completed the study and has indicated that for
the Second Five-Year Plan, it would treat the fertilizer subsidy as a non-
investment expenditure in the total development outlay for the agricultural
sector.
87.       Establishment of a High-Level Fertilizer Coordination Committee.  In
connection with the first fertilizer imports credit, the Government expanded
the terms of reference of the Council Committee on Food (consisting of the
President as Chairman, the Prime Minister, and the Ministers for Food, Irriga-
tion, Foreign Affairs, Planning, Finance, Agriculture, Commerce, Industry, and



- 26 -
Ports and Shipping) so as to cover fertilizer as well as food. The Committee
is charged with coordinating policies relating to fertilizer, including:
(i) production, availability and import requirements; (ii) pricing policy;
(iii) marketing and distribution policy; (iv) requirements for transportation,
storage and related facilities; and (v) financing policies, including prepara-
tion of the fertilizer budget. The Council Committee is assisted by a Food
Planning and Monitoring Unit, which includes a technical secretariat to
service the Committee on matters relating to fertilizer. Provision of a
staffing plan and administrative authorizations for the required staff posi-
tions were conditions of effectiveness of the first credit. This unit has
recently been provided with an initial staffing for fertilizer work, con-
sisting of two professionals, one research officer and support staff. A
second research officer is expected to join shortly. This unit will prin-
cipally review, analyze and reconcile the inputs of various other agencies
concerned with the fertilizer sector, including BADC, BCIC and the Transport
Coordinating Committee. One of its most important functions will be to assess
on a continuing basis the effects of subsidy reduction and fertilizer price
adjustments on fertilizer use and productivity, farm income, farmer incentives
and crop production. It would also be an appropriate agency for carrying out
the review of stock requirement policy (paragraph 92).
88.       Measures for the Encouragement of Private Fertilizer Distribution.
In the policy statement given at the time of the first credit, the Government
indicated its intention to expand the private sector marketing system which
it had begun in the Chittagong Division to cover the entire country during
FY80. As indicated in paragraph 67, the system was extended to two additional
Divisions at the end of 1979 and will be extended to cover the rest of the
country at the end of the present fiscal year.
89.       Measures for Improvement in Domestic Fertilizer Production.  As
described in Part IV, various measures are being taken with IDA, UNDP, USAID
and IFAD assistance to increase the production of Bangladesh's domestic ferti-
lizer industry. Under the first fertilizer imports credit, the Government
prepared a plan for such improvements for discussion with IDA. This plan
served as the basis for appraisal of the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation
Project (see paragraph 62). With these various measures, the industry is
expected to be able to operate at over 80% of design capacity upon completion
of the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project. Financing under this pro-
posed credit of raw materials for the TSP plant would help to ensure timely
supplies and, thus, to avoid curtailing or stopping production as has fre-
quently occurred in the past. FY79 production was equivalent to only 41%
of rated capacity, although during days when the plant was operating, produc-
tion averaged 75%-80% of the daily rated capacity. Equipment failures and
maintenance problems accounted for most of the total lost days. Shortages
of raw materials were responsible for 37% of downtime in FY79 and 27% of
downtime during FY74-78. Power supply interruptions and difficulties in
moving fertilizer were also factors. Production during the first six months
of FY80 was only about 23,000 tons, mainly due to shortages of raw materials.
The plant requires about $20 million per year of imported rock phosphate and
sulfur to achieve production at 80% of capacity. In addition, about US$4
million of imported spare parts, catalysts and chemicals are now required
annually by the existing fertilizer plants. IDA has, in a series of import



- 27 -
program credits, provided foreign currency to finance the import of fertilizer
raw materials, spares and components. As part of the Eighth Program Credit,
approved in February 1980, the Association will provide up to US$10 million
for this purpose (to meet a portion of the estimated US$24 million annual
requirements for FY81). 1/ The US$10 million available for TSP raw materials
under the currently proposed credit would assist in meeting a portion of the
remaining foreign exchange requirements for this purpose. The Government
would have the option to use these funds for importing either raw materials
or finished fertilizer, depending upon the financing available from other
sources. The allocation would be made by the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance.
90.       Measures for Improving the Fertilizer Transportation System.  USAID
is financing consultants to assist BADC in improving fertilizer transport and
distribution. IDA is also financing consultants to review general require-
ments for improving inland water transportation. Under the first fertilizer
imports credit, the Government reviewed its procedures for contracting with
road and inland water transport fertilizer carriers, including the adequacy
of penalties for poor performance, and of carrier prequalification standards
and the possibilities of incentives for better than expected performance.
This review was discussed with BADC during appraisals of the proposed credit
and of the proposed Fertilizer Transport Project (paragraph 73), and a plan
of action on contracting procedures was developed. Action already taken is
noted in paragraph 74. Further improvements are under consideration in
connection with the proposed Fertilizer Transport Project, which would also
finance investments to improve the system. The new marketing system, by
giving greater responsibilities in fertilizer transport to private whole-
salers, is adding greater flexibility in distribution. The Government
continues to give fertilizer priority second only to food in the allocation
of Government transport resources. In addition, the IFAD project (paragraph
75) is financing bulk handling and bagging facilities to be constructed at
Chittagong. BADC is already experimenting with bulk shipment, with bagging on
board as a first step toward purchasing and shipping its import requirements
in bulk.
91.       Assurance of Adequate Fertilizer Supply.  The Government annually
provides the Association with a draft of its program for fertilizer supply
and distribution in time for the Association to comment on it (Section 3.09
of the DCA for Credit 944-BD). The program for FY81 calls for distribution of
1.12 million tons and, as noted above, is in line with the Medium-Term Food
Production Plan input requirements. To meet this demand and provide closing
stocks sufficient to support the projected FY82 distribution of 1.250 million
tons, FY81 supplies will need to total 1.66 million tons. Opening stocks are
estimated at 500,000 tons and domestically produced fertilizer is expected to
amount to 505,000 tons as a result of improvements in production at the exist-
ing plants and initial production at the Ashuganj plant. Thus, during FY81,
imports of some 650,000 tons will be required (Annex IV, Table 3). As of
1/   In addition, the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Credit includes
$8.3 million equivalent to finance estimated spare parts requirements
(but not raw materials) for FY82 and FY83.



- 28 -
April 1980, firm or reasonably firm aid financing appears to be available to
cover about 512,000 tons of this requirement, including that to be financed
by the proposed credit, leaving a balance of 138,000 tons to be financed.
Some part of this should be covered by assistance from other past donors from
whom no FY81 commitment has yet been obtained. The balance requiring finance
is entirely for urea, since all MP and TSP/DAP requirements are covered. At
expected prices, this would represent additional assistance amounting to about
US$35 million. The Government will take all necessary action, including the
use of its own foreign exchange to the extent that sufficient external financ-
ing is not available, to ensure availability of sufficient fertilizer in
Bangladesh at the appropriate seasons to support a fertilizer consumption
target for FY81 of 1.12 million tons (or such alternative target as may be
agreed with the Association during FY81 in light of weather or other extraneous
events) and to end the fiscal year with adequate stocks to support the pro-
jected offtake during the initial months of FY82 (Section 3.07 of the DCA).
IDA will assist Bangladesh in its efforts to mobilize additional fertilizer
assistance at the Bangladesh Aid Group meetings. In addition, donor meetings
in Dacca are to be scheduled regularly to review the fertilizer supply situa-
tion, the adequacy of the Government's fertilizer policies and programs, and
the possible need for additional imports. These meetings will also continue
efforts to coordinate the assistance being provided by various agencies to
the fertilizer sector.
92.       Future Stock Requirements.  The Government is reviewing its policy
of requiring stocks equivalent to five months of projected offtake--in light
of increased domestic production, improved transportation and proposed
changes in the distribution system--and has undertaken to review with IDA by
December 31, 1980 its proposed policy for requirements for stocks of each
product during the Second Five-Year Plan period (Section 3.08 of the DCA).
Any technical assistance required for this review could be considered for
financing under the IDA Technical Assistance Credits.
Administration of the Credit
93.       BADC would be the principal agency responsible for project imple-
mentation except for import of raw materials for the TSP plant which would
be the responsibility of BCIC and the successor company established to oper-
ate the TSP factory (see paragraph 59). BADC has proved capable of procuring
and distributing increasingly large volumes of fertilizers, despite constraints
in transportation (including the priority which has had to be given to moving
substantial grain imports in recent years). Improvements in its distribution
system are being undertaken and technical assistance has been arranged in a
number of areas related to organization, planning, accounting and management
in order to assist BADC in reducing distribution costs and further improving
efficiency.
94.       Under the ongoing USAID Fertilizer Distribution Improvement Project,
BADC has retained the International Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC) as
consultants to assist in the introduction of the New Marketing System. Under
the Third Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 872-BD), IDA is financing con-
sultants to assist BADC in improving its financial management and accounting.
Since 1977, the Ford Foundation has been financing an expert to advise BADC on



- 29 -
management information systems. ODA (UK) is providing assistance for the BADC
Staff Training Institute. IFAD is financing technical assistance to BADC in
warehouse and inventory management, marketing, and for mid- and senior-level
management training. These programs should help to improve BADC's capability
to manage the proposed project.
95.       As noted earlier, UNDP is financing a program of management
assistance and training for the fertilizer industry (see paragraph 64) and
arrangements are underway to restructure BCIC fertilizer operations through
the establishment of three independent entities with adequate powers to facili-
tate more rapid decisions on day-to-day operations and improved entrepreneurial
initiative (see paragraph 59). With these arrangements the company operating
the TSP factory should be capable of making satisfactory use of the raw
material imports financed under the proposed credit.
Procurement and Disbursement
96.       Procurement of fertilizer by BADC would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Because of the
limited number of suppliers, rock phosphate and sulphur for the TSP plant may
be procured by international shopping in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association. The proposed credit would finance the foreign
exchange cost of fertilizer and fertilizer raw material imports. The Govern-
ment will deposit Taka funds equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Asso-
ciation for the materials financed from the proceeds of the proposed Credit
into an account currently maintained with the Bangladesh Bank and will use
these funds entirely to finance its development programs (Sections 3.04(a)
and (b) of the DCA). The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1981.
Economic Benefits and Costs
97.       The project will help to meet the demand for fertilizer by increas-
ing the national supply and thereby help to increase food and other agricul-
tural production. It would thus contribute towards meeting the national
objectives of achieving food self-sufficiency and creating employment in rural
areas. The project has a high benefit/cost ratio, is quick-yielding, simple,
and relatively risk-free.
98.       Various studies in Bangladesh have indicated that one unit of ferti-
lizer increases foodgrain production by at least three units. Valuing ferti-
lizer and rice at international market prices, the benefit/cost ratio would
be about 4.8 (i.e., fertilizer imports of c.i.f. value of US$100 would reduce
rice imports by the equivalent of US$480). Even allowing for the costs of
other inputs which complement fertilizer use, and for the possible inefficien-
cies of fertilizer use in Bangladesh, this ratio indicates a high return to
the economy from increased fertilizer use. Alternatively, if the additional
paddy is valued at the price received by Bangladesh farmers, the benefit/
cost ratio is 3.66. The fertilizer imports to be financed under the proposed
credit would be expected to permit a reduction of between about US$50 million
and US$120 million in foodgrain imports, depending upon whether imports of



- 30 -
wheat or rice (or a mixture) are reduced. In any case, it is clear that the
short-term benefits of increased fertilizer availability are substantially in
excess of the cost.
99.       While construction of new TSP manufacturing facilities in Bangladesh
based on imported rock phosphate and sulfur probably would not be an economic
investment, maintenance of existing facilities in production is economically
justified. At currently feasible levels of production, the annual economic
costs of TSP production in Bangladesh are lower than the import costs by
US$4.5 million (in 1979 prices). After the improvements being financed under
the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Credit (see paragraph 62), the savings
would increase to about US$6.7 million per year (in 1979 prices).
100.      The proposed credit would provide significant benefits to smaller
farmers, tenant farmers, and to landless laborers. A 1978 survey showed that
the proportion of sharecroppers using fertilizer is virtually the same as that
of owner-cultivators. Various pilot agricultural censuses have indicated that
more fertilizer per acre tends to be used by small than by large farmers.
Finally, in times of scarcity, a frequent situation in recent years, the
smaller farmers and sharecroppers are most sensitive to high fertilizer prices
and are least able to pay the artificially high price for fertilizer that
develops. Thus, in times of scarcity, available fertilizer is likely to reach
the larger farmers in disproportionally large amounts. Accordingly, the smaller
farmers are expected to be major beneficiaries of the increased fertilizer
availability made possible by the proposed credit. In addition, labor require-
ments per acre will rise as more fertilizer is applied since more weeding is
needed and increased grain production requires more work in harvesting and
threshing. The USAID cost of production surveys have found that high level
fertilizer users have a labor requirement 60% higher than farmers who use no
fertilizer. While some of this additional labor will be provided by the
farmers' own families, additional employment will also be created for the
landless. Multiplier effects may also act at a local level as greater farmer
incomes generate demand for other goods and services and generally boost the
local economy, providing employment and income for those for whom farm produc-
tion alone cannot provide an adequate livelihood.
Risks
101.      There is a risk that fertilizer consumption could be reduced below
expected levels due to flooding or drought. In such circumstances, import
arrivals would be rephased to assist in meeting requirements after FY81.
There is also a risk that plant response to the fertilizer could be reduced
below the expected levels due to incorrect application. Even so, the response
levels would be sufficient to more than justify the use of the fertilizer.



- 31 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
102.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. An additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement would be
enactment of an increase in the domestic fertilizer price (paragraph 84).
103.      1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
104.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 21, 1980



-32 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
SAV0L6ES - S0C7 L LiDICAYOEU DASA SURl
LA   AIW0 )u.cx   SmoPS (AJUT1)D AV u
umu UZ&  (TUOCIJ  80. m.                                                   - lIDS! ICDS! ESYmAU
TOTAL            144.0                                                MU12          S             Ka
AORCULTOUAL      99.9                       *         DSS RCUT       GOIIAPRIUC    DCO11       DC
1940  tb    1970 /EIbAY  A          UGiO  LL  GROUP         M 0ro0 co
OR  rn CAPPITA (8                    40.0        60.0      90.0           191.1      209.6      467.5
NCI COQSUWTION M  CAPITA
(E GIAMS Of COAL *IYITALUT)          ..         ..       33.0           69.1       83.9       262.1
POPlLATION AND VITAL SUTISTICS
PPOMATIOD. KID-TM  (MILL1OUS)      51.4        68.3      81.2
0U26  POPMATIDN (PUCUI O TOSL) 5.2             7.6       9.3            13.2       16.2       24.6
POPULAION PKOJUCTIOUS
POPMLAZTO  II Y*A  2000 OJL.LIOUSl                    145.0
SrATYOnAY POPULATION 010.U8)                          334.0
YR STTIOARY POPMATION IS UCUD                        2165.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PU SQ. E.                       357.0       474.0    564.0            ".6        49.4        45.3
PU SQ. EK. AGRICUCTULL LAND    540.0        683.0    813.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULaTION AG SSRuCCuSz (PUCUT)
0-14 YnS.                        44.3        46.4      46.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YnS.                        52.5        51.0     51.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATIOU GCOWSd RDAT (PUUT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.9       2.5             2.4       2.4         2.7
UN                                 . .        6.7       6.3            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRDZ 3AWNI RAT! (PL TUOUSAD)       49.0        48.0      46.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CLUDE DEATh RATZ (PZU ThOUSAND)    23.0        20.0      18.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RAUT             3.5         3.1       3.2            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPOS. ANNRUAL (TWOUSUDS)        *-       345.6   1103.1
usEss (PzScIaT OF 9AnIZ  waN)    ..           ..        8.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
lIDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PM CAPITA (1969-71-100)         107.3       101.0      98.0           99.4       9S.2        99.6
PZR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAL0RIS (PRCENT OF
REQUIRDMATS)                   e9q.OL      89.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         42.6/f        *       58.5           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSZ       9.2L         ..       8.0            10.4      13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0        25.0      23.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EVDCTANCY AT BIRTH (TERS)    42.0         45.0      47.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT WORTALITT RATE (PR
ThOUSAND)                            ..       153.0    140.0               .      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        45.0      53.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                              *-        13.0      15.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..        47.0      55.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO ESCRZTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-         6.0       5.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..          ..      40.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PEYSICIAN             ..      7600-.OL  11350.0        7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..    72030.OL& 53700.0         12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ZD
TOTAL                         11000.O/h    8120.Lh  4430.0           2738.4    1417.1       726.5
'RBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..             ..       24.8        27.5
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEROLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                      5.3         5.4
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
30TAL                              ..          ..       ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..
ACCESS -O ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF 3WELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..        .          28.1
URBAN                               *          *     3.0/r              *.        7-.8       45.1
RURAL                              ..           .        ..             ..         ..         9.9



- 33-                                              ANNEX I
Paae 2
TABLE 3A
3ANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyEACES
- tiOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HICHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPRIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENRC -'ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        61.0       83.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
MAUE                 66.0         80.0     106.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
FEMALE               26.0         42.0      60.0             43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0        19.0       i3.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                  14.0        30.0      34.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMLE                  1.0         8.0      11.0             10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (C OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.0       1.0              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              *-        49.0       55.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                            ..        26.0       24.0              ..        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6/1         ..      22.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4        0.4/i           2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         6.0         ..            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..               ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18516.0      23402.0  29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5       17.0            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8        85.9       78.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3         3.5        7.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.6       34.4            35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 58.7        55.8       55.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               11.4        11.8       12.1            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.3              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/1       16.7/k       ..              ..          ..        15.2
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  44.573       42.37Tk      ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.91         7.97k       ..              ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9L        19.67k       ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     110.0            86.5        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      91.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0            44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       74.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  Av. 1961-65;  /g  Registered, not all practicing in the countrv;  /h  Govt. establishments
only;  /i  1972;  /i  1963-64;  /k  1966-67;  /1  1962;  /n  1973.
nost Recent Estimate of SNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-34 -                                                                              Ammx I
psui01M 07 $0CrAL MICAdPoDs 
Notes: Althbough the data are dreen fromi sources generally judged the mat authorititive and reliable, It shou~ld alsoc he Doted that they way not he intern.-
tofi.    onsrale be 'ss  of the lad  of etandad1oed defniticos end oonepte used by differet countries. IcLletn   the data. The date  r,notee
a    du to . dsribe orders of magnItude, Ldiate trends, end oh-aretrins  -rab  major d.iffersooa  het.ea. countries.
The  W4qfj.       k,y35   far each ind4oator ar  papulation-eighted geometric mesas, exaludlog the acres  v-lues of the iodicator and the mast populated
cosuneyinaah goup.Iso. o lak of  abs,poop averae  of all Indicators far Capibal Surplus Oil  aparters ad of indicators of Access toWtr and  xreab
DIPi -as, Reusing, lnonm  Distribution end Poverty for other bocntay groups ar  populAtica-eighted ge~atric seas oithout ecoluico of the extreme values and
the  nst populated Country.  Snethe co v rac f ooonrie  egth  IndIcators deten   on. aalahiity of dta ad is not uniform   osati-n must he exero iced
in_relatiaa_acsacesof_n  Indiao   osohr    la   vrgsaesgl   sfla  aprciaiccofeetd'vlues ehan oceOsri   the values Of one
Lndiostar at a tim  ase, The c.-try and refrence crocucs.
1%AR Ii  Ctbhsuend sqm.).                                                                  Access to ticreta Ditspsa   (oreto   ouaIon) - total. urbn  ed rura 
t=f  Pealsrface area comprising land are  sad inland veters.                             Muhro  p(P tte,we,Sorra)svebycrtadpsla
dariCultural -  Moet rest estimate of agriocultural are  used taapoorarly                  psroentegs  of thei r repective pouain, cE-ta. disposal        Include
or permanetly for cropa, pasturee, maket and kitchen gardensa or is                     the collec tion  nd dipsmal, cith or cithout treatmnet, of hua  sueveto
lie falloe.                                                                             -an     t-te  by o6ttr-horn  sYstem   or the use of pit privies and c.ila-
( )- 07  par o&pit. estimates at cren-t market prices,                                    -_ci   - Poputlatin d ivdd  bY otoher of practiclog pbwysiciansa
biidifliid  iiiii  cavrsio   method us Wcald B-sk Atlas (1916- 78 basis);                               an med cal  aico  at univrsdity leel
1960, 1910 , ad L1978 data.                                                                                  iduai    a   usin  Person -Polaindivided boy nosir of practicing sale
SEMI C7SIRGI0N P   CAPTA -  nnualcosmtio  ofomsoadun fml   rdascress, practical ouea,sd aseostact nurses.
-cal so  lgnte  perlem   natural  -aaed. bydro-, oulear end ga-Ponu.ation per Hoceita1 Dad - totalt-ubanp                            ed rura  - Populationtoal  ircc,
thesl. eectrcity  in  iloasmsof cal auvaentPercpta           0,                and rural) divided by their resetv    uhro   oPit-l .eds  -calaie  i
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                      puiblic end private general end apecialiced bostpital end reth1bllitation  -eter.
dospitale are eetahliehaenta permnetly staffed by at l.eat one piyeici-o
POMJIATI0II An VITki StATSTIC                                        70is Ztablishmen.ts pruvidLag pricoipally custodial oe ar  ict ibluded. Rurli
Tota  Ppaic        Pd-erelco)   As of July L; 196G, 1970,sd                               hospitals, - hovr, Include health and medical ost-r  tot permeneotly atf fed
1977 data,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~by apbysiciao(hoot by a mdical uajsstat, nurse, nldoife, etc.) chib offer
Oman Population (prteot of total) my atiffec orbs  to total Population;         in-patient ~baocdaticn  sod provide a limited. renge of medical facolitie..
different definitions;."t of ura   ra  s    fetoWbraility of data            idmiss,inee oar RoeitalBe  - Total nobhr of adniasl.os  to or discihrgee fr..
among coanris :i!960, 1970, end 1975 data.                                               h.spitala dividd by thti tutor of bado.
1      - C.,rret  pepLlatico prjacticee  -r  basd Id              RfttCll
tOta"   p    atln by agad se  sod their sartality end fertility                 Averese Sioc of Housahoid (prceper ihusoId).- totl   -rban  and rura  -
rates. Projection parster  for sortality rates com prise of three                     A tooehoid  comits of a grop of iodivtidualsi  shar              igquarte-  and
Ievele asnmiog lifa eopeotaoy at birthI  isre -ing cith coutry1e                      thair ala  enl.A boardar or Lodger sq  v nay out bv iJoblatd Ic the
per capita ince  leve, end femal  life expectancy otahilioing at                      ivsho.Ld for attistloal puPose...
77.5 Years.  The paretare for fertility rate aln hav  tires la.-I.                  Acareo wihr  fceenspr   rom-ttl   ra.ad rua  - Average vinie
acensiog deline 1a fertility acording to in.anme level and past                       of per..on Perrom-            ura,an:alocpied .....otti-oldolos
family olennlng performace. ech coutryIs then sosipnd on  of thes                     res..pectively,  Dnelliogo occlude no-eraet otrcur    and uoloccptedpono
nine  cmbinations of  -otality and fertility trande for projection                  Access to ilectrility  cretof idoellingn) - total, orh. and rura  -  Coo-
purpose. "'-tio-al damiliogo ci   elecricty  o lIving quorer  er percentage  o
sttaioanr  poPolatico  - in a  taticory population then  is eo gpooch                   total, urban, and rurL dallinge  epoley
sioce the birth rate is equal to tic death rate, and alec the age
structu,e reaccntant, fhie  is acieved only after fertility rntoe                OPEa TO
dacli.a to the veplaceee  la-1 If unit not reproduction r.to  ch..                  hAcavd tE-ole-t Raticos
each gesortion oftc           replace  Itself eetLy.  Ths stationery puPa-            Prinary ccl -toal,t       ml  n   eml         ro   -totl,  ole and feale enrol-
Lotio  aieca  esimated on tho bale of the projected chareterletive                       enofalgeat tia riry levei as prcntage  of ree p-tive prianry
of the pcaa Idci  toe year PyE, and the rat  of dsclioe of fertility                    ecoeepopulIations; oremally inoludes chiliren  ged ti-li yaro cut
rttorepaeetlvl                                                                      adjuted for different lengths of prisery education;fo  c_-toiv-  ith
You  tatiZ  ay pultion i  roachad -  h  ertnsainr   oplto                                  nvra   dcto   eeri..ot sap exceed 100 perc..ct  iove 0000 pupil,
si-e ha been reached,                                                                   arbalo  or ahov  tho official ach..! ago.
Ftvulatico De"city                                                                        icodr1col-ttl   ueadfeae-Cnoe   on.c;cvnio
Per.   Rn. - Mid-Year population per aqoar  kilc... tr (li  ht-iovre) of                 edooatiooveo.qireentYoo   or  er f approved princr  icct_unt:
total araprtid.e general vctonl   rteahor traicig icotr..ot.oco  foo po.oL
For nc. th   gricultursl land - Conputed as aic- for agriculturl land                     usull  of 12 to 17 yoare of age;  --repccdec- e. o         ..c ore. dce-ily
o.!y.                                          .                                        eluded.
P=poatlcdeirutr   prcet) - Children  i0-i4 y-r),  -kridg-age                              Ocaicleaoctpor-et of oe--ce.roo    .i L-ct-iov                     :ctict.t  .n.
"4bcAyeas)  actdtre.tire   (is year  ad  -cv) aa perotnage  of old-year                _ techical, lodutroal, or otter pr-gren   ouch o eroe oPe.vtlorn
Population; 1960, 1910, and 1977 data.                                                    depar-t.et  of ...o.dr_Y io-tJtt-iooo
Pcoulation Growth Rate  Percent) - 'toa  - Annal growth rates of total mid-               Pupi-teahe  ratio  - orim          and s--cd.r  - Pctal ot'.i-ot  c-oloinI
yerppcono for i95pco,lt-7,ad 1970-77.                                              prmay-n oecod    ev ls  iided by  -anev o.f t-aher  to tOeonoc
P,= ,alo  dcccth Rat _j2eroet) - urban - Aoo-Ia groeth ratec of urban                       opninLcec
popuatics fo  193-00,193070, soo 1971-7                                         Adult litereo   rate Lpe-Vct) -L  enadulIto   nilo tova   anoite) 
Crode Parth Raco 'c- thousand)  A-Iu a  IIoe births Per thousad of xid-                      apeo-v-ntog  of total adult populatio,, sgr  15 year  nod ove.
year populatIo; L 3, 1971, end 1977 data.
Crude Doath tal  "per9bttua-d) - Anonal deethc Per thoooand of cid-yea                COiIO' 
iroesHeorductca Rte-Averag   nohe  of da-ghter   a cs   ill tear                     -etig Lac  than eight cerec..;  ocloodec anclaov-, oche-   and viLouo
tobar por..L reproductive p-ariod  f seeprecspeetae                                     ei
specifte fertility rae;oaal  five- earavrae  eeicg10i: yT9,                           hal   eevr    e  iocn   coLto)-ALL nypec of  -wei-  for di
i970, sd 1I5                                                                            brcodoaotu  ogoclpoi.e   iuooo   oonon   clln.iLvtc
Fesily P"1500g ~- dovet-re  inoa  (th-tosde) - Annual tiie  vf                            reeoriouticsdt  vo   bccgitotr.fccictttoo
urveptore of birth-octrvi devices under aupice  of naoni  eyefetat ffccreec   crt  s-l. cot ye onep-ribl  conv- 0.,,t    .tts
p,iacic  progrnoa                                                                       n.iosied lice.n. Ag.
Faitly PaionIoc - rre'          Iret of Ynrolod ocea) -Percen.tage of maried            TV Receivers, Iper tIhuo_d popuiati_t,.Y/ce... e-t for b-vosoto  t~ geteni
atone  of oild-earoo   age   5-'  year) co  bs hr'th-co-trci doci.e.         piite tPouandponlctioi; e-oludenocieoe  T                                 -eecet.voitrov
to all maried one   0sm   ge grop,                                                      and in yea chen  -egiotrti.o  of IV neto oat
N-.spacr Cir-ulati-c  oertihuand pe ,lti-?    Sh- thheov   overge oioolat4oc
FOCI An1 NITRhTTICt                                                                          r'al    .   1t~                                          W -         -it-
lir  of foo 7Prduction Per acptIc  i199-71-iiO) - Lodec of Per capita                      eoe    rsrl  t   evdc    eea   en. rcon  idp                      dt.b   lly
annua  prcdcctico of al  fond coditi-n  Prcd-ctioa cludan cod and                       if itopad    Ia   estfu   onsae
fved and is  nv -dar year basin.  -cditienvocer prienry goods                          ice  AnooP'   ttend-tce cc    otorco-xr   0teviir:   oo
'e..  oesoae istad  f  nga)  hlc  ae eibe ad  cntiootreeo.Iii during  he year,  -coluog  -oisoiv-  to  rv-m ic-otr noLd -tZttOc
e:.g. toffee and ten are e-Iuded).  Aggrcsste produotioc If eah voentry                 -ito.
Lu_basdncaio    averag  Prducer pric  -cigbto.
Per  apoa rvol7ofv_lro         t IpreofCeornct) . Cputed from               LALR FOtRCE
rer-gy eqoiicleot oret food o_ppliec  _a.blanl  it voocypr  nia                     Ttl ao    oo  'ticoiaads)      -cnaclyatite  -eron, i-olodi   ar-e
Per day.  Acnomaiie oppiie    cpie          etcprdoiv  o             "Port' leso       oroonand-ovPloyvo io- votI.diog houreo-ie, soet    t                 ei'
ea -t,ad obangee In  oo.    se- Wt cupplec c-ci,de aniel feed, oecda,            10 cainue cointroc- ace .tot -p-bsle.
qostities  -nd io fond provecciog, and in coo   ociitriboto.ce. Require-            Foa (ecn)-PeaoLbrfret  percentage of totaL  inhr frce
ent   or   oisated by YAO baeonphyoooicgical ccstocra                          yiitr"3oet      ao  force  o fbI            niog, -tornt1, htintin   nod
activItY ond tesIth -coonidertiZ oco ae tal tePrtoe::' egi                             ioi *    eroetage of total labor foo._
ag  ad scourioin    f popolato, us   hon   L   uuc  for"                          Icu-try  veproct)  r. mo- foo-   c  iciog,octrt:,ccfetogto
-ate ut h-ceod  evlIee trooty  cacsd gas a  pcc-ttge o  totl cco'cve
Peronptn  uppy o  ortei    crn  pe  Icy) - Footeosocetec  of per              PatilaicPaeodot-toa    ae   n    -Icil  -Poioptoco
onpita vet  upply of food per do. 0et soppiY of food is aeficed asacinity ran. ac -cputed astotal, -o, cod f-nle Lobor 'con    er-
above. Pqoireneto for  ll occityicvtabiished by 1CrA proide forfa            vetage  of -totl, cle and feenie rppoaiot if all uge-oeacoctio
mici-m  al1oanc  of Io g000  of toti  prtoi .Per lap aco P0 gonn  of                  L7     197, pod 1975 dtac.  The-   r                    _loprtontooonteoofleticg
oisa  ad Pulneccoteic, of  aich IC grnu   -old be asias  protein.                     g-sec structure of Ocr poPolotio, and 1-9g nie           -cd.  A      -fcointv
These  otadards ar  Lonr than those of "5 g          Is   f total Prtiannr from  notional ..0c.
PS grin  of animal pro tec anY an averag  fr the ocrld, proposeid by FAR            .E ~ 20~ pdon"'            t -bti.of -pvouioto   coder 15 and o5 and o-ert
io tbe Third World Food il_e.                                                         the    o  forve Fic ago g ..op of 15f. -"  an
Per onpita  rtic-      pi- fo  oosi.tolor   Protein supply of foot
7ttid  ceec I--i Motlt  Rt  pr  had?                   ,.oouI deatha Per thiou.aid      Perccoga of PrivatetIcona  toc  001.    oaoh &ad 0n00  - R eoccodtby cicoet
g0 agedopiIfs,tohIetic thic poe grc-p; foo  -st ocre-                                 5porenn, ricoes                       ..pecct    oet jO p.evoet, an  pooret a  percent
opiog ooocvo.ec ota derivd fry  lfe voile,                                        if b.-ooo lde.
lf  petao  0bIrh :yenrs) - Average senior of Years of Life                       E.toatlie  AbncLote Poverty foo        - Lve  '00$ 0c- oncit.) - ipsob  o   im 
ceao.o,a  atditbo193,  b7t  ad 1977. cc.iAcic    oet   cc   iee  i-ic  coe  ee  ~Ici    hioctoio'.:co
Infant Mrtaity Onto   e  thouad) . Aooual Oc-tho of infata unoer one                      totrtMicea lL   c...q.ate oit pos  setnl-vcfc   snomt                     O
pea  of age Per thoo.oan  Live biotb-                                                   nffocdci.I
Acceen t  laYs Raer  peroet of puulntion.- total   rban, ad mora  -                  IoiardRltvePvry -ooe leL  tjU.9 ber capita) - orh   and cur1i
taho   ofccvpe 'toolora,ndualcity .easnale  ceon                                   hral r-lct ove Povery inoon  lOve  -0o.htld of ovr-eMe,                npt
cafe ancr oupply  IcoluIdes trencec o-face eaters or t inreate  cot                     Peroa    bccro   u   ooty   Ihi Leve  to leo -d fron toe  -roa  Le-e
_.oncteeovoated cater  -hc as otho from protected  ebolce   epringa,                     otn edj-tonen  for higie  coat of `lvng:   rbec  rse
sod   nitr  echo11) -s preroe. ages of hict  -ep-oti-e  popui_icc.. 7                 Eto-totd  ocint_o  Belo- Abcolt.c Povrty  oon  Le-i  percet) - urna  and
anioan area a puhlio foutootol  or stendpont located noot mare thanroa   Perv-t of pcpolo-o-  urha  -ac  rural  hb. o-ennb- tc-
200 _sters fro  a hous  oy hr ocasidere  a  beog oitihd  oavnble
anvesnIf thatouo    o  ualues  esoai   -cas  coud impl
that t he   -$.aeife or mahrIf the hicu..bhld do cot have to openyd a                                                           cna ad3-oool beta Li-tico
diuprop-tin..t- part of the icy in fatohiag the f-alyly  caner oecds                                                      Eoonomic Alysoc and P-jecti-o  Loep--ert
Aug9o 1979



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
BA24GLADESE
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:          89.5 million  (July 1980)
GNP Per Capita:      US$90 (FY80)
Amount            Average Annual Increase (2)       Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)              (in current prices)
Indicator                            in current prices)
FY79             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60        FY70       FY75      FY80 La
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product lb                    9,512.5                4.0      -0.6        6.3    100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
Agriculture lb                            5,174.0                3.1       -1.3       4.3      59.9      56.9       63.6      51.9
Industry lb                               1,170.2                 7.9      -3.2       8.9       7.7       9.6       8.6       12.5
Services /b                               3,168.3                4.9        3.3       6.6      30.1      30.0       25.0      28.8
Consumption                                  9,187.5               4.4       -0.7       6.7      92.4      92.8      100.0     102.1
Gross investment                             1,330.0               10.9     -10.9      13.5       6.9      11.3        7.0      15.0
Exports of goods & nfs                         603.0               0.8      -11.7       4.3      10.0       8.3        3.1       7.1
Imports of goods & ufs                      1,603.0                8.8      -12.0      14.4       9.3      12.5       10.1      24.3
Gross national savings                         465.0               26.5     -17.7        ...      0.9       6.1        0.9      -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75      FY79      FYBO
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                            603.0                                            100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                     217.0                                              41.9       31.4       36.0     30.1
Manufactures                                 386.0                                             58.1       68.6       64.0     69.9
Merchandise imports                          1,603.0                                            100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                        250.0                                              44.1       42.2       15.6     29.5
Petroleum                                    186.0                                              3.2       11.1      11.6      17.6
Machinery & equipment                        382.0                                             13.8        9.6       23.8     25.8
Other                                        785.0                                             38.9       37.1      49.0      27.1
FY74        FY75         FY76        FY77         FY78        FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator,
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                7.9661      8.8759      14.8521     15.4667      15.1215     15.2193
Export price index                                     104.6       132.9        108.7       117.7        136.7       168.9
Import price index                                     156.9       215.4        195.8       189.1        180.2       214.2
Terms of trade index                                    66.7        61.7         55.5        62.2         75.8        78.9
As I GDP
(at current prices)
FY73        FY75         FY77        FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                      5.0         5.4          9.5        10.3
Current expenditure                                                 6.5          4.5          7.8         7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         -1.5         40.9        +1.7         +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                  8.8         3.1          9.8        11.4
Foreign financing                                                    7.1         2.4          7.8         8.5
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (M)                                                      4.2         -0.7            5.7
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                                           1.5         -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (2)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
lb  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
not available
- not applicable
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 36 -
iMLACE OF PAThMtfS. E3!R2M  AL CAPITAL AND DET8
(million uS9 in current prices)
Aectul                                                 Prolected
rfy74     nf75        y76      FY77       FY78      F9Y7s9      m0         ry1      nY82       F83
5ALAhR OF PAYIfNIS
met sxports of goods 6 *rvic.s                            -535.7    -696.4    -847.4   -340.3    -786.0         865.0    -610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0    2271.0
taportS of goode 6 services                              418.6      502.7      507.6     610.0      643.0     819.0       993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
reports of goode & services                              984.3    1199.1    1353.0       950.3    1429.0    1684.0       2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Not trsnsfers
Curraet ecount balance                                     -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    .340.3    -786.0       865.0    -1610.0    1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Dirwet pri-et. iGVetcuant                                     -         '          '          -        12.0       U5.0       20.0       23.0      30.0       35,0
L.LT loans (not)                                            274.4     508.2      502.9      246.0     399.0      465.4      861.5      950.0     995.0    1143.0
Crnrt & grant-like flows                                    347.0     395.6      244.5      229.7    388.1      495.2       504.5      810.0     950.0    1100.0
Other capital flo.e (tot)                                     2.0    -358.0      153.1    -216.1       14.0       13.4       88.0      -45.0     153.0       59.0
Change in reserves (- * ineresse)                           -57.e      151.3     -53.1      80.7      -25.2    -124.0       136.0      -22.0     -71.0      -50.0
twero.ciou&I reserves (end of period)                       115.0     266.3      213.2    293.9       268.7     393.0       257.0     279.0      350.0     400.0
Reserves as eonthb of iports of nat year                     1.iJ      2.36       2.69       2.47      1.91       1.81       1.09       1.04      1.18       1.26
FY74      Ff7s       mY76      FY77      Tm8        FY7
CROSS DI030RS8TENi
offtciol grant.                                              347.0     395.6      244.5      229.7     386.1     495.2
Gros. diaborseaet. of ML.7 loas                              285.1     529.1      569.3     276.1      434.4     520.8
Concengionol                                                 201.5     468.0      538.9     244.7      399.8     500.3
silatwral                                                    82.4     305.6      357.3     117.3      237.3     226.8
IDA                                                          51.0     112.5      128.2      86.1       8S.2     152.5
other  oltilattral                                           68W.      49.9       53.4      41.3       74.3     121.0
Non-.ootaeslon&L                                              83.7      61.2       30.5      31.5       34.5       20.4
official eport cr-dits                                       40.6      43.3       16.3       4.2        1.7       3.3
IBRD
Other Wultilateral                                            5.4       0.3        1.2       0.5        0.5       0.1
private                                                      37.7      15.6       12.8      26.8       32.3       17.0
XT7NALi DEBT
De4 64tstandino  sd disbursed (end of period)                490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2581.8    3005.1
Official                                                    383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    2856.4-
IBRD                                                         -        54.9       54.9      54.9       54.9      54.9
IDA                                                        105.6     255.3      379.8     46.9       554.2    706.7
Other                                                      277.7     930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
Priatet                                                     107.3     118.3      104.7      116.3     139.4     148.7
Undisbureed Debt                                             590.2    1033.2      952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
013? OiORV7ICI
Total debt service paym_ts                                    18.0      31,0       88.3      58.5       67.4      95.4
IntereSt                                                      7.3      10,1       21.9      28.4       32.1      40.1
Paymenre as ? eaports                                          4.3       6.2       17.4       9.6       10.5       11.6
Pay   to as % CNIP                                             0.2       0.3        1.3       0.9        0.9        1.2
Averag* Intreat rate o new loan  (')                           3.2        2.0       1.7        1.6       1.5        1.7
OfficiAsl                                                     2.9       2.0        1.6        1.3       1.4        1.6
Privat                                                        4.6       2.3        7.8       6.4        6.2        6.1
Average  rturity of n    lo ans (yers)                        25.7      35.3       41.7      40.1       37.8       34.7
OfficiAl                                                     28.3      35.8       42.2      40.8       38.1       35.1
Privete                                                      13.4      15.2       11.3       11.0       9.5       14.8
eA0 ROU? EXOSURE t%3)
28I0 E00./toDal D-                                                      4.0        3.0         2.6      2.1         1.8
111D dlobuc-  rt./totl Irse. disbucntS                        -         _          _                    _           _
IJRD debt service/total debt servica e                                  .          1.8        5.6       5.0        4.0
IDA WD /total DOD                                             21.5     18.7       21.0        22.5     21.4        23.5
IDA diebor_nre/totl gro.s di.br_w.st.                        17.8     21.2       22.3       31.1      20.3        29.2
IDA debt service/total debt Service                            1.1      3.2        2.4         5.2      5.6         4.6
As I of Debt O.totanding
at Lnd of FY79
TiOM  StRUCTUER
Maturity structure of debt outtanding (1)
Iaturitie  de within 5 years                                                         12.0
Maturities  due within 10 yers                                                       32.7
Interest structure of debt out.tanding (7)
Interest due within first y ar                                                        1.7
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                     -  (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower             Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                      54.9    428.28       -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                   25.00      0.87
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                       13.00     0.35
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.00      1.59
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.30      0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                  21.00      3.50
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.00      4.03
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50      3.91
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                          8.70      0.21
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                  20.00      9.02
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00    19.52
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00      8.68
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    18.47
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    12.96
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00      7.30
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50      3.39
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00      8.35



- 38 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ MIillion      /a
Amount
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                          16.00   13.76
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                          21.00   18.41
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                     10.00    7.96
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                   5.00    3.78
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                         75.00    3.05
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                       21.00   16.84
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                       25.00   24.96
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                     7.00    6.97
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.00    5.50
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.00   17.58
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                        75.00    4.48
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.00    9.85
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                       6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                        25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                           32.00   32.00
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
Power Distribution                      28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.00   21.77
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports              25.00    6.94
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                           25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway                             10.00   10.00 /b
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                       50.00   50.00
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pump                              37.00   37.00 /b
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Second Chittagong Water
Supply                                 20.00   20.00 /b
Total,                                                      54.9  1,326.28  510.77
of which has been repaid                                   0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,325.88
Total undisbursed                                            0       510.77  510.77
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
lb   Not effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads orig-
inally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by World
Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This
request is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B
and C (Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) is reported to have been
substantially completed, except for some minor telecommunications equipment
scheduled to arrive shortly. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1980.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
The project provides flood protection to a gross area of about 130,000
ac and irrigation, by means of low lift pumps, to about 60,000 ac. Drainage
and water control is provided by a main regulator in the south of the project
area on the S. Dakatia River and irrigation water is provided by a pumping
station to the north of the area on the same river. Both structures are comple-
ted and the project includes improved agricultural extension, equipment and
vehicles, housing and technical assistance. Cropping intensity is expected to
rise from 165% to 230%.
After a poor start, due to war, natural disasters, delays in land
acquisition, and weak administration and management, the project has been
substantially completed except for arrival of some additional maintenance
equipment, completion of about six miles of channel remaining to be improved
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 40 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4
as well as 2,000 ft of borrow pit canal, held up by a land dispute. Project
benefits have been obtained over part of the area and production has increased
from 69,000 tons in 1976/77 to 97,000 tons in 1978/79 and at full development
in 1982183 it is expected to be up to 203,000 tons. The fisheries improvement
program in the project area (financed under Credit 605-BD) is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned in FY80. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million
from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated
to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the
Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural Dev-
elopment Corporation (BADC) component; the last installment of processing
equipment will be installed for processing the current season's wheat crop;
all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are poor
marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multiplication.
Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and marketing
consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certification Agency
continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is currently
under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of GOB's recent
strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support intensive
seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980 and
extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions are
known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump
units are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are in store and ready for
issue. The target for the FY80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or
44,000 acres planted.



- 41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making good progress having been behind schedule
due to initial delays in hiring project consultants. The consultants for the
irrigation portion of the project began work in September 1976, but their
effectiveness was limited by delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment
and in the assignment of local consultants to assist in the design work. This
has been resolved. After a period of good progress, project civil works have
again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with
the contractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works
have resumed at normal pace.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. Initially, despite some teething prob-
lems, the project was progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the
following weaknesses became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the
various ministries and agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization
and ineffective supervision of the project by the implementing agency, the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the
cooperative system (complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate
training of project personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the
field of rural credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with
IRDP, undertook a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire,
setting out an action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the
Government in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales
of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has
procured in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which have been distributed by
January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000 shallow tube-
wells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construction of work-
shops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP)



- 43 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
intensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Construction
contracts have been awarded for Bangladesh Agricultural Institute (BARI)
research stations and Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) head-
quarters building. Procurement of building materials and equipment is in
progress. Reports from BARC Technical Working Groups (outlining research
subprojects), a National Research Plan, and a Five-Year Plan for BARI have
been produced and reviewed by IDA. A total of 16 Ph.D students have been
placed in overseas universities. The appointment of a consultant for research
monitoring has not yet been made. The unsuccessful in-country M.Sc. training
program should be redesigned.
.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start in 1980.



- 44 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This credit has only recently been declared effective. Fisheries
and engineering consultants have been engaged and are expected to commence
field operations by April 1980. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been
prepared.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Effectiveness of this credit has been delayed due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget and establishment of the joint
project fund.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 million Credit of April 4,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction.  Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



- 45 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1980, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.6 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$16.7 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been outstanding for US$2.6 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of April 30, 1980 disbursements were US$72.0 million and QAR
had been outstanding for US$1.3 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of April 30, 1980 disbursements were about US$70.5 million and
QAR had been outstanding for US$2.9 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds have been fully committed.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
This credit has only recently been declared effective.



- 46 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of Taka funds. The
External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance informed the
Resident Mission that the allocation of the required funds (approx. 40 million
Taka) would be released in March 1980. In such case, the project could be
substantially completed by the current closing date, December 31, 1980. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Civil works associated with the tech-
nical education component, although 30 months behind schedule are virtually
complete and the polytechnics are now operating. About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. Project costs (in
dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.
Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works which until the end of 1978 was about
three months ahead of schedule had slowed down in 1979 due to shortage of
local funds. However Funds have now been made available and completion is
still expected within the Credit Closing Date. Training of teachers for the
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by transfer
of instructors to the extension staff due to downgrading of salaries.
Little progress has been made on the recruitment of technical assistance
experts, the development of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of
extension staff. The Bank is reviewing the project to determine the relevance
of the technical assistance component, since it appears that the studies of
Agricultural Extension Service (AES) seem to be no longer necessary after the
Training and Visit Sytem (TNV) of extension has been established.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project has recently been declared effective after having met the
four conditions of effectiveness. The Project Implementation Unit manager and
architect are in post. All sites for project buildings have been made available.
The equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA appro-
val. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training Center
(TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have been
concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.



- 47 -                    ANNEX II
Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Clos-vig Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
has improved; and the internal reorganization of the Population Control and
Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by the management study,
is underway. This reorganization will not be effective in improving program
implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill its large number of
vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions; and (b) simplify the
administrative, financial and recruitment procedures. Actions have been
assured by the Government on both counts.  A program has been started for the
retraining of field workers which should improve their performance. While
the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare Centers, built
through community participation, has been encouraging, the progress on other
buildings in the project has been slower than expected. Due to the slow pace
of construction, disbursement of the credit has also shown less than expected
improvements.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The closing date of the credit has been extended to June 30, 1980,
by which time all works will be completed and the Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed. Reinstatement of shoulders on the Feni Bypass, opened to
public traffic on July 1, 1979, is virtually complete and repair of isolated
pavement failures was to be completed by the end of February 1980. Finishing
works on the RHD Headquarters building are nearing completion and the building
is largely occupied. The revised final report on the Surma River crossing
is still awaited. The arbitrators appointed to deal with the contractor's
claims on the Sitalakhya Bridge were unable to reach agreement and the matter
has now been referred to the umpire. No further problems are anticipated with
the project.



- 48 -                     ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$8.25 million (97% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
The Borrower has made good progress in calling equipment tenders and
in inviting proposals from approved short-listed consultants. Appointment of
consultants and ECNEC approval of the project proforma are conditions of
Credit effectiveness. Credit Agreement Effectiveness has been extended from
March 20, to June 30, 1980. No major problems are foreseen at this time.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's



49 -                    ANNEX II
Page 13
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have decided on the technique to be adopted
for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is
to be made in 1980 for delivery by mid-1982. The rate of physical installa-
tions during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from the
previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Govern-
ment has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively
and should be made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satisfactory
accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the beneficiary,
but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular in considera-
tion of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty-two subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 13 subprojects
totaling about $4.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be



- 50 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14
expected to be committed within the next few months. The project is pro-
gressing well with no major problems.
Power ProJects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date:  November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND FERTILZIER IMPORTS CREDIT
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare project
The credit is the second in a series, and utilizes
substantially the preparation effort for Fertilizer
Imports I, updated to the present. 1/
(b)  Agency which prepared project.
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA.
(c)  Project first presented to IDA.
September 1978; (original request to finance two
years imports was divided into two credits).
(d)  First IDA mission to review project.
October 1978.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal mission:
February 1980.
(f)  Completion of negotiations:
May 1979.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
IDA is assisting the Government in the preparation of a
medium term Agricultural Production Plan (paragraph 48).
1/   Credit preparation benefitted from fertilizer sector work performed over
several years, starting with a fertilizer marketing and distribution
study financed in July 1975 under the First Technical Assistance Credit
(409-BD).



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Assistance to the Government in coordination of aid
for any fertilizer program will be provided through the
Bangladesh Aid Group and local coordination meetings in
Dacca (paragraph 91).
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Government and IDA would consult with each
other on domestic fertilizer pricing to ensure
continued progress in reducing the total cost
of the subsidy (paragraph 84);
(b) Foodgrain procurement prices would be set at levels
designed to provide adequate production incentives
to farmers (paragraph 85);
(c) All necessary action would be taken, including
utlization of Bangladesh foreign exchange if
necessary, to ensure availability of sufficient
fertilizer to meet an agreed FY81 consumption
target (paragraph 91);
(d) The Government would review with the Association by
December 31, 1980, the results of its ongoing study
to determine appropriate policies concerning fertil-
izer stock levels for the Second Five Year Plan
period (paragraph 92);
(e) Taka funds equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from
Credit proceeds will be deposited in an account
being maintained in the Bangladesh Bank and would
be utilized for financing of development expenditures
(paragraph 96);
(f) A special condition of effectiveness would be:
enactment of increases in the domestic fertilizer
price (paragraph 84).



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Table 1
BANGLADESH
Fertilizer Imports
.                            Year                            1,000 Tons
1972/73                              185
1973/74                              141
1974/75                              289
1975/76                              348
1976/77                               37
1977/78                              387
1978/79                              614
1979/80 (estimated)                  570
Source: BADC



BANGLADESH - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
BCIC - FERTILIZER PRODUCTION AND CAPACITY UTILIZATION a/
(In '000 tons per year)
FY77                       FY78                       FY79                FY80 Projected
Design                  Operating                 Operating                  Operating                  Operating
Plant        Product   Capacity   Production   Rate as %   Production   Rate as %   Production   Rate as %   Production   Rate as %
Fenchuganj   Urea        115.5        77.5          67          61.4           53          59.5           52         95.0             82
Sulfate     13.2         9,3           70          9.6           73           5.3           40           9.0           68
Chorasal     Urea        374.0       208.0          56         151.0           40        236.1           63         240.0           64
Chittagong
No. 1      TSP          32.0                      0
41.3         27           62.3          41           80.0           52
No. 2      TSP         120.0       48.0          40
Total                    654.7       342.8         52          263.3          40          363.2         55          424.0           64
a/ Based on 330 operating days for Fenchuganj and Ghorasal, and 300 operating
days for the TSP plants at Chittagong according to industry practice.
Industrial Projects Department
May 14, 1980                                                                                                                                          X
'-c



BANGLADESH
Projected Fertilizer Balance
FY80                         FY81                          FY82
Urea  TSP/DAP  MP  Total   Urea  TSP/DAP  MP  Total   Urea  TSP/DAP  MP  Total
A.  Opening Stock (July 1, 1979)    223    105         41   369    312    137        51   500    320    160        55    550
B.  Domestic Procurement               330      80           410    410      95           505    615       95            710
C. Imports
Saudi Grant                      88.1                  88.1
USAID Grant                              40            40
FRG Grant                        17      16.7          33.7
CIDA                                             59.7  59.7
IDA (7th Import Credit)                  20            20
IDA (Credit 944-BD)              70      34           104
EEC                               70     10            80
IFAD
Netherlands                       20.5   45            65.5
DANIDA                                   15            15
Bulgaria (barter)                 16.4                 16.4                                                                V
OPEC (Sp. Loan Fund)              22                   22
Japan Grant                        5      4             9
6th Yen Credit                           12            12
Belgium                                   1.3           1.3
NORAD                                     3.5            3.5
ADB
Total Imports            309.0  201.5   59.7 570.2  303    273         74   650      45    320       65    430
D.  Sales Projections                  550    250      50   850    705    345        70  1120     775    400       75   1250
E.  Estimated Closing Stock            312    136.5   50.7 499.2
F.  Stock Requirements                 290    145      50   485
G.  Shortfall (excess)                 (22)      8.5   (0.7)(14.2) 320    160        55   535    215    180        45    440
H C4



BANG LAD ESH
FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
TOTAL FERTILIZER OFFTAKE IN BANGLADESH, FISCAL YEARS, 1965-81
'000 L. Tons
of Product
1200-
1,100.0
1100P.M
1000
715.4
700
600
5126    '                          Ia,
500                                                                                                77 
457.2
400                                         379.8-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
304.4~~~~~~~~~-
300           7T                                     79.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
43~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 
100  938   106.2                                                                                                 .     I 
100 ~~~~~~                                                        ~~11
Year   165   1966      97 16          1969   1970    1971   1972   197       19497                          178      99     180      91
Change          13.2   +52.6  +30.2   +6.7    +20      +98    -99 +73 -.               264    635     121 +96         34     +49 +94
Source: BADC                                                                                                              VVorld Bank - 20206



