Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USIE ONLY
Reprt NO. 11411
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1160-CE)
DECEMBER 7, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Report (April 1981) - US$1.00 = Rs 18.0
Average 1982-1989              - US$1.00  =  Rs 27.8
Completion Year (1990)         - US$1.00  -  Rs 40.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APT         -     Agricultural Planning Team
DAS         -     Department of Agrarian Services
DCS         -     Department of Census and Statistics
FO          -     Farmer Organization
GOSL        -     Government of Sri Lanka
ID          -     Irrigation Department
NIRP        -     National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
SM          -     Supervision Mission
TS          -     Tank Supervisor
VIRP        -     Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
WOP         -     Without Project
WP          -     With Project
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 7, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Village
Irrigation Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1160-CE)
Attached for information is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Sri Lanka - Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1160-CE)" prepared jointly by the
South Asia Regional Office and FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
Despite civil strife, start-up delays, budgetary problems, shortage of technical staff,
inexperienced contractors and poor integration of activities, the project achieved its main objectives
of increasing agricultural production and farm incomes in existing village irrigation schemes, although
over a much smaller area than originally planned. As such, the project is rated as satisfactory, even
though the economic rate of return, reestimated at completion at 16 percent, is based on questionable
assumptions.
Sustainability of the project is promising for about half of all schemes, where
functioning farmer organizations have been established. For the others sustainability will depend on
the formation of effective farmer organizations for water management and system maintenance.
The Project Completion Report is informative and is of satisfactory quality. An audit
is proposed to reassess the economic rate of return and sustainability of the project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1160-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .              ..........................................................                                                   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ...............................................                                                           iii
PART  I  -  PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE   ..................                                                         1
A.    Project  Identity   .............................................                                                             1
B.    Background   ...................................................                                                              1
C.    Project  Objectives  and  Description   ...........................                                                           1
D.    Project  Design  and  Organization   ..............................                                                          3
E.    Project  Implementation   ........................................                                                            4
F.    Project  Results   ..............................................                                                             7
G.   Project  Sustainability   .......................................                                                             9
H.    Bank  Performance   .............................................                                                           10
I.    Borrower  Performance   .........................................                                                           11
J.    Project  Relationship   .........................................                                                           12
K.    Consulting  Services  and  Procurement   ..........................                                                         12
L.    Project  Documentation  and  Data   ...............................                                                         12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                 .........               14
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................                                                               21
A.   Related  IDA  Credits   ........                     ...............                ...................                      21
B.    Project  Timetable   ........                    ................                ....................                       22
C.    Credit  Disbursements   .........................................                                                           22
D.    Project  Implementation   .......                       ............ ..              ..................                     23
E.    Project  Cost  and  Financing   .................                             ..        ................                    24
(i)    Project  Cost   ..........................................                                                      24
(ii)    Financing   .............................................                                                        25
F.    Project  Results                    .........................                  .....................                        25
(i)    Direct  Benefits   .......................................                                                      25
(ii)    Economic  Impact   .......................................                                                       25
(iii)    Financial  Impact   ......................................                                                       26
(iv)    Studies   ...............................................                                                        26
(v)    Training   ..............................................                                                       27
G.    Status  of  Covenants   ..........................................                                                          28
H.    Use  of  Bank  Resources   ........................................                                                         29
(i)    Staff  Inputs   ..........................................                                                      29
(ii)    Missions   ..............................................                                                        30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
ATTACHMENT 1  -  Actual Project Cost 1981-1990 ...................                  31
ANNEX TABLES
1.  Cropped Area (Pre-Project)  .............................               32
2.  Cropped Area (Without Project)  .........................                33
3.  Cropped Area (With Project)  ............................                34
4.  Per Ha Financial Farm Budget (Pre- and Without Project)                  35
5.  Per Ha Financial Farm Budget (With Project)  ....           ........     36
6.  Farm Incomes - 0.75 ha Farm ............................                 37
7.  Economic Analysis ......................................                 38
8.  Project Costs ..........................................                 39
9.  Summary of Financial and Economic Prices ....            ...........     40
MAP - IBRD 24287



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1160-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Village Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (VIRP) in Sri Lanka for which Credit 1160-CE in the amount
of SDR 24.5 million was approved on June 16, 1981. The credit was closed after
four one-year extensions on December 31, 1990. A total of SDR 17.58 million was
disbursed, and SDR 6.92 million cancelled. The last disbursement was made on May
16, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission which visited Sri Lanka in November 1991 (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). The report (except Part II) was
reviewed by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III of the
South Asia Regional Office.
The PCR is based on a review of all relevant project documentation
(including Staff Appraisal Report, Memorandum of the President, Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between Bank and Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda), field visits to selected project areas, and
discussions with the Borrower's project staff and Bank staff associated with the
project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1160-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The main objective of the project was to increase agricultural
production and farmer incomes in existing village irrigation schemes by
financing: (i) rehabilitation of some 1,200 such schemes; (ii) modernization of
a further 500 schemes; (iii) strengthening the major government institutions
involved in village irrigation; (iv) initiating a systematic water management
program; and (v) establishing evaluation programs designed to assist project
implementation and preparation of further programs in the sub-sector.
Implementation Experience
2.          The project has met its implementation targets on a much smaller area
than originally expected (para 7), and this could be achieved only by
considerably extending the project period.   The total project period thus
increased to nine years, compared to five years estimated at appraisal.  The
project originally was to include 14 of Sri Lanka's 24 districts, of which four
were later dropped.  Due to civil disturbances affecting the north and east of
the country since about 1984. project activities were severely hampered, leading
to suspension of disbursements in a further seven districts by June 1986. In
compensation, the Bank agreed to expand project activities to eight less-affected
districts, where rehabilitation needs were initially ranked lower but enough
schemes meeting project criteria were identified. This brought the number of
districts to eleven.
3.          Initial delays, budget constraints and a declining value of the rupee
against the dollar and SDR affected disbursements, and by December 1985, the end
of the original implementation period, disbursement stood at only 37% of the SAR
estimate. It increased over the four-year extension period to 72% of the credit.
4.          Due mainly  to a  shortage  of  technical  staff  and  experienced
contractors, construction performance was inferior to SAR expectations. However,
the situation improved in later project years, mainly because of a substantial
training  effort  (para  5.16).    Therefore,  on balance,  the  capability  of
constructing irrigation infrastructure was considerably strengthened.
5.          A major institutional challenge was the coordination of the roles and
actions of the two main implementing agencies, the Irrigation Department (ID) and
the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS). Whereas successful implementation
largely depended on their joint action, in actual fact, DAS generally got
involved only when a scheme was due to be handed over officially from ID to DAS,



- iv -
and this process was typically delayed from six to nine months after completion
of works. The delays were caused by various factors, including land alienation,
late identification by DAS of structural deficiencies, and DAS' own program of
scheme modernization, which reduced the Service's capacity to deal with ID-
rehabilitated schemes.
6.          Several surveys and evaluation studies were carried out, involving
Government agencies and the University of Peradeniya. Because of poor baseline
data, lack of coordination and some shortcomings in methodology, the quality and
usefulness of the results have been mixed.  Little use could be made of the
results in project implementation, and the PCR re-evaluation had to rely on
mission findings and preliminary results of a separately-financed consultants'
study.
Results
7.          The  project  has  achieved  its  main  objective  of  increasing
agricultural production and farm incomes in existing village irrigation schemes
on a much smaller area than originally expected. It included rehabilitation of
1,072 schemes (89Z of target) and modernization of 627 schemes (125% of target),
covering a total command area of 45,555 ha, mostly under paddy. However, the
actually benefited area is estimated at 26,080 ha, benefiting some 46,500 farm
families. The estimate is obtained by excluding all schemes located in the seven
northern and eastern districts (para 2) due to their unknown state of completion
and operating conditions, and by further excluding (based on DAS estimates) 25%
of ID schemes and 20% of DAS schemes in which rehabilitation/modernization has
had negligible effect. In addition to infrastructure rehabilitation, the project
has improved water management practices in village irrigation and initiated the
institutionalization of farmer organizations, which has had a positive impact on
agricultural practices as well as scheme O&M. The more assured irrigation supply
has reduced cultivation risks and induced farmers to shift from traditional to
HYV paddy. Based on the preliminary findings of the performance assessment of
180 selected village irrigation schemes undertaken by local consultants, and
mission estimates, overall cropping intensities and paddy yields increased from
the pre-project to the with project situation by 8% and 19%, respectively. No
information is available for the agricultural situation without the project.
However, because of further deterioration of physical facilities in the without
project situation, it has been assumed that irrigated areas would decline by 20%
over a ten-year period but crop yields would remain constant. Total incremental
production of paddy has been estimated at about 25,000 tons per year at full
development, or about 30% below the SAR estimate of 37,800 tons, due to the
significantly lower benefited areas and lower incremental cropping intensities.
8.          At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 20%
for the rehabilitation component of the project only. The re-estimated ERR of
the project, covering rehabilitation and modernization, is 16%; the costs and
benefits of the schemes in the seven northern and eastern districts have been
excluded due to verification difficulties. Factors contributing to the lower ERR
are the longer than expected implementation and gestation periods, lower than
expected benefited areas, incremental cropping intensities and paddy prices, cost
escalation and the lag in the implementation of water management plans. Annual
net farm income is re-estimated to increase by 55%, compared to 81% estimated in



the SAR.   The lower increase is due to the reasons given in the previous
paragraph.
Sustainabilitv
9.          The outlook for sustainability is promising for about half of all
project schemes, where functioning farmer organizations (FO) have been
established and water management plans implemented (paras 5.09, 6.02), For the
rest, sustainability will depend on further efforts, mainly by DAS, in forming
FOs to carry out water management programs and to organize O&M.
10.         The strengthening of ID and DAS by the project will have a lasting
impact on their capacity to implement physical infrastructure as well as water
management programs, and related activities. However, since a large number of
staff have been transferred to newly established provincial services and both ID
and DAS are engaged in the implementation of new development projects, there
appears to be little scope for providing the services still needed in about half
of the VIRP schemes (para 9), unless the task is taken up by one of the on-going
projects.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.         The project was generally well designed and both the Bank and the
Borrower performed well throughout implementation, minimizing the negative impact
of security problems and budget constraints. However, other mainly institutional
weaknesses inhibited project implementation to a considerable extent.   Full
realization of the benefits of investment in physical rehabilitation by ID
largely depended on the conjunctive implementation of a 'software package' by
DAS, consisting of the establishment of active FOs, formulation of water
management plans and their implementation through farmer training and
demonstration.    This  balance  between  the  two  agencies'  implementation
responsibilities and capacities appears to have suffered from the fact that DAS
also implemented a works program. This clearly reduced its capacity to provide
the 'software' for both its own modernized schemes and those rehabilitated by ID.
As a result, 'software' implementation has been achieved on only about half of
the schemes rehabilitated or modernized. On the other hand, the two parallel
physical works programs together extended project impact to a larger total
command area than would have been the case if the project had been restricted to
rehabilitation only.   Implementation experience also suggests a number of
specific lessons to be learned as listed in the relevant chapters of Part I.
12.         In retrospect, a weak aspect in project design was the relationship
between FOs and DAS, which was not systematized and has led to some ambiguity in
their relationship.  This was recognized in the follow-up project, the National
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2260-CE), in which special attention has
been given to the establishment of FOs and the responsibilities of FOs for O&M.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1160-CE)
PART I: Project Review From Bank's Perspective
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name               Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (VIRP)
Credit No.         1160-CE
RVP Unit           South Asia (SA3AG)
Country            Sri Lanka
Sector             Agriculture (Irrigation)
B. BACKGROUND
2.01        Starting in 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) implemented a
series of major reforms designed to revive the economy through dismantling
controls over resource allocation; establishing realistic relative prices and
incentives; and launching an ambitious public sector investment program. The
response was encouraging, with a growth of GDP of 8% in 1978, 6% in 1979, and a
further 6% in 1980.   Nevertheless, by 1980 it had become clear that GOSL's
strategy, in particular its emphasis on major long-gestation, capital-intensive
investments, carried with it the risk of overheating the economy, as reflected
in a sharp increase in inflation and severe balance of payment problems.  In
response, GOSL reduced investment allocation across-the-board by 25% in the 1981
budget. Among further measures was the emphasis on quick-yielding investments
such as the Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (VIRP), to sustain medium-
term growth while adjusting long-term large-scale investments to the absorptive
capacity of the economy.
2.02        Since 1980, a systematic approach to village irrigation was adopted
and implemented through Rural Development Projects, Irrigation Department
Programs (IDP) and Dry Zone Farming Projects. The Bank Group participated in the
first program with two projects (Part III, A) and followed up with the VIRP on
a Government-financed pilot project implemented in 1979/80 under the IDP.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01        Obiectives. The project aimed at increasing agricultural production
and farmer incomes in existing village irrigation schemes by: (i) financing the
rehabilitation of village tanks and anicuts (diversion schemes) over a five-year
period (1981-85); (ii) strengthening the major Government institutions involved
in village irrigation; (iii) initiating a systematic water management program;
and (iv) establishing evaluation programs designed to assist project
implementation and preparation of further programs in the village irrigation
sector.



-2-
3.02        Proiect DescriRtion.   The project consisted of three distinct
components:
(a)   Civil Works Component
-     rehabilitation of about 1,200 village irrigation schemes by
the Irrigation Department (ID), comprising repairs to and
remodelling of tank bunds, sluices, spillways, anicuts and
irrigation distribution systems, including provision of
appropriate field structures;
-     modernization of working schemes by the Department of Agrarian
Services (DAS), with a view to facilitating the introduction
of water management programs; and
-     provision of survey, drawing, construction, maintenance and
quality control equipment in support of the civil works
program, together with necessary transport vehicles.
(b)   Operation and Maintenance Component
-     strengthening of DAS' capacity to service the operation and
maintenance of minor irrigation schemes through incremental
staff and provision of office, survey and construction
equipment, and transport vehicles;
-     introduction  of  systematic  water  management  programs  on
project schemes; and
-     support for on-going training programs in basic technical
skills as well as for new water management training programs
to be provided at the Maha Illuppallama Research Institute.
(c)   Project Evaluation and Investigations
-     monitoring of project impact on agricultural production by DAS
field staff and the Sri Lankan Freedom from Hunger Campaign
(FFHC), with support from the Department of Census and
Statistics (DCS) to check the yield data collected by DAS
staff;
systematic data collection and evaluation programs by the Land
and Water Use Division of the Department of Agriculture,
covering hydrology of village tanks, soils, land use and
related information; and
regular socio-economic evaluation studies of project impact by
the University of Peradeniya as a basis for introducing
modifications to project design during implementation and to
assist in further planning.



-3-
3.03        Total project costs were estimated at Rs 784 million  (US$43.6
million).   An IDA credit,  Cr.1160-CE,  of SDR 24.5 million (USS30 million
equivalent) was to finance approximately 69% of project costs, or 100% of foreign
and about 60% of local costs. The remaining funds were to be provided by GOSL.
Overall responsibility for project implementation was with the National Committee
for Village Tank Rehabilitation.    Subordinated bodies  for annual  program
formulation and approval were: the Project Steering Committee, and the District
Agricultural Committee.
3.04        ID was to be responsible for the execution of all main civil works
through its existing organization, supported by machinery, vehicles, equipment,
provided under the project. For implementation of the O&M component, the project
was to strengthen DAS substantially.
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01        The project had a clear conceptual foundation which fitted well into
GOSL's development strategy, giving emphasis to quick-yielding investments to
sustain medium-term growth.   The project was innovative in its intention to
introduce institutional mechanisms to assist farmers in scheme operation and
maintenance on the basis of water management plans.   However,  some of the
proposed changes were substantially modified during implementation, mainly due
to staff shortages (para 5.11). In the light of such and other implementation
constraints, the project's scope was adequate, although the targeted
rehabilitation works represented not more than 20% of all village irrigation
schemes qualifying for physical rehabilitation and/or water management support.
4.02        Two FAO/CP missions (identification and preparation) prepared the
project on behalf of GOSL, followed by Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
In general, the project was well prepared. However, in designing the project's
evaluation and investigations component, the generation of adequate baseline data
should have been addressed and linkages between parties involved better defined
(para 5.12).
4.03        With  responsibilities  for  irrigation  infrastructure  and  its
management divided between ID and DAS, the success of the project largely
depended on efficient coordination, as well as an adequate match between the two
agencies' implementation capacity. Although ample attention was paid to these
aspects in the appraisal report, the fact that DAS also was assigned the task of
physical modernization of schemes unintentionally introduced a certain imbalance
into the implementation process. Thus, while in project design it was strictly
linked to the rehabilitation program, the modernization activity developed its
own momentum, creating a parallel physical infrastructure improvement capability.
Since this absorbed much of DAS' capacity originally earmarked for scheme water
management, farmer organizations (FO) and O&M, the project fell short of its
targets for these activities.



-4-
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01        General.  The project has met its implementation targets on a much
smaller area than originally expected, and this could be achieved only through
four one-year extensions. The total project period was thus nine years, compared
to five years estimated at appraisal. The project originally was to include 14
of Sri Lanka's 24 districts. Four of these were later dropped, while eight nev
districts were added, raising the total to 18.
5.02        Due to civil disturbances affecting the north and east of the country
since 1984, project activities were severely hampered, leading to suspension of
disbursements in seven districts as of June 1986. This reduced the number of
districts covered to eleven. By project closure, some 260 schemes had been taken
up by ID and 117 by DAS in the seven districts, but due to the security situation
it has not been possible to verify how many of these schemes have actually been
completed.   An ID report of September 1988 indicates that headworks were
rehabilitated in most ID schemes while canal systems were in various stages of
construction or not started at all.   By project closure, 260 schemes were
reported as completed.   However, since there have been few opportunities to
resume works and no disbursements were made during 1989 and 1990 (see Part III,
G), it must be assumed that 'completion' refers only to headworks and not to both
headworks and canal system. Furthermore, due to the civil disturbances, handing
over of completed schemes and introduction of water management programs in the
seven districts were severely hampered.
5.03        The forced geographical shift considerably reduced the project's
intended emphasis on the dry zone (vis-a-vis intermediate and wet zones) and on
tank schemes (vis-&-vis anicuts).   Instead of 75% (SAR), only 50% of all
rehabilitated schemes were located in the dry zone, and the share of anicuts
increased from 10% to 44%. However, the latter appears to have had a positive
impact on the project since cost/benefit ratios for anicut schemes, because of
lower investment costs, generally seem to exceed those for comparable tank
schemes.
5.04        Initial delays, budget constraints and a declining value of the rupee
against the dollar and SDR affected disbursements, and by December 1985, the end
of the original implementation period, disbursement stood at only 37% of the SAR
estimate. It increased over the four-year extension to 72% of the Credit - SDR
17.58 million or US$21.6 million; the balance of SDR 6.92 million (US$8.4
million) was cancelled.   Total project costs are now estimated at Rs 923.5
million (US$31.5 million), against an SAR estimate of Rs 784.3 million (US$43.6
million).  Investment per hectare of command area was U$870 for rehabilitated
schemes and US$300 for modernized schemes.
5.05        Rehabilitation/Modernization of Schemes.  Selection of schemes was
to follow a set of criteria established at appraisal, which proved to be a useful
guideline. A few cases of disregard of established (or modified) criteria were
reported in some districts, notably Monaragala, where a number of new schemes
were developed. Some cases of unauthorized increase of spillway crest levels for
increased storage, at the expense of downstream users, were also noted. The cost



ceilings for scheme rehabilitation/modernization had to be raised several times
due to inflation.
5.06        Construction quality control was considerably strengthened by the
project.   Yet a number of schemes were left with defective infrastructure,
causing leakage, instability or affecting operation.   One of the causes was
shortage of staff for construction supervision, another was inexperienced local
contractors. Design deficiencies have also been reported. Shortage of essential
construction materials was experienced in 1988-89 in conjunction with civil
unrest.
5.07        The risk to project implementation of budget constraints had been
accepted at appraisal since leaner budgets could readily be accommodated by
adjusting the number of schemes taken up each year, without affecting overall
project feasibility.
5.08        While, in general, construction equipment provided by the project was
adequately utilized, there has been considerable use outside VIRP and some damage
was caused through civil disturbances.
5.09        An institutional shortcoming with considerable effect on project
implementation was the poor integration of ID and DAS activities. ID's and DAS'
simultaneous presence and actions were required in schemes selected for
rehabilitation. However, DAS generally got involved only when a scheme was due
for handing over by ID. The hand-over process itself was time-consuming because
it often depended on repairs or supplementary works requiring ID's renewed
involvement, or other factors, such as land alienation.   As a consequence,
ratification of scheme hand-over lagged behind in about 40% of completed schemes
throughout the project. As the preparation of water management plans generally
was initiated only after ratification of hand-over, there was a corresponding
delay in the preparation and implementation of such plans, which by project
closure covered only about 50% of all schemes rehabilitated.
5.10        To accelerate the hand-over, IDA had agreed to an arrangement whereby
DAS could spend an additional allocation of up to Rs 50,000 per scheme for post-
rehabilitation repairs and/or supplementary works required to enable it to
introduce appropriate water management plans. However, this curative measure was
introduced too late to be effective.
5.11        The SAR provided for the establishment of a new cadre of 'tank
supervisors' (TS). These were initially to be associated with the Agricultural
Planning Teams (APT) in the water management planning stage and thereafter to
take main responsibility in implementing the plan and overseeing O&M in a cluster
of rehabilitated/modernized schemes. Apparently, the difficulty of mobilizing
the resources for establishing such a cadre weighed more heavily than the
unproven benefits to be derived from it.   Thus the cadre was not created;
instead, its role was assigned in part to the APTs, and in part was vested in the
vel vidanes (traditional scheme water masters).
5.12        Proiect  Evaluation and  Investigations.    The  SAR provided  for
monitoring of project impact on agricultural production by means of an initial



- 6 -
baseline survey followed by annual surveys of 200 to 250 schemes.   Actual
achievements were far below expectations in quality, quantity and documentation.
A baseline survey was not undertaken, and there also was no linkage between the
annual surveys and the socio-economic survey (para 5.14).
5.13        The Physical Resources Evaluation Study, which was to provide much
needed scheme selection and design criteria, was completed very late and had
limited applicability. While Bank supervision missions gave a positive response
to the study, ID was not impressed and even disputed certain results.  Staff
suspected that tank water balances were based on faulty hydrometry.   The
approaches taken and conclusions drawn also appeared too academic for practical
application.
5.14        Socio-Economic Evaluation.   The project provided support to the
Department of Agricultural Economics and Extension, Faculty of Agriculture, of
the University of Peradeniya, to carry out annual socio-economic surveys in order
to evaluate the project's impact on agricultural production and farmer incomes.
Site surveys were conducted and three analytical reports were produced.   The
reports provided some useful description of the pre- and post-project situation
of the village irrigation schemes, including demographic characteristics, land
use and farming systems, production cost of paddy, water management and
agricultural   support   services,   and   cost/benefit   ratios   of   the
rehabilitated/modernized schemes. The studies showed low benefit/cost ratios in
most of the schemes, which was not consistent with the substantial increase of
paddy sales and the decline in water shortage after rehabilitation/modernization,
also reported in the studies. Lack of reliable production data was the major
weakness.        Moreover,    production    levels    'before'    and    'after'
rehabilitation/modernization, used in the analysis instead of 'with' and
'without', were inappropriate.
5.15        Because of the lack of reliable production data required for an
assessment of the project's economic impact, especially with regard to possible
future Bank supported activities, GOSL and the Bank agreed on an additional study
to be undertaken by local consultants.   Intended to be financed under VIRP,
because of delays the study was financed under the new National Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2260-CE).   It was started in September 1991 and
completed by end February 1992. It covers a more general survey of 180 and a
specific survey of 30 VIRP schemes in different agro-climatic zones.  Preliminary
findings of the study have been incorporated into this PCR's economic re-
evaluation of the project.
5.16        Training.  The project accomplished an impressive training program
in quantity as well as quality. Some indicative figures are given in Part III,
F (v). A comparison with appraisal estimates is not possible since the SAR did
not quantify training requirements.
5.17        Technical Assistance. The project's technical advisor assumed duties
in October 1981. His initial assignment was for two years but was extended by
six months up to the end of April 1984.   His performance has been rated as
excellent.



F. PROJECT RESULTS
6.01        The  project  hAs  achieved  its  main  objectives  of  increasing
agricultural production and farm incomes in existing village irrigation schemes,
although over a much smaller area than targeted. Indications supporting this are
that irrigation intensities and crop yields have increased in the majority of
schemes.
6.02        The project included 1,072 rehabilitation and 627 modernization
schemes covering a total command area of 45,555 ha, mostly under irrigated paddy,
but could not complete all (see below). On completed schemes, physical impact
of rehabilitation/modernization has been to: (a) extend useful life of existing
tank bunds and headvork structures; (b) reduce seepage through bunds, structures
and unlined canals; and (c) facilitate rotational water supply and general
increase in water use efficiency. In addition to physical works, the project has
been instrumental in improving the water management standards in village
irrigation systems.  It also has initiated the institutionalization of farmer
organizations (FOs), which has had a positive impact on agricultural, as well as
O&M operations. By project closure, a total of 880 or 52% of all schemes had
FOs, of which the majority are active. The more assured irrigation water supply
has reduced cultivation risks and induced farmers to shift to HYV and to use more
inputs.
6.03        Proiect Impact.  Although the project has rehabilitated 1,072 and
modernized 627 schemes with a total command area of 45,555 ha, benefited areas
have been reduced to 26,080 ha. This excludes all schemes located in the seven
districts in the northern and eastern regions (about 25% of total), because of
their unknown condition and degree of completion, and (based on DAS estimates)
about 20% of DAS' and 25% of ID's schemes where rehabilitation and modernization
had negligible effect, due to various deficiencies (see Section 5). Of the total
benefited areas, some 17,610 ha are ID schemes and 8,470 ha DAS schemes.
According to the impact evaluation recently undertaken by local consultants (para
5.15) for 180 selected project schemes (121 rehabilitated and 59 modernized),
irrigation intensities increased from an average of 100% before project
intervention (1984/85) to 110% after completion (1990/91).   Correspondingly,
overall cropping intensity increased from 130% in the pre-project to 138% in the
with project situation (Annex 1, Tables 1-3), compared to the SAR estimates of
81% and 116% respectively.   Cropping intensities in the with project (VP)
situation range from about 180% in the wet zone, to 125% in the intermediate zone
and 115% in the dry zone. Overall, paddy yields increased by 19% from the pre-
project (PP) to the WP situation, compared to an increase of 25% estimated at
appraisal. Irrigated paddy yields increased from 2.6 t/ha in the PP to 3.1 t/ha
in the WP situation in the maha season, and from 2.3 t/ha in the PP to 2.8 t/ha
in the WP situation in the yala season (Annex 1, Tables 4-5). Because of lack
of sufficient data, no distinction was made between agro-climatic zones or
between tank and anicut schemes. It should be noted that a series of drought
years have distorted project impact, particularly in the dry zone.1'
The physical resources study (para 5. 13) revealed that rainfall during the decade of the eighties was below
the historical average in eight years, with only 1984 and 1987 above average.



- 8 -
6.04        No data are available for the agricultural situation without the
project  (WOP).    However,  in practice,  further  deterioration  of physical
facilities can be assumed, which would have reduce8 the irrigated area. Based
on DAS' experience, and the PCR mission's field observations and interviews with
farmers, it has been assumed that yields of paddy in the WOP situation would
remain constant at PP levels, while overall irrigated area in both maha and yala
seasons would decline by 20% each at a constant rate over ten years.  Thus,
cropping intensity has been assumed to decline from 130% in the PP to 124% in the
WOP situation.  The SAR had assumed the same cropping intensities in the PP and
the WOP situation, but paddy yields were expected to increase by 14% due to the
progressive adoption of improved cultural practices.   Based on the above
benefitted areas, cropping intensities and yields, total incremental paddy
production has been estimated to be about 25,000 tons per year at full
development, or about one-third less than the SAR estimate of 37,800 tons. The
lower paddy production is due mainly to the significantly lower benefited areas
and lower incremental cropping intensity. Moreover, the PCR assumes that over
one-third of the area of rainfed paddy remains in the WP situation, whereas the
SAR assumed that this area would be fully irrigated.
6.05        The increase in irrigation intensities and crop yields can be
interpreted as a restoration of the intensities/yields which prevailed in the
past, when the schemes were still functioning well.   However, at that time
(perhaps 15 years before project preparation), the schemes may have had fully
operational headworks but generally lacked distribution systems, and farmers had
no advanced water management know-how. Therefore, the post-project irrigation
intensities and yields are the combined result of restoration efforts and
improved irrigation practices.
6.06        Economic Rate of Return.  The ERR of the project is re-estimated at
16% (Annex 1, Table 7) compared to 20% estimated at appraisal. The lower ERR is
due to the significantly reduced benefited area, delayed benefits, lower
incremental cropping intensities, project cost overrun (in Rupees), and paddy
prices that are much lower than originally projected (see note in Annex 1, Table
9). The analysis was carried out in constant 1991 prices. As in the SAR, a
project life of 25 years has been assumed. VP irrigated area is estimated to be
achieved over five years, with a corresponding build-up of yields; assumptions
regarding the WOP situation are described in para 6.04. Contrary to the SAR,
incremental crop production benefits from both rehabilitation and modernization
have been taken into account. The farmgate price for paddy is based on actual
world market prices through 1990 and projected prices for 1995, 2000, and 2005,
while prices for non-traded goods are based on domestic financial prices. The
market wage for labor as well as other domestic prices and price components have
been translated into border prices by applying conversion factors of 0.9 (labor)
and 0.85 (all other) respectively (Annex 1, Table 9). Actual project investment
costs were re-stated in 1991 prices by using the wholesale price index and
MUV.1/ About 25% and 10% of ID and DAS civil works costs were incurred in the
northern and eastern regions and have therefore been excluded (Annex 1, Table 8).
Unit value index of manufactured exports from selected industrialized countries to developing countries
expressed in US dollars.



- 9 -
Annual operation and maintenance costs of ID and DAS schemes have been estimated
at Rs 600 per ha, including structure maintenance, DAS' operating costs and
farmers' labor.
6.07        Farm Incomes,  Because of data limitations, only one farm of 0.75 ha
has been analyzed. For the same reason, no distinction between agro-climatic
zones or tank and anicut schemes could be made. Moreover, income from other farm
and off-farm activities - included in the SAR - was excluded from the analysis.
Resulting annual net farm incomes at full development are Rs 6,580 WOP and Rs
10,185 WP (Annex 1, Table 6). This means an increase of 55%, compared to 81%
estimated at appraisal. The lower incremental net farm incomes are due to the
reasons given in para 6.04.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01        The outlook for sustainability of the project is promising for about
half of all schemes, where functioning farmer organizations (FOs) have been
established and water management plans implemented.   For the remaining half,
sustainability will depend on further efforts, mainly by DAS, in forming FOs to
carry out water management programs and to organize O&M.
7.02        Although Sri Lankan village irrigation schemes by tradition have some
form of beneficiary association, evidently few of these groups have had the
strength to keep schemes in adequate operating condition. It thus was one of. the
project's aims to provide an organizational structure for these groups of
beneficiaries and to strengthen their capability to operate and maintain their
schemes.    This  endeavor was weakened by a decline  in farmers'  sense of
responsibility for their schemes in cases where they were not fully participating
in the planning, design and implementation of rehabilitation works.   In such
schemes, it was found that farmers engaged in maintenance only on that portion
of the system that had a direct effect on their individual field(s).
7.03        In DAS' judgement, supported by findings of the survey of scheme
performance (para 5.15), further public support to achieve FO self-reliance is
indispensable. To provide such support, a sufficient number of field staff is
required over at least another two years. Since DAS, through recent government
reforms, lost a large number of staff to the provincial administration, where
this staff has become mainly absorbed in construction activities, there appears
to be little scope for a further O&M strengthening program with existing staff.
The solution proposed by DAS is to recruit and train a new cadre of
"Institutional Organizers" to assist FOs in setting up O&M funds, organizing
deferred repair and maintenance works, and further strengthening of water
management. The estimated requirements are about 200 field staff for two years
and investments of about Rs 50,000 per scheme, of which farmers would contribute
Rs 15,000 in labor or cash. Without such follow-up programs, sustainability of
project achievements appears to be at risk in about half of the schemes
rehabilitated or modernized.
7.04        A positive impact on sustainability can be expected from legalization
of FOs following the ratification of the Agricultural Services Act in late 1990.



- 10 -
H.  BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01        The Bank's performance during the project period was satisfactory.
A total of 14 supervision missions were fielded during the nine-year
implementation period, with a considerable degree of staff continuity.   The
technical backstopping was excellent and so was the response to identified
shortcomings of the SAR. Also, the Bank correctly suspended disbursements for
project activities in the districts of Ampari, Batticaloa, Jaffna, Mullativa,
Trincomalee, Mannar and Vavuniya following the intensification of civil
disturbances in 1985/86 which precluded effective supervision. In compensation,
the Bank agreed to expand project activities to eight other districts, where
rehabilitation needs were initially ranked lower but enough schemes were
identified that met project criteria for rehabilitation/modernization.
8.02        The project would have benefited if more attention had been devoted
by supervision missions (SM) to the following:
(a)   Early SMs should have assured the carrying out of baseline surveys
for future scheme performance evaluations.
(b)   It appears that SMs could have identified and remedied the main
cause of delays in handing over rehabilitated schemes from ID to
DAS, which was DAS' absorption in its own construction program.
Thus, a proviso could have been introduced by which no new schemes
were to be taken up for modernization before the backlog of ID
schemes had been taken over by DAS and corresponding water
management plans prepared.
8.03        The main lessons that may be relevant to the Bank are:
(a)   The process of formation and/or strengthening of FOs to ensure
sustained O&M of rehabilitated schemes is not yet completed.
Additional manpower and financial resources will be required if this
goal  is  to  be  achieved.    Since  the  responsible  government
institutions (DAS and provincial councils) are intensely involved in
the implementation of new projects, including the Bank-financed
NIRP, there is little scope for necessary follow-up actions, unless
they are integrated into and financed by one of the on-going
projects, preferably NIRP.
(b)   A program for evaluation of project impact and performance must
include specific provisions for appropriate baseline surveys and,
when more than one agency is involved, provide for adequate
coordination.   The agencies concerned must be convinced of the
critical importance of such evaluations; if not, entrusting such
studies to independent consultants would appear to be a better
choice.



- 11 -
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01        Despite difficult implementation conditions (civil disturbances,
disrupted communications, budget constraints, administrative changes), the
Borrower performed well throughout the implementation period. Although there
were four changes in the post of Project Director, project implementation was not
disrupted thanks to staff continuity at senior staff level in the participating
agencies. However, coordination between ID and DAS at field level could have
been improved, especially at the survey and design stage of schemes to be
rehabilitated.   Preparation of a design manual would have been helpful in
upgrading standards of design.
9.02        Through a sizeable and diversified training program (para 5.16), the
Borrover was able to raise and sustain the implementation capacity of the
agencies involved, in particular DAS, and to meet project objectives in farmer
training. Training opportunities also stimulated staff continuity.
9.03        The Borrower complied with all covenants (Part III, A).  However,
serious delays occurred in the submission of audit reports for 1982 and 1983,
which were submitted only in June and October 1986, due to shortage of
experienced accountants in the district offices of ID and DAS. The situation
greatly improved from 1986 onwards but, because of the continuing shortage of
experienced accountants, reports continued to be late by 6-9 months. Monthly and
quarterly reporting of progress in civil works implementation was timely and
satisfactory.
9.04        Lessons to be learned, which may also apply to the Bank are:
(a)   In village irrigation scheme rehabilitation, the formation of farmer
organizations should come before physical rehabilitation. This has
the obvious advantage of farmers being sufficiently involved in the
planning and design phase to generate a feeling of responsibility
for the scheme's performance and maintenance in the post-project
phase but also to secure commitments regarding important matters
such as access and right-of-way.
(b)   Cooperation of farmers can be enhanced substantially by providing
them the opportunity to participate in rehabilitation activities as
paid laborers.
(c)   Extreme land fragmentation in many existing tank command areas has
been identified as a major obstacle to raising these schemes'
productivity and the project's aim to do this. It would thus be of
comparatively great importance if land consolidation could be
combined with scheme rehabilitation in such areas. Success of this
approach has been demonstrated by DAS on a pilot scale.
(d)   Land tenure appears to be a factor to be considered in scheme
selection, as the response to rehabilitation has been greater on
farmer-owned land.



- 12 -
(e)   Implementation experience confirms that not only the quality of
physical works but also the attention paid by project staff,
including occasional visits by senior staff, is essential for the
success of the rehabilitation effort.  To minimize the impact of
staff shortages on project implementation, available staff should be
provided with adequate mobility.
(f)   Monitoring  should  be  used  as  a  management  tool  to  reduce
implementation problems and not as an end in itself or because it
had been stipulated in the appraisal report.
(g)   In future village irrigation rehabilitation,  the initial scheme
preparation report should include a comprehensive survey of
agricultural production performance and socio-economic data on the
potential beneficiaries, to serve as base line data for future
evaluation. This may not only replace a socio-economic study but
may also be more reliable, since it would involve only those schemes
actually selected for rehabilitation.
J. PROJECT REIATIONSHIP
10.01       The Bank/Borrower relationship was  satisfactory throughout the
project period. This was particularly important in successfully manoeuvering the
project through times of budget constraints and civil unrest and in extending the
implementation period by four years in order to achieve important project
targets.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES AND PROCUREMENT
11.01       Consulting  services  were  not  foreseen  at  appraisal,  as  the
implementing agencies, ID and DAS, were considered self-reliant, although in need
of strengthened staffing.  This strengthening was achieved through a massive
training program (para 5.16).   Only in the last project year, the need for
consultancy input was identified for undertaking an impartial and competent
assessment of project impact. However, the relevant contract was arranged under
NIRP (para 5.15). Preliminary findings of the study have been incorporated in
this PCR.
11.02       Physical rehabilitation had to rely heavily on local contractors.
These were often inexperienced, which, together with shortage of supervising
staff, resulted in poor construction quality. However, standards improved in the
last three to four project years, due to better trained staff and better enforced
regulations.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01       The SAR provided a satisfactory framework for the Bank and the
Borrower. However, unforeseen security problems and more severe than expected
budget constraints reduced the SAR's usefulness as a yardstick for physical and
financial performance. The provisions of the development credit agreement were
generally observed (Part III, G).



- 13 -
12.02       Despite ample  SAR provisions,  the project  did not  generate a
satisfactory data base from which to reliably evaluate its economic performance.
However, the PCR mission could make use of preliminary findings of an on-going
evaluation study carried out by consultants (para 5.15).



- 14 -
PART II: Proiect Review from Borrower's Persgective
1. Project Design
The project has been generally well designed.   However,  some of the
aspects (as described below) need to be improved for similar projects
planned for future implementation.
1.1   Selection Criteria
(a)   The command area under a scheme should not be less than 20 acres.
This criteria prevented many promising schemes being taken up under
the project. The lower limit should have been 10 acres and this has
been adopted for the ongoing National Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (NIRP).
(b)   As per Annex 4, page 70 of the SAR, the priority for selection of
schemes was:
(i)   Tank systems that are out of use because of recent damage to
bund, spillway or sluice and where, with a relatively small
investment, total command area could be brought back into
irrigated production should receive attention first.
(ii) Equal priority as for schemes under (i) above for working
projects where major damage within the next few years is
possible.
(iii) Least priority for long abandoned schemes that would require
almost complete reconstruction, which should be considered at
a later stage.
In para b(i), the term "recent" being not defined (say within a year
or so), many schemes that fell into category b(iii) received
priority during implementation.   It would have been better if
schemes falling under category b(ii) were given top priority and the
criteria b(i) was modified to state "tanks which have been damaged
during the previous year and whose beneficiaries are still resident
close to the command area. ......... "
In fact the criteria for the ongoing NIRP confines rehabilitation to
existing operational schemes.
(c)   The incremental area brought under direct Maha irrigation should be
at least ten times privately irrigated lands submerged or three
times other cultivated lands submerged. Based on this criteria, the
capacities of many working tanks had been increased to take up
additional irrigable area.   This necessitated  land acquisition
proceedings which invariably dragged on for several years causing
implementation delays. In some instances, legal procedures had to



- 15 -
be resorted to in order to resolve the problems. Such situations
could have been avoided by excluding this condition from the
selection criteria.   The ongoing NIRP does not have a similar
condition for the selection criteria.
(d)   The cost criteria for selection of schemes had two upper limits for
cost per acre of land benefitted, i.e. one rate for the existing
area and another rate for the new area brought under irrigation.
This resulted in the existing area being under-reported in many
instances to permit a higher expen4iture for rehabilitation. This
was another condition that led to taking up restoration of abandoned
tanks.    There  should  have  been  only  one  pro-rata  cost  for
rehabilitation as in the ongoing NIRP.
1.2   Farmer Participation
Sufficient emphasis has not been given at the time of project design to
the participation of farmers in investigation, planning and implementation
of the project.    Though an  initial meeting at the commencement  of
investigations and a ratification meeting prior to commencement of
construction had been envisaged to arrange for farmers' participation in
the project, these meetings have not been held in many instances. Strong
emphasis should have been given at the time of project design to establish
a  strong  farmer  organisation  before  a  scheme  is  selected  for
rehabilitation.
1.3   Monitoring and Evaluation
At the time of project appraisal, the Land and Water Use Division of the
Department of Agriculture was selected to undertake a physical resources
evaluation study directed at improving the data base on the hydrology and
irrigation  potential  of  village  tanks.    Likewise,  the  faculty  of
Agriculture of the University of Peradeniya was selected to undertake a
socio-economic survey in order to evaluate the project's impact on
agricultural  production,  farm  incomes  and  employment.    The  studies
conducted by both organisations did not result in achieving the expected
objectives. A better approach would have been to invite proposals from
several organisations, evaluate and select rather than pre-selecting
particular organisations.
2.  Proiect Implementation
As mentioned in para 5.01 of Part I, the project has met its
implementation targets.   The schemes taken up under the project have
generally been improved to a satisfactory standard.   However, certain
shortcomings (dealt with in following paragraphs) have been observed in
the implementation process.



- 16 -
2.1   Planning and Design
2.1.1 Selection Criteria
One of the serious shortcomings observed in the implementation had been
the violation of agreed criteria by developing new schemes and restoring
abandoned tanks. The study by the Consultants revealed violation in 20%
of the sample schemes studied.   The criteria that were violated have
already been discussed in para 1.  Moneragala was one of the districts
where a large number of new schemes have been developed. In almost all of
these schemes, land alienation took a very long time (sometimes several
years) and DAS refused to take over such schemes until farmers were in
place to implement the water management programmes. As a result many of
these schemes remained unattended for a long period and there were
instances where some schemes reached a state of needing major
rectification again to operate them.
2.1.2 Farmer Participation
As already mentioned in para 1.2, farmer participation had been poor in
project planning and implementation.   The Consultants' study indicated
that the initial meetings envisaged in the SAR have not been held in about
30% of the sample schemes studied.   The figure for final ratification
meeting is more alarming with meetings not held in 50% of the sample.
This led to criticism of VIRP at various forums. There were few instances
where the schemes could not be sustained as farmers were not interested in
cultivation. Even in the instances where consultation had taken place,
representation had been poor with only few leaders (not elected but
powerful personalities amongst farmer community) being present. Naturally
in such instances the proposals have been framed to suit the needs of the
leaders and not the community. One of the important lessons learnt from
the VIRP is: "The establishment of a stable farmer organisation is a
prerequisite for the successful rehabilitation, and management of minor
irrigation schemes".  This has been incorporated as a condition in the
selection criteria for the ongoing NIRP.
2.1.3 Design Inadeguacies
This had been noticed in 7% of the sample schemes studied by the
Consultants.  Common faults were substandard investigations, inaccurate
hydrological studies and inadequate drainage facilities.
(a)   Substandard  Investigations:      Incorrect  surveys  (particularly
levelling) were observed in some instances.  This resulted mainly
due to lack of supervision and checking by senior staff. However,
the work load of senior staff did not permit them to give sufficient
attention to supervising surveys.
As mentioned already, many new schemes have been developed under
VIRP.   Several of these were reservoir schemes necessitating the
construction of earthen embankments. In some instances, embankments



- 17 -
exceeding 50 feet in height had been constructed.   Subsurface
investigations have not been done for these schemes and in some
instances resulted in failure due to inadequate foundation cut-off
etc.  In some instances, the capacities of existing schemes have
been increased by raising the level of embankments but the condition
of existing embankment had not been investigated in these cases. As
a result some of these schemes breached after impounding due to the
inability of the existing embankment to cater for higher hydraulic
forces. Another shortcoming was the insufficient attention paid to
surveying the construction materials necessary for rehabilitation.
(b)   Hydrological Studies:   There had been no historical records of
inflows  and  issues  to  minor  schemes  in  Sri  Lanka.    Hence
hydrological analysis to determine water availability was based on
the iso-yield curves prepared by the department. These iso-yield
curves had been prepared based on stream gaugings in major rivers
and did not accurately reflect the inflow from small catchments.
There were instances where additional areas for irrigation had been
proposed based on erroneous inflows and schemes promoted.   After
rehabilitation the tanks have not filled up to the required levels.
However, a little further study is needed in this regard as there
had been a general decline in seasonal rainfall through the VIRP
implementation period.
The flood studies had been mainly based on the rational formula.
The use of this formula for catchments exceeding one or two sq.miles
gives  erroneous results.   Some of the completed VIRP  schemes
suffered flood damage due to inadequate spillway capacity.
Another important lesson learnt from VIRP is that there is an urgent
need to conduct research into small catchment hydrology in Sri
Lanka.   This, hopefully, could be accomplished by the proposed
Research Management Unit (RMU) to be set up in the Irrigation
Department under the ongoing NIRP.
(c)   Drainage Facilities:  Drainage aspects have not been considered at
design stage in most of the schemes.  There were instances where
proper outlet channels have not been provided for spillways.
2.1.4 Construction AsRects
Construction defects have been observed in 10% of the sample schemes
studied by the Consultant. Most of the observed defects were due to poor
quality earthwork.   A common defect detected was in the excavation of
existing bunds to provide for new sluices.   The side-slopes of the
excavated trenches had been almost vertical resulting in poor bonding of
backfill with the existing bund. As a result there were several instances
of completed tanks breaching at the sluice section. Other defects noted
were the use of substandard materials such as timber and aggregates for
concrete. These problems are expected to be minimised in the ongoing NIRP
by having training programmes for supervising staff and also by ensuring
regular supervision by senior staff.



- 18 -
2.1.5 Poor Coordination between Irrigation Department (ID)
and Department of Agrarian Services (DAS)
This was noticeable particularly in the early years of the project and the
situation improved later on.   In the ongoing NIRP it is envisaged to
overcome this shortcoming by:
(a) involving DAS fully in scheme identification as well as
investigations; and
(b) institutional development programmes commencing from
scheme identification time and being a continuous
process during the implementation.
2.1.6 Appointment of "Tank Supervisors"
As outlined in para 5.11 of Part I, the cadre of "tank supervisors" were
not created. The duties were assigned to APT and the 'Vel Vidane' (Leader
of scheme).
Vel Vidane is a traditional leader from the village, chosen by the
farmers.    As he belongs  to  the  same  community,  his  authority and
controlling powers are rather limited.   Many of them lack creative
thinking and initiative for changes in traditional water use practices.
Further, no incentives for them were forthcoming from the farmers
benefitted by VIRP. (In early days a remuneration had been paid in kind
by the farmers after harvesting but this practice has gradually eroded.)
Therefore, the attitude of Vel Vidanes towards water management activities
had dwindled in recent times.
To overcome this situation in the ongoing NIRP, farmer organisations
(PO's)  would  be  formed  at  pre-construction  stage.    Institutional
Organisers (IO's) are also to be appointed early to strengthen FO's.
Training programmes would be carried out for farmers and it is envisaged
to train one farmer as a water master.
3. Proiect Evaluation
As mentioned in para 1.3, both evaluation studies (Physical and Socio-
Economic) did not reach the desired levels.
4. Training
The training programme conducted under the project really gathered
momentum in the latter half of the project. The training conducted was
useful especially to minimise the implementation shortcomings observed in
the first half of the project.
5. Technical Assistance
It is accepted that the performance of the project's technical advisor to
the Department of Agrarian Services was good.



- 19 -
6. Project Results
The project was one of the most successful projects in comparison to minor
irrigation development projects launched in the past.
7. Proiect Impact
As stated in para 6.05 of Part I, the project's main impact had been in
the restoration of the intensities/yields which prevailed in the past.
According to Consultant's study the actual cultivated area has increased
as a result of the project by over 10% in 22% of the sample schemes in
Maha, and only in 16% of the schemes in Yala.
The  level  of  convenience  in  obtaining  irrigation  water  after
rehabilitation is another good measure of the physical performance.
During the Consultant's study, 34% of a sample of 229 farmers were of the
opinion that "level of convenience was good" and another 34% were of the
opinion that it was "somewhat good", for Maha cultivation of paddy. For
Yala cultivation of paddy, the results were not so good, with 15% "good"
and another 20% "somewhat good".
8. Project Sustainabilitv
8.1   ODeration
8.1.1   At  the  commencement  of  the  VIRP  an  elaborate  water
management programme was envisaged.   However,  the DAS was initially
lacking in technical staff sufficiently exposed to modern water management
techniques, and hence the APT did not possess the depth of technical
ability to manage an ambitious programme.   This explains the initial
delays in implementing proper water management practices.
8.1.2   The farmers  themselves were used to traditional water
management practices such as "rotations" and commencing irrigation from
the tail end and working up to the head. The water management practices
introduced by the project were mainly concentrated on improving the
procedures the farmers were used to already. However, what was important
was to provide the "scientific tools" to measure and provide only the
requirements for optimum yields, making best use of rainfall and reducing
to a minimum the waste of water by not only efficient distribution, but
also proper water management within the field.  The provision of these
proper tools has fallen short and transfer of the know-how has not taken
place to uplift the traditional water management to modern level of water
management.
8.1.3   In the pre-1960's, the Vel Vidane system functioned very
well. However, the social environment had considerably changed since then
and after a period of state intervention, to create a self-reliant farmer
community needs time and direction to the correct path. The catalyst to
direct the farmers was lacking in the project, and the lesson learnt is
the necessity to employ Institutional Organisers in similar projects to be
implemented in the future.



- 20 -
8.1.4  It was mentioned in para 4 that the project had a successful
training programme.   Hovever, this was mainly staff biased and the
training of the farmers and farmer representatives has not been adequate.
8.2   Maintenance
As mentioned in para 7.01 of Part I, the maintenance in about 50X of the
schemes vas below the expected standards.    This was mainly due to the
lack of ownership feeling amongst the farmer community.   The farmer
community of yesteryear had a strong feeling of ownership of the village
irrigation schemes.   As a result the village scheme and the farmer
community were a self-sustaining entity.   Hence the thought that the
"farmer community are the owners of the irrigation system" should be
imbibed by the farmers.   The project did not  convey this message
effectively as there was insufficient farmer participation in the
planning, design and construction.
9. Bank Performance
The performance of the Bank during the project cycle could be classed as
excellent. There was a close rapport between the supervision missions and
GOSL staff. Though all the officers of the supervision missions performed
their functions excellently, GOSL would be failing in their duty if the
excellent cooperation extended to project staff by the mission leader
during the last 5 years of project implementation was not mentioned.
The only instance where the supervision mission and GOSL staff could not
agree was on the quality of "Physical Resources Evaluation Study".
Perhaps, the Bank could have sent a Hydrologist in a supervision mission
to study the shortcomings pointed out by the Irrigation Department.
10. Borrower Performance
The changes in the position of Project Director occurred mainly due to
retirements and promotions. However, the implementation of the project
was not adversely affected due to these changes. It is agreed that the
coordination between ID and DAS at field level could have been better,
especially at survey and design stage. The preparation of a design manual
also vould have been useful.
The para 9.04 of Part I mentions the lessons to be learned. All these
lessons have been picked up in formulating the ongoing NIRP.
11. Comments on Part III
The data presented are accurate and in agreement with the records kept by
ID and DAS.



- 21 -
PART III: Statistical Information
A. RELATED IDA CREDITS
Cndit/                                 Purpose                  Approval      Status             Comments
Tith                                                              Date          /
National Irrigation     Rehabilitation of minor, medium and     06/06/91    On-going   This project can be considered
Rehabilitation Project    large irrigation projects to stabilize and         (06/98)    a follow-up project to VIRP as
(Cr. 2260-CE)           increase agricultural production and                            far as minor schemes are
incomes and raise standards of living,                          concerned.
Kurunepla RD            To raise productivity, employment,        1979      Completed   Included irrigation rehabilita-
(Cr. 891-CE)            incomes and living standards of the rural            (12/85)    lion; no major,problems were
population through an integrated package                        encountered.Wf
of investments and institutional
improvements.
Tank Irrigation         To improve irrigation supply, reduce      1976      Completed   No major problems were
Modernization Project    seepage losses, provide inputs, strengthen          (06/83)    encountered.!'
(Cr. 666-CE)            agricultural extension and water
management in five major tank schemes
in the dry zone.
Third RDP               To increase productivity, employment,   05/12/83    Cancelled   Since 1984, the project became
(Cr. 1363-CE)           income and living standards in the                              increasingly affected by the
districts of Mannar and Vavuniya.                               ethnic conflict. The credit was
cancelled in March 1986.
Actual or expected closing date in parentheses.
/ Howvever, the PPAR noted that despite achievement of physical targets efforts to improve water management of irrigation
schemes have been largely ineffectual.
c/ Similar problems as indicated in footnote ~J were found.



- 22 -
B. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                                      Date Planned                 Date Revised            Actual Date
Identification                                                1979 a/                       -                   10/1979 k/
Preparation                                                 Early 1980                      -                    05/1980
Appraisal                                                    08/1980                         -                  09/1980 !/
Credit Negotiations                                          03/1981                        -                    03/1981
Board Approval                                               05/1981                        -                   06/16/1981
Credit Signing                                                 n.a.                         -                   07/15/1981
Credit Effectiveness                                           n.a.                         -                   09/24/1981
Project Completion                                          12/31/1985                       -                 12/31/1990 /
Credit Cosing                                               12/31/1986                 (four times)             12/31/1990
Credit Completion                                          06/30/1987                       -                  05/16/1991
Sri Lanka Aid Group Meeting.
/ FAO/CP identification mission.
!/ Follow-up mission in February 1981.
Sy Substantially completed.
C. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR million)
IDA Flscal Year                            1982      1983    1984       1985     1986     1987    1988   1989    1990   1991
Appraisal Estimate                          2.5       5.3     9.4       15.1     21.6      24.5      -       -       -
Actual                                      1.0       2.6     3.5        6.1      9.5      12.3    14.6   15.8    16.8   17.6
Actual as % of Appraisal                    40        49      37         40       44       50       60      64      69      72
Comments: The last disbursement was made on May 16, 1991, and SDR 6.92 million
was cancelled. Slow and low disbursements were due mainly to slow implementation
resulting from budget constraints, depreciation of the Rupee against the US
dollar and SDR, and shortage of experienced accountants.



- 23 -
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Indicators
Unit             Appraisal             Actual              % of
Estimate                                SAR
Rehabilitation
Village irrigation schemes                                no.                  1,200              1,072                89
Command area                                              ha                  31,500             31,445               100
Schemes handed over from ID to DAS                        no.                  1,200               694                 58
Modernization
Schemes                                                   no.                    500               627                125
Command area                                              ha                     n.a.            14,110
Construction Equipment
(Irrigation Department)
Crawler tractor with bulldozer attachment                 no.                      5                 5                100
Front-end loader                                          no.                      5                 3                60
Tractor and trailer                                       no.                     25                 2                  8
Tractor with water tank trailer                           no.                      5                  -
Water pump                                                no.                     10                 -
Sheep foot roller                                         no.                      5                 3                60
Vibrating rammer                                          no.                     30                26                87
Transport Vehicles                                        no.                    105               105                105
(Irrigation Department)
Passenger car                                             no.                     2                  1                50
4-wheel drive land vehicle                                no.                     40             79 /                 198
Pick-up truck (3-ton)                                     no.                     4                  2                50
5-ton truck                                               no.                  12 -S
10-ton truck                                              no.                   2'                   - 
Miscellaneous Equipment /
(Irrigation Department)
Theodolites                                               no.                     14                27                193
Levelling instrument set                                  no.                     30                87               290
Plan printing machine                                     no.                      9                 9                100
Compressor                                                no.                      2                 1                50
Personal computer                                         no.                      -                 2
Quality control instruments                               no.                      7                 7                100
a! Data for DAS not available.
i!/ Including 52 jeeps.
LI Reported on order in November 1982 but not included in ID's list of procured items handed to the PCR mission.



- 24 -
E. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
(I) Project Cost Za
......... SARI/ ..........A.... .......... .......chul
(Rs million)           (USS million)           (Rs million)           (USS million)
Cl Works
Survey and investigations                12.10                   0.70                   16.01                   058
Department of Irrigation (ID)           582.30                  32.40                   633A2                  21.75
Department of Agrarian Services         51.00                    2.80                   91.02                   2.69
(DAS)
Sub4otal                               64S40                   35.90                  740.45                  2S.02
Equipment and Vehicles
Department of Irrigation                 65.20                   3.60                    n.a.                    n.a.
Dept. of Agrarian Services               12.60                   0.70                    n.a.   .                na.
Sub-total                              77J0                     4.30                  44AS 5/                  1.4 LI
Inc. Recurrent Costs
Department of Irrigation                 1750                    0.90                   83.79                   2.86
Dept. of Agrarian Services               19.70                   1.10                   15.97                   0.52
Sub4otal                               36.70                    2.00                   99.76                   338
Training (DAS)                           8.80                    0.50                   25.60                   0.75
Evaluation studies                       9.90                    0.60                   10.52                   0.36
Technical assistance                     5.20                    0.30                    2.63                   0.11
TOTAL                                   73430                   43.60                   923.50                 31A9
'/ For details, see Attachment 1.
I! Including physical and price contingencies.
L/ Including ID and DAS.
Comments: Actual project cost was higher than the SAR estimate by 18% in Rupee
terms but 28% lower in US dollar terms. The increased cost in local currency was
due to a four-year delay in project implementation, resulting in higher than
expected administrative costs, increased unit cost of civil works and more
overseas and local training.   The lower cost  in US dollars reflects  the
depreciation of the Rupee by 55% against the US dollar during the project
implementation period.



- 25 -
(ll) Financing (USS million)
SAR                          Actuh
IDA           30.0 (69%)                    20.7 (66%)
GOSL           13.6 (31%)                   10.8 (34%)
Total         43.6 (100%)                   31.5 (100%)
F.  PROJECT RESULTS
(l) Direct Beneflts
Indicators                                   SAR                             PCR
Benefitting farm families (no.)          20,000 - 25,000                    46,500 a/
Benefitting command area (ha)              31,500 k/                        26,080 /I
Increase in cropping intensities -     from 81% to 116%                from 130% to 138%
overall project
Increase in rice production (tons)     37,800 per annum                 25,000 per annum
Increase in farm incomes (%)                81% /                          55% LI
Generated farm employment                2.1 per annum                   1.4 per annum
(million workdays)
l/ Through the reduction in emphasis on the dry zone (Part I, para 5.03), the average farm size
was reduced substantially, resulting in a larger number of benefitting farm families.
k/ Excluding DAS schemes.
i Excluding other farm and off-farm income (SAR, Table 6.2).
/ Including 75% of ID and of 80% DAS schemes; excluding the seven districts in the north and east (Part I,
para 6.03).
(ll) Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                  PCR Estimate
ERR (%)                                      20                             16
Project life (years)                         25                            25
Standard conversion factor (SCF)            0.90                           0.85
Unskilled labor conversion factor         0.8 - 0.9                        0.90



- 26 -
(iii) Financial Impact I
SAR Estimate Y"                    PCR Estimate J
Without           With            Without             Wlth
Project         Project           Project           Project
Net Farm Incomes (Rs) f
0.75 ha farm                    3,240            5,870            6,580             10,185
/ For details, see Annex 1.
/ Expressed in constant 1980 prices (Rs 9,720 and 17,610 in constant 1991 prices).
c/ Expressed in constant 1991 prices.
d Excluding other farm and off-farm income (SAR, Table 6.2).
(iv) Studies
Study                      Purpose as Defined at Appraisal              Status       Impact of Study
1. Monitoring of crop yields in    To determine project impact on agricultural  Completed  Limited
project schemes          production through annual crop cuttings and
evaluation in 200 to 250 schemes.
2. Socio-economic evaluation  To evaluate the project's impact on agricultural  Completed  Limited
production, farm incomes and employment through
annual surveys of about 20-25 tank schemes.
3. Physical Resources Evaluation   To improve the data base on hydrology and  Partially  Limited
Study                    irrigation potential of village tanks with a view to  completed
improving selection as well as design criteria for
project schemes.
Comments:
On 1.  above:   Crop yields were monitored  in a number of schemes,  the number
varying from 10 to 121, over nine years.
On 2. above: The main report of this multi-year study of some 44 schemes was
presented  in 1989.   While  it contains  quite  a good  synthesis  of qualitative
findings, the quantification of economic performance of rehabilitated schemes is
deficient due to poor data base and methodology. The conclusion drawn in the
study is that "in general, the economic benefit-cost ratios appear acceptable for
most  cases".    In  a  follow-up  study  of  14  schemes  presented  in  1991,  the
methodology remained deficient and economic analysis was lacking. Therefore,
results were again of limited value.
On  3.   above:        The   study  has   serious   shortcomings   in  methodology  and
interpretation. Yet, the data base may provide a useful background for future
follow-up investigations.



- 27 -
(v) Training
Type of Training                                               Number of                 Staff-          Averae No. of Days
Participants            Months              per PartIcipant
Irrigation Department
(mainly i..igation engineering)
- Staff seminars and training courses                               315                    172                   16
-Study tours abroad A/                                               61                    70                    34
Department of Agrarian Servkes
(mainly irrigation water management)
Junior staff V/                                                   2,984                    115                     1
Middle-level staff                                                2,445                    364                   4.5
Senior-level staff                                                  91                      13                   4.3
Farmer leaders                                                      208                     21                     3
Farmers                                                          17,717                    589                    1
Induction training at Technical College                             297                  2,700                  270
Study tours abroad A/                                                23                     65                    23
i/ Including scholarships, conferences, seminars.
k/ Including District staff.



- 28 -
G. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section   Dewription of Covenant                       Status      Deadline                 Comments
for
Compliance
3.02     Borrower to employ a water management        Complied    10/31/81   A water management adviser in DAS was
adviser,                                                            employed from 1981-84.
3.07(a)   Projet to follow an agreed implementation   Partially       -       Works in northern and eastern districts
program.                                     complied               had to be stopped in 1986, werc resumed
in 1989 but stopped again in 1990.
3.07(b)   Borrower to annually review/adjust          Complied        -       -
implementation program.
3.08     Borrower to establish/maintain project steering   Complied   -       A Project Steering Committee and District
and district agricultural committees.                               Agricultural Committees have been
functioning during projec implementation.
3.09(a)   Borrower to strengthen Department of        Complied        -       The DAS has been strengthened according
Agrarian Services according to an agreed                            to a program satisfactory to IDA; one
program and timetable.                                              Deputy Commissioner (Water
Management), one Water Management
Engineer, and ten Agricultural Planning
Teams were appointed by 12/31/81.
3.09(c)   Borrower to establish/maintain 12 agricultural    Complied    12/31/81   Agricultural planning teams have been
planning teams, as specified.                                       operating in all districts with on-going
VIRP programs.
3.0(d)   Review of effectiveness of administrative    Complied    12/31/84   Administrative changes introduced were
changes made by DAS in support of minor                             generally effective to support the minor
irrigation.                                                         irrigation program.
3.10     Borrower to furnish details to IDA on projet    Complied    12/31/81   Details of the proposed monitoring and
monitoring and evaluation studies undertaken.                       evaluation studies were received during
1982 and studies have been carried out.
4.02     Audit reports due to IDA not later than nine  Partially      -       Audit reports were consistently delayed.
months after end of fiscal year.            Complied



H. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
(i) Staff Inputs (Staff weks)
1963      1961      1"2        1963      194       1965      1196       1967      196        1969      19        191       Toal
Some of Project
Cyd1e
Through appraisal                      1.0       35                   -              -         -         -          -          -         -         -               4.5
Appraisl thrugh                        0.1      79.2       0.1        -         -         -         -         -           -         -                   -         79.4
Board appnval
Supervsion (SPN +                                0.4      17.8       7.2       12.9       7.5      175       13.0       11.7       15.0      8.3       18.2      1295
PCR + PAD)
TOTAL                                  1.1      83.1      17.9        7.2      12.9       75       175       13.0        11.7      15.0       8.3      18.2      213.4
SPN - Supervision.
PCR - PCR preparation.
PAD - Project administration not specifically related to a proect.
a/ Including ten staff wtcks for PCR.



(il) Misaln
Misae Type                          Menl               N  ber of     Days in       Spclitaia
Y:nct             SFM             Fkid          R R a-aaJ!/              P*rboMae Ratlng2/          TypCS df Prohlemsd/
Identification (FAO/CP)             November 79           3            18           IE,E,A
Prtparaiom (PAO/CP)                 March 80              3            23           IE,E,A
Pe-appraisal                        Aug/Sept 80           4            21           IE,W,IEA
Appraa                              Januaty 81            2             14          e,W
Supenidvon                          July81                1             4           e                               I
Superson 2                          January82             3             14          e,WE                           I
Supervso 3                          Novenber 82           2             10          EJE                            I
Supervision 4                       December 83           3             14          IE,IE,E                        2                            P
Supervision S                       Pebnay 85             2             10          A,IE                           2                            FIT
Revised Ratig
Awaibk            Project     Deblpmeut    Overa
Fumi          M AMnt           I_eat        Ratila
SupervAiion 6                       November 85           3             12          EA,IE          2               2                1           2
Supervnio 7                         July 86               2             10          2,1E           2               2                2           4
Supervision 8                       Pcbruary 87           2             10          2WE,           1               2                2           2
Supervui  9                         Pebruary 88           3             11          E,JFE          2               2                1           2
Supervision 10                      September88           3             7           E,12,1E        2               2                1           2                  0
Supervision 11                      Mach 89               3             5           A,lIE,E        2               2                1           2
Superision 12                       Decenmber 89          3             10          E,12,2E        2               2                1           2
Supervision 13                      July 90               4             22          E,E,Ie         1                2               1           2
Supervisio 14                       December 90           2             18          E,JE           1               2                1           2
a/ Date of return to beadquarters
/ A - Asriculturalst; E - Eceomost; W = Water Managemcnt Specials; IE - Irription Engineer.
I/ 1 - Pmble4ree or minor pblems; 2 - Moderate probles; 3 - Mjor problm
/ P = Fhacl; T - TechnicaL



-31 -
Attachment 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1160-CE)
Actual Project Cost (Rs million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990      Total
Survey & Investigation
D.A.S                 -       0.018    -      0.256   0.705   0.075   0.182   0.147   0.073   0.075    1.531
D.I.                  0.293   1.558   2.760   2.619   1.724   1.440   1.160   0.975   1.045   0.905   14.479
Civil Works
D.1.                  7.036  38.395  55.813  69.083  73.489  124.638  116.532  38.950  41.285  68.218  633.419
D.A.S.                -       0.023   1.722   4.105   7.318   6.754  12.941   16.841  15.869  25.448   91.021
Sub-total          7.329  39.994  60.295  76.063  83.216  132.907  130.815  56.913  58.272  94.646  740.450
Equipment & Vehicles
Equipment             0.146   1.561   2.127   2.760   1.413   0.236   0.250   0.697   1.770   0.330   11.290
Vehicles              3.209  15.566   8.201    1.838   1.518   0.429   1.791   0.662   0.033    -       33.247
Sub-total          3.355  17.127  10.328   4.598   2.931   0.665   2.041    1.359   1.803   0.330   44.537
Administration
D.l.                  0.686   4.785   8.355   8.713  12.218  13.075  10.484   7.988   6.575  10.909   83.788
D.A.S.                0.008   0.850   1.335   1.e92   1.099   1.919   2.142   2.151   2.293   2.485   15.974
Sub-total          0.694   5.635   9.690  10.405  13.317  14.994  12.620  10.139   8.888  13.394   99.762
Training
D.l.                  0.240   0.418   0.266   0.239   0.063   0.578   0.639   2.113   3.512   0.715    8.783
D.A.S.                -       0.222   1.443   0.869   0.365   0.887   3.203   4.353   2.317   3.154   16.813
Sub-total          0.240   0.640   1.709   1.108   0.428   1.465   3.842   6.466   5.829   3.869   25.596
Evaluation & Studies
University of
'Peradeniya         0.289   0.266   0.396   0.255   0.313   0.370   0.458   0.306   0.692   0.643    3.988
Agriculture Department   0.257   0.708   0.977   0.682   0.695   0.565   0.522   0.592   0.897   0.635    6.530
Sub-total          0.546   0.974   1.373   0.937   1.008   0.935   0.980   0.898    1.589   1.278   10.518
Technical Assistance  0.346   0.857   0.978   0.449    -        -       -       -       -        -       2.630
TOTAL                12.510  65.227  84.373  93.560  100.900  150.966  150.304   75.775  76.361  113.517  923.493



- 32 -
Annex I
Table 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Cropped Area
(Hectares)
Pre-Project Situation
Maha Season        Yala Season
Command Area             Rainfed  Irrig.   Irrig.  Irrig.
FY             ID       DAS    Adjusted a/    Paddy   PaddX    Paddy  Chillies
1982             140         0         80            24      56        24        0
1983           1,845         0     1,030            309     721       309        0
1984           5,020       420     3,060            918   2,142       918        0
1985           3,920    1,900      3,340         1,002   2,338    1,002          0
1986           2,660    2,190      2,800           840   1,960        840        0
1987           5,390    1,680      4,035         1,211   2,825    1,211          0
1988           5,550    2,380      4,535         1,361   3,175    1,361          0
1989           1,500    2,230      2,180            654   1,526       654        0
1990           2,340    1,390      2,140           642   1,498        642        0
1991           3,080    1,920      2,880           864   2,016        864        0
Total    31,445   14,110    26,080           7,824  18,256    7,824          0
a/  Excluding all schemes in 7 districts in the northern and eastern regions
(about 25X of total) and 25X of ID's and 20% of DAS' schemes, due to
various deficiencies.



- 33 -
Annex 1
Table 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Cropped Area
(Hectares)
Without Project Situation
Maha Season        Yala Season
Command Area               Rainfed  Irrig.   Irrig.  Irrig.
FY            ID      DAS    Adjusted a/       Paddy   Paddy    Paddy   Chillies
1982            140        0        80              35      45   ,   19         0
1983          1,845        0     1,030            453      577       247        0
1984          5,020     420      3,060          1,346   1,714        734        0
1985          3,920   1,900      3,340          1,470   1,870        802        0
1986          2,660   2,190      2,800          1,232   1,568        672        0
1987          5,390   1,680      4,035          1,775   2,260        968        0
1988          5,550   2,380      4,535          1,995   2,540    1,088          0
1989          1,500   2,230      2,180            959   1,221        523        0
1990          2,340   1,390      2,140            942   1,198        514        0
1991          3,080   1,920      2,880          1,267   1,613        691        0
Total   31,445  14,110    26,080           11,475  14,605    6,259         0
a/  Excluding all schemes in 7 districts in the northern and eastern regions
(about 25% of total) and 25% of ID's and 20% of DAS' schemes, due to
various deficiencies.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Cropped Area
(Hectares)
With Project Situation
Maha Season         Yala Season
Command Area              Rainfed  Irrig.   Irrig.  Irrig.
FY           ID         DAS    Adiusted a/    Paddy   Paddy    Paddy   Chillies
1982           140          0         80             22       58        26         4
1983         1,845-         0      1,030            278      752       340        52
1984         5,020        420      3,060            826   2,234    1,010         153
1985         3,920      1,900      3,340            902   2,438    1,102         167
1986         2,660      2,190      2,800            756   2,044        924       140
1987         5,390      1,680      4,035         1,089   2,946    1,332          202
1988         5,550      2,380      4,535         1,224   3,311    1,497          227
1989         1,500      2,230      2,180            589   1,591        719       109
1990         2,340      1,390      2,140            578   1,562        706       107
1991         3,080      1,920      2,880            778   2,102        950       144
Total  31,445    14,110    26,080            7,042  19,038    8,606    1,304
a/  Excluding all schemes in 7 districts in the northern and eastern regions
(about 25X of total) and 25% of ID's and 20% of DAS' schemes, due to
various deficiencies.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANRA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Per Hectare Financial Farm Budget
(Pre- and Without Project)
Rainfed   Maha Irrig.  Yala Irrig.
Paddy       Paddy          Paddy       Chillies
Farm Power (hired) - Rs a/            570          570           570           660
Seed - kg                             110          110           110             1
- Rs                          1,045        1,045         1,045           200
Fertilizers
Urea - kg                              20           55            70            90
- Rs                            196          539           686           882
TSP  - kg                              20           55            60            80
- Rs                            194          533.5         582           776
MOP  - kg                              10           35            55            65
- Rs                             91          318.5         500.5         591.5
Chemicals - Rs                        300          900           900         2,000
Other - Rs                            300          900           800         1,800
Hired Labor - Workdays b/              25           75            70           135
- Rs                  1,500        4,500   .    4,200          8,100
Total - Rs                         4,196        9,306         9,283.5       15,009.5
Yields - t/ha                           1.3          2.6           2.3           1.0
Gross Production Value - Rs        9.100       18,200        16,100         32,500
Family Labor - Workdays                20           50            45            90
a/  Actual payments made only - about 25% of total farm power requirement.
b/ About 60% of total farm labor requirement.



- 36 -
Annex 1
Table 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI AK
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Per Hectare Financial Farm Budget
(With Project)
Rainfed    Maha Irrig.  Yala Irrig.
Paddy        Paddy         Paddy        Chillies
Farm Power (hired) - Rs a/         570           570          570           660
Seed - kg                          110          110           110             1
- Rs                       1,045         1,045         1,045           200
Fertilizers
Urea - kg                           20            70           80            90
- Rs                         196           686           784           882
TSP  - kg                           20            60           75            80
- Rs                         194           582           727.5         776
MOP  - kg                           10            50           60            65
- Rs                          91           455           546           591.5
Chemicals - Rs                     300          975           950         2,000
Other - Rs                         300          900           850         1,800
Hired Labor - Workdays b/           25            90           75           135
- Rs                1,500        5,400         4,500         8,100
Total - Rs                      4,196        10,613         9,972.5      15,009.5
Yields - t/ha                        1.3           3.1          2.8           1.0
Gross Production Value - Rs    9,100         21,700        19,600        32,500
Family Labor - Workdays             20           60            45            90
a/ Actual payments made only - about 25X of total farm power requirement.
b/ About 60X of total farm labor requirement.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Table 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Farm Incomes - 0.75 ha Farm
Present   Without      With
Cropped Area (ha)
Maha Season:
- Rainfed Paddy                    0.23       0.33      0.20
-  Irrigated Paddy                 0.53       0.42      0.55
Yala Season:
-  Irrigated Paddy                 0.23       0.18      0.25
-  Chillies                        0.00       0.00      0.04
Total                                0.99       0.93      1.04
Gross Production Value (Rs)        15,440    13,545    19,955
Production Cost (Rs)                8,030      6,965     9,770
Net Farm Income (Rs)                7,410      6,580    10,185



- 38 -
Annex 1
Table 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Economic Analysis
(In Rs Million)
Project    O&M Cost        Without Project        With Project         Net
.FY. Cost a/  WOP b/  WP c/  Prod.Cost Benefits  Prod.Cost Benefits  Benefits
1981    20.5       0       0           0        0           0         0      - 20.5
1982   101.9    0.0    0.0          1.1      '3.0         1.2       3.0      -102.0
1983   101.8    0.2    0.6         14.8      31.1        16.8      40.2      - 95.1
1984    94.7    0.7    2.2         54.7    100.9         62.5    132.2       - 72.7
1985   115.1    1.3    4.0         96.4    152.1        112.4    206.5       - 79.4
1986   164.8    1.8    5.6        130.1    201.3        154.8    285.1       -109.5
1987   146.6    2.5    7.9        178.4    274.2        216.0    400.0       - 63.8
1988    68.1    3.2   10.5        232.0    348.8        283.5    520.1         44.5
1989    63.7    3.6   11.8        253.9    377.8        316.0    585.2         73.4
1990    77.5    3.9   13.1        274.7    399.0        347.5    639.4         80.9
1991       0    4.3   14.8        306.3    383.0        391.9    629.9        150.8
1992       0    4.2   14.9        302.3    379.6        396.5    652.1        167.6
1993       0    4.1   15.0        298.5    376.2        399.4    670.8        182.8
1994       0    4.0   15.1        295.3    368.2        401.9    675.9        190.0
1995       0    3.9   15.1        292.5    366.8        403.1    688.5        199.9
1996       0    3.9   15.1        290.3    366.3        404.0    698.4        207.2
1997       0    3.8   15.1        288.7    367.2        404.5    708.3        214.0
1998       0    3.8   15.1        287.9    369.7        405.2    718.0        219.7
1999       0    3.8   15.1        287.4    367.7        405.7    718.0        220.7
2000       0    3.8   15.1        287.4    371.8        406.3    727.8        225.7
2001       0    3.8   15.1        287.3    366.6        406.1    718.0        221.2
2002       0    3.8   15.1        287.2    356.1        405.8    698.6        212.5
2003       0    3.8   15.1        287.2    350.9        405.8    688.8        207.9
2004       0    3.8   15.1        287.5    340.4        405.7    669.3        199.3
2005       0    3.8   15.1        286.7    335.2        405.4    659.6        194.3
Economic Rate of Return - 15.7%
a/ See Annex 1, Table 8.
b/ Without project; estimated at Rs 200/ha, adjusted by CF of 0.9.
c/ With project; estimated at Rs 600/ha, adjusted by CF of 0.87.
Note: Financial analysis includes only actual payments made for farm power,
while the economic analysis includes this and also estimates of the
value of farm power from within the unit.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Table 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Project Costs
(In Rs Million)
Project Cost in                              Project Cost in
Current Prices                             Constant 1991 Prices
FY    Total a/ Excl.7 Dist. Adjust. b/   MUV    WPI   Financial  Economic c/
1981    12.5        - 2.6        9.9        1.41   2.70       23.5       20.5
1982    65.2        -14.0       51.2        1.43   2.56      116.6      101.9
1983    84.4        -23.6       60.8        1.47   2.05      115.8      101.8
1984    93.6        -26.6       67.0        1.50   1.63      107.0       94.7
1985   100.9        -29.1       71.8        1.49   1.93      130.7      115.1
1986   151.0        -46.5      104.5        1.26   1.98      188.1      164.8
1987   150.3        -45.8      104.5        1.15   1.75      167.2      146.6
1988    75.8        -19.9       55.9        1.07   1.49       77.4       68.1
1989    76.4        -20.4       56.0        1.08   1.36       72.2       63.7
1990   113.5        -33.0       80.5        1.02   1.11       87.5       77.5
a/ See Attachment 1.
b/ Excluding 25% of ID's and 10% of DAS' civil works costs, equivalent to
35% of total civil works costs.
c/ About 25% foreign exchange and 75% local costs. Local costs adjusted
by CF of 0.85.



- 40 -
Annex 1
Table 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI  AR
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Financial                                       Economic
SAR          PCR          SAR                               PCR
Unit   1980   1990    1991        1980   1990    1980    1985    1990    1991    2000    2005
Outwmts
Paddy            Rs/kg    2.5    4.0        7.0       3.7    4.8    15.8       8.2      7.4      6.4      7.1     6.4
Chillies                  19.9   19.9    32.5        17.9   17.9    27.6    27.6    27.6    27.6    27.6    27.6
Inpts
Fertilizers
Ursa                     2.3    7.2       9.8       5.8    7.2    21.0    13.5    10.6    10.5    11.4    10.9
TSP                      2.4    6.2       9.7       5.0    6.2    18.8    13.8        9.3      9.6    11.0    11.1
HDP              "       1.9    3.9       9.1       3.9    3.9    13.4    10.2        8.2      7.8      8.3     8.3
Labor            Rs/wd
Slack Period            12.0   12.0 )  60.0         9.6    9.6 )  51.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    51.0
Peak Period             18.0   18.0 )             16.2   16.2
Seeds
Paddy          Rs/kg   n.a.   n.a.        9.5     n.a.   na.        8.1      8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1      8.1
Chillies                n.a.   n.a.   200.0       n.a.   na.   170.0   170.0   170.0   170.0   170.0   170.0
Farm Power       Rsuhr   80.0   92.0                 98.4  113.3
"1  ".  .      Rs/ha                  2500.0                     2125.0  2125.0  2125.0  2125.0  2125.0  2125.0
SAR:  In constant 1980 prices.  Staff Appraisal Report, April 30, 1981 (Report No. 3363-CE),
Annex 5. Table 2.
PCR:  In constant 1991 prices.  From SAR on National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, May 9, 1991
(Report No. 925-CE), Annex 12, Table 2.  Prices of non-traded goods adjusted by CF of 0.85
and unskilled labor wage rate by 0.9.
Note
Calculated in constant 1980 US dollars (per MT) for comparison, the reference prices for rice, on
which the above SAR and PCR paddy price estimates are based, show a substantial drop in expected
levels between the two reports:
1980       1985       1990   1991       2000       2005
SAR                   440        560        579    579         579        579
PCR                   434        227        205    176         199        179



IBRD 24287
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Area
3          e  ||OmIGINAL PROJECTAREAS
ACTUAL PROJECT AEASi:
\\.XS 1  DISTRICTS ORIGINALLY INCWDED
DISTRICTS ADDED DURING
kJ\*  ................... 't.... 4 MPLEMENTATION
\     DISTRICT CAPITALS
C<x    t\  \0\ t        <          X                    (53  ~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONALtCAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
* Disbursements suspended from
mid. - 1986tomid. -1990
MILES
j   \T _  W                  T n n n o b    1    ~~~~~1l0    20             30
\   f  r                             4'$\V<gS                 o   11~~~~~~0 2110  4io50
l f  (   ANURADHAPURA        r\ \\                            KLOMETERS
(   \  _         ~~~~ A n ro d ha p w ro                                           t
COL'MBO    COLOMPOLONNARUWA8O
KIg \-.II suo.    N Y                                o sod   do
INDIA ~      C  poh        KGALLE A            f
COLOMBO  CLA ,                                                             l       M. o           o
Ka uo  5KALU2A6-
SRI   GALLE-Lo                                             o b mop doonotiobpod oo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Igl LANK 80- Mbof 01*0'rwsss-
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
V.:z,d&wkG,*up.osYA Thd-z:0-d. of   9do9.
DECEMBER 1992



