Document of
The World Bank                   FiUE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3363-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performence of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1      =       Rs 18.0
Rs 1      =       US$ 0.0556
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
I acre              =      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 long ton          =      1.016 metric tons
1 meter             -      3.28 feet (ft)
1 bushel of paddy  =       20.87 kg
1 cube              -      100 cubic feet
1 cubic foot        =      0.0283 cubic meters
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASC  -    Agrarian Service Center
CO   -    Cultivation Officer
DA   -    Department of Agriculture
DAS  -    Department of Agrarian Services
DCB  -    Decentralized Budget
DCS  -    Department of Census and Statistics
DI   -    Department of Irrigation
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
FFHC -    Freedom From Hunger Campaign
GPS  -    Guaranteed Price Scheme "for paddy)
ICB  -    International Competitive Bidding
LDO  -    Land Development Ordinance
LHG  -    Low Humic Gleys
MADR -    Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
MLLD -    Ministry of Lands and Land Development
PMB  -    Paddy Marketing Board
RBE  -    Red Brown Earths
RD   -    Rural Development
RWS  -    Rotational Water Supply
TA   -    Technical Assistant
TS   -    Tank Supervisor
VIR  -    Village Irrigation Rehabilitation
UP   -    University of Peradeniya
WMS  -    Water Management Specialist
GLOSSARY
Akarawela   -  recently bunded irrigable paddyland
Anicut      -  diversion scheme
Chena       -  shifting (slash and burn) cultivation
Purana      -  traditional permanently bunded irrigable paddyland
Maha        -  northeast monsoon, October-February
Oligama     -  rainfed paddyland
Vel vidane  -  irrigation headman
Yala        -  southwest monsoon, April-September
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ....... .............1................. 
The Economic Context  ...................................                      I
Agriculture in Sri Lanka  ................................                     1
The Irrigation Subsector  ................................                     3
Village Irrigation and its Context  ..... ............                         4
Village Irrigation Development Programs  .................                     5
Bank Group Involvement in Irrigation  ..                ..................     6
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ........................................                      7
Introduction         ....................................                      7
Physical Resources .......................                                     7
Agricultural Development                .................   10
Production Constraints and Risks  .......... ..              ............     12
Status of Water Management in Sri Lanka  ..                ...............    13
Agricultural Institutions  ..............         ..     ...............      14
Inputs and Services ..................                           ..           16
III.    THE PROJECT ..........................................                        18
Project Objectives  ......................................                    18
Summary of Project Features  .............................                    18
Civil Works  ..........          ...................................          19
Water Management and Maintenance  ........................                    23
IV.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ........ ........                    25
Project Costs  ........ ..............            .....................       25
Financing        ........................      .......................        25
Procurement            .............................................          26
Disbursements  ....... * ..............           .....................       28
Accounts and Audits           ...................     ..................      28
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................                     29
Overall Project Management  .............         ..     ...............      29
Civil Works  ....          .........................................          30
Operation, Maintenance and Water M4anagement  .............                   32
Training                ..........................  35
Technical Assistance               ....................   36
Monitoring and Evaluation ............................                        36
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Sri Lanka
in August/September 1980 comprising Messrs D.J.W. Berkoff and D. Leeuwrik (IDA)
and V. Branscheid and Y.K. Murthy (Consultants) and of a follow-up mission in
January/February 1981 comprising Messrs. D.J.W. Berkoff and J. Kampen (IDA).



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, PRICES AND FA1M INCOMES ..     ...................    37
Agricultural Development with the Project    ...............    37
Marketing  and  Prices   ....... .... .........................  39
Farm Incomes .......................................... . .   40
Cost  Recovery   ............................................... 0 ..........  43
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    .........................    44
General   ................. ........ ..............................  44
Employment  Effects  . .....................  .........   .......  44
Foreign Exchange Effects ....    ............................    45
Environmental  Impact  ..  ..................................  45
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analysis ...........    45
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests    .....................    46
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................  48
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - Agricultural Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1 - Supplementary Irrigation Requirements of Crops by Soil
Type
Table 2 - Water Balance of Walagambahuwa Tank
Table 3 - Area Sown Under Mlinor Irrigation: 1975-1980
Table 4 - Area Harvested as Percent Area Sown Under Minor
Irrigation: 1975-1980
Table 5 - Average Yields Under Minor Irrigation: 1975-1980
Chart 1 - Probability of Occurrence of Periods of Seven Days of
Consecutive Rainless Days and M4oisture Stress
Chart 2 - The Dry Zone Catena
ANNEX 2 - Project Schedules, Sample Cost Estimates and Organization
Table 1 - Approximate Number of Schemes Proposed for Rehabilitation:
by District: 1981-85
Table 2 - Analysis of Civil Works Costs: Based on Preliminary Estimates
for Schemes to be Rehabilitated in 1981
Table 3 - Sample Cost Estimates for Typical Tanks: by Method of Construction
Table 4 - Sample Cost Estimate for Typical Anicut
Chart 1 - Project Management and Implementation
Chart 2 - Department of Agrarian Services: Organization Chart (Existing)
Chart 3 - Department of Agrarian Services: Organization Chart (Proposed)
ANNEX 3 - Project Cost Tables
Table 1 - Project Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Table 2 - Estimates of Average Cost of Civil Works at Current Prices
and Approximate Number of Project Schemes
Table 3 - Construction Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
Table 4 - Transport Vehicles List and Procurement Schedule
Table 5 - Miscellaneous Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
Table 6 - Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements



- iii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES (cont'd)
ANNEX 4 - Criteria for Selection of Schemes for Rehabilitation
ANNEX 5 - Supporting Tables and Charts: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1 - Cropping Intensities and Cropped Areas Assumed for Economic
and Financial Analysis
Table 2 - Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 3 - Calculation of Construction Conversion Factor
Table 4 - Crop Input Requirements and Yields
Table 5 - Typical Budgets for Representative Farms in the Dry Zone
Table 6 - Typical Budgets for Representative Farms in the Intermediate Zone
Table 7 - Economic Cash Flow
Table 8 - Relative Importance of Project Cost and Benefit Streams with
Switching Values
Table 9 - Sensitivity Analysis: Difference Between With and Without
Cases: Yields and Cropping Intensities
Chart l(a) - Locus of Present Values of Total Project Costs and Benefits
Chart l(b) - Locus of Total Project Cost and Benefit Switching Values
ANNEX 6 - Supporting Documents in Project File






SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Economic Context
1.01      Per capita income in Sri Lanka remains low (US$220 approx.), and
until recently, the economy was characterized by low rates of growth in output
and employment. In contrast, social progress has been considerable: literacy
is high, basic health facilities are widely available, population growth rates
have declined to about 2% p.a. and average life expectancy approaches that of
much more prosperous countries. Ambitious social programs have, however,
increasingly been called into question by economic stagnation, and the Govern-
ment that came to power in 1977 has, therefore, implemented a series of major
reforms designed to revive the economy through dismantling controls over
resource allocation; establishing realistic relative prices and incentives;
and launching an ambitious public sector investment program. The economy's
response has been encouraging. 1/ GDP grew by 8% in 1978, 6% in 1979 and a
further 6% in 1980. Nevertheless, by 1980 it had become clear that the
Government's strategy, in particular its emphasis on major long-gestation,
capital-intensive investments, carried with it certain risks. Overheating of
the economy was reflected in a sharp increase in the rate of inflation (which
probably exceeded 30% in 1980) and the emergence of a severe balance of
payments problem. Domestic inflation has been aggravated by adjustments to
administered prices and adverse external developments, but recourse to infla-
tionary finance in an attempt to maintain public investment has also been a
significant factor. The Government has begun to address these problems,
notably through adjustments to the investment program (including a 25% across-
the-board reduction in investment allocations in the 1981 budget). Neverthe-
less, further measures will almost certainly be required if the successes of
the Government's policy reforms are to be maintained. Among these measures
will be the need to emphasize quick-yielding investments (such as the proposed
Village Irrigation Rehabilitation (VIR) project) to sustain medium term
growth, while adjusting longer-term large-scale investments to the absorptive
capacity of the economy.
Agriculture in Sri Lanka
1.02      Sri Lanka is endowed with resources and a diversity of agro-climatic
conditions which permit a wide range of agricultural pursuits. Agriculture
remains of central importance to the economy and accounts directly for more
1/   For a full review of the economic situation see the latest economic
report: "Sri Lanka: Key Development Issues in the 1980s" Report No.
2955-CE, HIay 20, 1980.



- 2 -
than 25% of GDP, 50% of employment, 70% of export earnings and about 40% of
government revenue. In addition much of the activity in the manufacturing,
transport, and service sectors is directly or indirectly related either to
the supply of agricultural inputs or to the processing and marketing of
agricultural outputs.
1.03      The island can be divided into two climatic zones which determine
the primary characteristics of agricultural production. The wet zone (average
annual rainfall in excess of 1,900 mm) is situated in the southwest quadrant
of the island and accounts for about 30% of the land area, with population
densities as high as 700 per sq km. Rainfall comes with both the northeast
and the southwest monsoons, permitting the double cropping of rice and other
field crops as well as the cultivation of perennials, notably tea, rubber and
coconuts. The dry zone (rainfall 900 to 1,900 mm) covers most of the remain-
ing land area to the north, east and southeast. In contrast to the wet zone,
rainfall is concentrated during the northeast monsoon or maha season (October
through March) and cropping during the southwest monsoon (April through
September) is only possible where irrigation is provided. Population densi-
ties are much lower than in the wet zone, averaging only 75 per sq km. A
transitional band between the wet and the dry zones is known as the inter-
mediate zone.
1.04      A total of about 2.25 M ha is under permanent cultivation (34%
of the land area), of which about 65% lies in the wet zone. Paddy accounts
for about 0.65 M ha (divided fairly equally between the two zones), tree crops
for about 0.93 M ha (concentrated in the wet zone) and other perennial crops
for about 0.04 M ha. The remaining 0.62 M ha comprises mixed, rainfed farming
(mainly in the wet zone) mostly in the form of small gardens around the
homestead.  In addition, up to 1.0 M ha in the dry zone is, in any one year,
under shifting cultivation (locally known as chena).
1.05      In line with general economic developments, the rate of growth in
agricultural value-added declined from 3.4% p.a. during the 1960s to only
1.9% p.a. between 1970-76. Coconuts, tea, and rubber fared particularly poorly,
but there was also a striking decline in the rate of growth of paddy output--
from 6% p.a. (following the introduction of the new high yielding varieties)
to only 0.9%. Erratic weather conditions, declining commodity prices, a
rising effective tax burden, and a dual exchange rate system which discrimi-
nated against traditional exports, all combined to depress producer incentives.
This was compounded by the uncertainties caused by a long drawn-out land
reform (1972-75) and a deterioration in the institutional support for produc-
tion programs. Although the minor field crop sector (pulses, oilseeds,
chillies, coarse grains) was reasonably successful, even this was primarily
based on artificially high prices created by the effective ban on imports.
1.06      As with other sectors of the economy, the initial response to the
Government's policy reforms was encouraging. Agricultural value-added rose
by 10% in 1977 and a further 5% in 1978--the first sustained increase since
the late 1960s. In 1979, the rate declined to about 2% due to drought, and a
further drought limited growth during the current year. However, the overall
increase during the period has been substantial, largely due to increases in
paddy production which rose from an average 1.4 M tons between 1970-76 to



- 3 -
successive records, reaching 2.1 M tons in 1980 despite the drought. Gener-
ally favorable weather, the initial impact of the Mahaweli program, a 21%
increase in the government procurement (GPS) price in November 1977, and the
general effects of the policy reforms all played a part. In contrast to the
paddy sector, production increases in the tree crop sector have been limited,
due primarily to past neglect. The performance of minor field crops has also
been poor, being adversely affected by import liberalization. The recent
removal of subsidies on imported wheat and the introduction of a support price
scheme for some minor crops should, however, bolster future production.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.07      Rainfall in the wet zone is fairly well distributed throughout the
year. Paddy can therefore be grown under rainfed conditions, and irrigation
is normally limited to run-of-the-river diversions. Double cropping is
widespread, with overall intensities averaging about 170%. In contrast, in
the dry zone irrigation is normally essential for paddy cultivation. Most
existing schemes are based on storage tanks designed to supplement rainfall in
the maha season, with residual supplies being used for limited yala cropping.
There are a total of about 180 major schemes which have a storage capacity of
2,000 acre ft or more (irrigating nearly 400,000 acres) together with a large
number of smaller village schemes. Although often based on ancient systems,
many of the larger schemes have been developed through colonization programs
designed to relieve population pressure in the wet zone. In contrast, most
of the smaller tanks are associated with traditional (purana) villages which
often have a long history of continuous settlement.
1.08      In addition to the development of tank irrigation, past colonization
programs have included a number of more complex river basin developments of
which the most important were the Gal Oya and Uda Walawe projects. These
have now culminated in the ambitious Mahaweli Ganga Development Program which
aims to harness the perennial supplies of the largest Sri Lanka river system,
not only for development within the Mahaweli basin itself, but also for transfer
to neighboring catchments in the dry zone. It envisages the ultimate develop-
ment of 900,000 acres of new land (effectively doubling the total irrigated
area) and 970 MW of hydroelectric generating capacity. In addition to greatly
expanding the irrigated area, it will link up a number of existing schemes,
supplementing their limited catchment yields with assured perennial supplies.
The present government has greatly accelerated the Mahaweli program which is
now expected to account for more than 30% of 1981-85 public investment.
1.09      While the major emphasis in the irrigation sector is on the expan-
sion of the irrigated area, there is a growing realization that the utilization
of existing systems, and even of newly developed systems, remains well below
their potential. This reflects on the one hand inadequate maintenance of
irrigation facilities and their consequent deterioration, and on the other the
wasteful use of water due to inefficient water control and management. Despite
its preoccupation with the Mahaweli program, the government has begun to give
greater attention to smaller scale projects designed to make more efficient
use of existing systems. The resources available for this purpose are limited
but a number of projects have been developed (some with Bank assistance),
and this objective also lies at the heart of the proposed Village Irrigation
Rehabilitation (VIR) project.



- 4-
Village Irrigation and its Context
1.10      Minor irrigation schemes are defined as having a command area of
200 acres (80 ha) or less. Most were constructed by the proprietors with
government aid confined at most to the provision of headworks and sluices.
There may be as many as 25,000 such schemes throughout the country, with an
irrigable area in excess of 400,000 acres. Of these about 15,000 are village
tank schemes located in the dry and, to a lesser extent, the intermediate
zones. In contrast, the 10,000 or so anicut (diversion) schemes lie largely
in the wet zone. Many schemes have deteriorated or been abandoned, and the
Ministry of Lands and Land Development (MLLD) estimates that only about
50% are in working condition at varying degrees of efficiency.
1.11      Under current water management practices, water is usually allowed
to flow from field-to-field with few control structures, limited field channel
development and head sluices that are seldom operated systematically in
relation to rainfall or irrigation needs. Continuous flow leads to water
losses and underutilization of the available land and water. Since it is
difficult for individual farmers to change this system, increased guidance by
government will probably be necessary to make the best use of the available
resources.
1.12      Operation and maintenance have traditionally been the responsibility
of the farmers themselves, with government support confined at most to arrang-
ing pre-cultivation meetings, resolving water disputes, or undertaking major
repair works. Management under the traditional system was controlled by the
vel vidane, an irrigation headman who usually owed his position to inheritance
or leadership qualities. Under his guidance, the farmers (at least in theory
and often in practice) implemented an agreed and coordinated cultivation
program below the tank. In return he received certain payments in kind
(traditionally half a bushel per cropped acre). With the passage of the
Paddy Lands Act in 1958, its subsequent amendment, and its replacement by
the Agricultural Lands Act of 1973, the government attempted in various ways
to replace the traditional system with elected committees under official
sponsorship. During the 1960s, this system appears to have functioned fairly
well, but further administrative changes weakened the effectiveness of the
elected committees, with the result that the traditional system of control was
undermined without being replaced by an effective alternative. Recognizing
this, the present government has abolished the system of elected committees,
replacing it with one which in some ways returns to traditional practice.
Responsibility for day-to-day operation has (at least in theory) been returned
to an irrigation headman (now elected) assisted by an appointed Agrarian
Services Committee and officials of the Department of Agrarian Services (DAS).
More than 4,000 cultivation officers (COs) have been appointed, and public
funds have been provided through DAS to restore physical facilities. The COs
are, however, generalists with wide responsibilities for the local provision
and coordination of agricultural inputs and services, and their role in minor
irrigation has been limited. Under the VIR project, technical support for
minor irrigation provided by DAS will be strengthened with the aim not only of
restoring physical facilities but also of introducing improved agricultural,
water management and irrigation maintenance programs.



- 5 -
1.13      While the decline of traditional management partly explains the
deterioration and underutilization of village irrigation systems, the fact
that such systems form only one element in a complex agriculture, increasingly
orientated to rainfed farming, also has effect. With time and population
growth, paddy holding sizes have declined, while the developed area below the
tank has tended to increase, aggravating the risks of cultivation. To offset
these trends, and acutely aware of his cash, labor, and farm power constraints,
the farmer has increasingly allocated his effort and resources to upland and
chena cultivation, a process that was given added impetus during the 1970s by
the high prices for upland crops (para 1.05). Rice cultivation continues to
play an important role in village life, providing subsistence and stability,
and conferring a certain social status on those who own paddyland. Neverthe-
less, evidence is accumulating that, even in large rice-based colonization
schemes, unauthorized chena cultivation can be the main source of income,
incurring the least cash risks and providing the most satisfactory distribu-
tion of monthly returns.
1.14      Chena is destructive of the land resource, and declining fertility,
weed competition and soil erosion lead to low yields per unit area. The Gov-
ernment is actively seeking to discourage chena, and this is an important
rationale for re-establishing tank-based irrigated agriculture as a focus
for promoting stabilized upland cropping. Rehabilitation of existing schemes
involves fairly limited risks. In the case of new village irrigation develop-
ments, however, given the substantially higher costs involved, more comprehen-
sive area development planning is required to ensure that balanced agricultural
systems are developed comprising both dryland and irrigated cropping. Even in
established systems, there are undoubtedly complementary measures that could
be taken, separately or in association with irrigation rehabilitation programs,
to stabilize upland agriculture in lands bordering purana villages and to
implement GOSL's objectives of discouraging--and if possible eliminating--
chena cultivation.
Village Irrigation Development Programs
1.15      Over the years, GOSL has implemented a number of village irrigation
rehabilitation programs under various budgetary heads. These have included a
food-for-work program (supported by the World Food Program and implemented
by the Ministry of Rural Development) which undertook repairs to some 6,000
village tanks between 1974-79, and projects financed under the Decentralized
Budget. It was not, however, until the present government came to power that
a systematic approach to village irrigation was adopted. Three types of
program have been, or are to be, implemented:
(a)  Rural Development Projects, implemented through the Ministry
of Plan Implementation, but including as a major component
the rehabilitation of both minor and major irrigation schemes.
The first (for Kurunegala District) was supported with an IDA
credit (Credit No. 891-CE). Others have been implemented for
Hambantota (Norwegian assistance), Matara (Sweden), and Nuwera
Eliya (the Netherlands). A second IDA project has recently
been approved for Puttalam and Matale (Credit No. 1079-CE).
Further projects are envisaged for Badulla (IFAD) and
Vavuniya and Mannar (possibly IDA).



-6-
(b)  Irrigation Department Programs, implemented under the Depart-
ment's own budget. The first major program was implemented
in 1980 and included the rehabilitation of about 150 schemes
in six districts. This was essentially the first phase of
the proposed VIR project which originated in proposals
submitted by GOSL to the 1979 meeting of the Sri Lanka Aid
Group. It was prepared between October 1979 and July 1980
by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
(c)  Dry Zone Farming Projects to be implemented under the budget
of the Ministry of Agriculture. The first is to be for
Anuradhapura and will be supported by the ADB. In contrast
to most other programs this project includes not only tank
rehabilitation, but also settlement of new areas by tank-
based communities within the context of overall land use
planning.
1.16      Although these various programs are financed under different budget
heads, the civil works component in each is the responsibility of the Irrigation
Department. Measures have been taken, therefore, to ensure that implementation
of the proposed VIR project complements other programs. The dry zone farming
project areas (notably Anuradhapura) have been excluded from the VIR project,
while the districts covered by rural development projects will only be included
once the minor irrigation components of such projects have been completed.
Bank Group Involvement in Irrigation
1.17      The Bank's lending strategy has increasingly focussed on the agricul-
tural sector which is expected to account for about 50% of the total FY80-85
program. The irrigation sector has been mainly supported in the context of
the Mahaweli program with one project completed (Ln 653-CE/Cr 168-CE), one
under implementation (Cr 701-CE, US$19.0 M) and a third recently appraised
(for a credit of US$90.0 M). A technical assistance credit is supporting the
long term planning of Mahaweli development (Cr 979-CE, US$3.0 M). In addi-
tion to Mahaweli, IDA is supporting a Tank Irrigation Modernization project
covering five major tanks in the dry zone (Cr 666-CE, US$5.0 1M). Finally,
the two rural development projects discussed above (Cr 891-CE, US$20 M and
Cr 1079-CE, US$33.5 M) include major components covering the rehabilitation
of both minor and medium sized irrigation schemes. Two small irrigation
projects have been completed--Lift Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M) and
Drainage and Reclamation (Cr. 168-CE, US$2.5 M)--and performance audit reports
prepared. The audit reports identified design deficiencies, in particular
as a result of over-optimism of the response of beneficiaries but also due
to inadequate attention to research and extension services and, in the case
of the Drainage and Reclamation Project, to unusual soil conditions. As a
consequence, net benefits have been lower than envisaged at appraisal, although
the revised rates of return remain satisfactory. Over the last several years,
project preparation activities have been directed towards obtaining a fuller
understanding of the systems and institutions expected to have significant
impact on project benefits. In particular, an Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 931-CE) has been initiated which would complement
the activities proposed under this and other projects. In general, ongoing
projects are progressing satisfactorily.



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA 1/
Introduction
2.01      The project is concerned with the scattered, irrigable areas com-
manded by small village tanks and anicuts. Two major dry zone districts
(Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa) are excluded but, apart from these, the project
area comprises essentially the whole of the dry and intermediate zones,
together with minor parts of the neighboring wet zone (see Hlap 15450). In
addition to the main zonal divisions, Sri Lanka has been subdivided into 22
agro-ecological regions according to elevation, topography, climate, and major
soils associations (Map 14076R). Most of the project area is covered by the
four dry zone regions, which are characterized by flat-to-undulating terrain,
and the three "low country" intermediate zone regions. Limited parts of the
hilly, more steeply dissected regions of the "mid-country" also fall within
the project area, while eastern Ratnapura extends into the true wet zone.
Physical Resources
2.02      Climate.  The main climatic features of importance to the project
are those of the dry and intermediate zones. Rainfall characteristically
shows a bimodal pattern with two well defined seasons. The greater part of
the rain falls during October through January (maha) as a result of the fIorth
East Monsoon. Lesser rains occur during MIarch through May (yala), the period
of the South West Monsoon. A short dry season occurs in February and a longer
and more pronounced dry period stretches from June through September. Map
15453 illustrates how the duration of wet and dry periods vary throughout the
project area. Annual rainfall at the level of 75% probability of occurence
varies from as low as 650 mm in the northwestern and southeastern parts of the
dry zone to about 1,200 mm in the mid-country areas of the intermediate zone.
On average, the most drought-prone districts experience serious droughts once
in every three or four years during yala and once in every five to seven years
during maha. The great variability of rainfall from year-to-year and the
frequency of dry spells are dominant features influencing agricultural per-
formance, both under rainfed and tank-irrigated conditions, and result in
widely fluctuating crop areas and yields (Annex 1, Tables 3-5).
2.03      Because of strong, dry winds and high temperatures, rains during
yala can be largely ineffective in the lower rainfall areas. They play a more
important, if somewhat unreliable role in the intermediate zone and account
for a major part of total rainfall in the wet zone. Temperature imposes no
constraint on agriculture. Maximum and minimum temperatures average about
0        0
89 F and 77 F, respectively, with little variation about the mean. Provided
adequate water is available, crops can be grown the year round.
1/   This discussion takes into account data derived from the 1973 Agricul-
tural Census and other statistical sources, a socio-economic survey
undertaken by the University of Peradeniya (UP) as part of project
preparation and studies undertaken at various times by the Agricultural
Research and Training Institute (ARTI).



- 8 -
2.04      Soils and Land Capability. The main soil types and associations
are shown on Map 14077R1. Reddish Brown Earths (RBE) and their hydromorphic
variant Low Humic Gleys (LHG) occur most widely in the dry zone, with an
estimated area of more than 2 M ha or about 30% of Sri Lanka's total land
area. HIost of the tanks are situated on these soils. Tanks are found to
a lesser extent on the 0.4 M ha of alluvial soils scattered throughout the
project area. Red and yellow latosols cover about 0.3 M1 ha in the northern
Coastal region. They are as a rule highly permeable and unsuitable for tank
construction. Other coastal soils have a combined area of about 0.6 M ha,
and comprise non-calcic brown soils, sandy regosols and some black clay,
saline and alkaline soils.
2.05      The most common soils in the project area (the RBE and LHG), occur
in a catenary sequence in the gently undulating-to-rolling topography of the
dry zone, which is a composite of minor watersheds and drainage basins (Annex
1, Chart 2). Drainage variations differentiate the soils, with the RBE being
generally well drained at the top of the slope, moderately-to-imperfectly
drained on the mid-slopes, and replaced by the poorly drained LHG on the lower
slopes and in the valley bottoms. RBE are residual soils, while the LHG
contain elements from the upper slopes transported through the erosive action
of water. They are therefore heavier than the RBE and have a layer of calcium
carbonate at about 3 ft depth. Infiltration rates for the LHG are much
lower and moisture holding capacity higher. A high water table during most of
the crop season and impeded drainage restrict land use possibilities. The RBE
on the other hand are more amenable to diversified cropping with upland crops.
Both soils are easily saturated, are sticky and plastic when wet, and hard
when dry. The period that they can be worked easily with bullock-power after
rain or irrigation is very short.
2.06      The depth of surface soils to impermeable bedrock is variable but
in most instances not great. Water tables in the upper slopes are well down,
rising to within 3 ft of the surface only in years of exceptional rainfall.
In these areas, internal drainage during the wet season is good. In the
middle and lower slopes, water tables may rise to the surface for short
periods during the wet season, but are well down during the dry season. The
LHG soils in the valley bottoms remain poorly drained for a large part of the
year with water tables rising to the surface. Even during the dry season water
tables may stay within a few feet of the surface (3-8 ft at Maha Illuppallama).
Lateral seepage from the well drained areas of a catchment to lower portions
can be considerable, thereby greatly affecting crop performance and apparent
water use in the lower areas.
2.07      Water Resources and Hydrology.  Outside the areas influenced by
major schemes, the seasonal pattern and unreliability of rainfall make water
the most limiting resource in the dry zone. Rainfall is occasionally aug-
mented by water from anicuts, shallow dugwells and tubewells, but storage
tanks of varying size represent easily the most significant supplementary
source of water in all areas outside the major schemes, the Jaffna peninsular
and the northern latosol region. These tanks allow a more efficient utiliza-
tion of available rainfall and greater stability in annual crop production,
as well as supplying water for domestic purposes and stock.



2.08      The distribution of tanks is governed by landscape, soil suitability,
and social factors. Most village tanks are constructed across valleys on the
less permeable (LIHG) soils. Ihigh tank densities are found in Anuradhapura,
northern Matale, and Vavuniya districts, and in transition areas between the
dry and intermediate zones, notably in Kurunegala whiclh has easily the highest
number of tanks. Individual tank sites are influenced as much by social as by
technical factors and are not always in the most favorable position in relation
to the hydrology of their associated catchments. They are generally shallow,
with an average depth above sluice level of about 10 ft when filled. Catch-
ment areas are small, although tanks are sometimes built in cascade along the
more substantial valleys. Streams are non-perennial and flow for relatively
short periods following rain. Commiand areas are highly variable in relation
to catchment area, storage capacity, and extent of reservoir. Irrigation
potential and efficiency of water use can also vary tremendously, from the
larger tanks that provide water in all seasons to small tanks which do not
fully irrigate their command areas even during the maha.
2.09      Unfortunately, little is known about the hydrology of small tanks
and reasonably complete hydrological information is available for the last
four years for only one tank, at Walagambahuwa. This settlement itself is
thought to be fairly typical of some 3,000 similar villages occupying a total
rice growing area of about 100,000 ha. Rainfall averages about 1,200-1,500
mm, with 70% received during the maha season. The 75% probability of rainfall
expectancy based on monthly totals is, however, only 750-850 mm. Annex 1,
Table 2 summarizes relevant data on the characteristics of the tank and its
catchment area. Although general conclusions can hardly be drawn from one
tank, and Walagambahuwa is unusually favorably served both in terms of tank
area to command and capacity, the following points emerge:
(a)  During maha the contribution of runoff to tank inflow
is roughly twice that of direct rainfall. In yala, the
contribution of runoff is negligible.
(b)  Catchment water yield varies widely from year to year in
maha (5-25%), while it is more even, but negligible for
irrigation purposes in yala (3%). The wide variations
in maha are-due to differences in rainfall duration and
intensity, changing vegetative cover, soil conditions and
moisture status of the catchment over time.
(c)  Tank water losses are from evaporation, deep percolation,
bund leakage and overflow. For the Walagambahuwa tank,
total water losses range from 5-10 mam per day. Such
high losses severely restrict the irrigation potential
of small, shallow tanks in yala.
2.10      In addition to its hydrological investigations, the Department of
Agriculture (DA) has tested improved agronomic programs over four years at
Walagambahuwa (see para 2.23), which suggest that rehabilitation and improve-
ments to existing tanks will have an appreciable impact on agricultural
production in the dry zone, in particular through assuring supplies during the



- 10 -
main maha season. If water management programs can be implemented to make
best use of the maha rains, then significant supplies in some years can be
transferred for irrigation in yala, especially in the higher rainfall areas
of the intermediate zone.  While this provides a reasonable basis for justify-
ing the fairly modest rehabilitation works proposed, a more accurate assess-
ment of irrigation potential requires further investigation to establish the
implications of the wide range of conditions under which the tanks are oper-
ated. DA has already initiated hydrologic studies in anticipation of the VIR
project and these will be supported during the course of the project's
implementation.
Agricultural Development
2.11      Settlement Pattern.  In the typical village, the traditional purana
(or permanently bunded paddy land) is bordered by akarawela--irrigable land
that has been more recently cleared (sometimes under official village expan-
sion programs) and to which irrigation is extended in a wet year. Beyond
the akarawela, further paddy areas may exist. These are primarily rainfed
(olagama) but may receive drainage water and be partially irrigated when water
is available. Purana lands have prior right to the tank's supplies with the
akarawela next in line. Given this tendency to develop land beyond the tank's
original command, it is unusual in the dry zone for even purana land to receive
significant yala supplies, while maha supplies themselves may have become
less reliable as demands on the available storage increase. In the interme-
diate zone, yala cultivation is more important mainly because of the more
favorable rainfall pattern but also because higher settlement densities have
limited the extent to which additional land can be developed. Beyond the
command of the tank or anicut lie the house plots and gardens, upland cropping
areas and (in the intermediate zone) tree crop plantations (especially coco-
nuts). Further afield and often a long way from the village lies the chena
land.
2.12      Land Tenure.  Land tenure tends to mirror this settlement pattern.
Owner occupiers predominate on the purana land, especially in the long-settled,
more densely-populated areas, while akarawela is more often allotted by Gov-
ernment under the Land Development Ordinance (LDO), especially in the less
populated districts of the dry zone. Encroachments are also significant,
particularly in chena areas. GOSL's policy is to regularize encroachments
(the unauthorized cultivation of state land), subject to certain criteria
and limits, and this will tend to stabilize overall agricultural activity.
Sharecropping is relatively infrequent on minor tank schemes, although there
is some evidence that cash constraints and other factors are leading to the
spread of leasing arrangements.
2.13      Size of Holding and Fragmentation.  Average paddy holdings range
from as low as 0.4-0.6 ha (1.0-1.5 acres) in the wet zone to perhaps 2 ha (5
acres) or more in the less populated areas of the northern dry zone. Of the
nine districts covered by the UP survey, it was only in the intermediate zone
districts of Kurunegala and Monaragala that less than 25% of the area was
occupied by farms above 2 ha in extent, while average operational holdings of
3.6 ha and 4.8 ha were registered in Vavuniya and Mannar respectively. These
latter estimates are, however, probably greatly overstated. Fragmentation



- 11 -
of paddy lands is another common feature. This is often associated with the
distinction between purana, akarawela and oligama lands, and reflects the
history and social cohesion of the traditional village (with each family
participating in successive new developments). This pattern distributes risks
and allows relatively equitable access to the communal resources of the tank.
The UP survey (excluding Anuradhapura) suggests an average of about 2.7 plots
per owner.
2.14      Cropping systems and intensities.  Cultivation of short duration
upland crops (4 months or less) is possible under rainfed conditions in maha.
In the intermediate zone, rainfed yala cultivation of short-term, drought-
resistant crops such as sesame may also occasionally be possible. Cultivation
of wetland rice is, even in maha, more problematic. Ten inches of rain are
generally required for wetland preparation and weed control, so that sowing or
transplanting is not possible before late-October/November, being frequently
delayed until December or even January. Since the rains cease in January,
late-sown crops and late-maturing varieties have to be completed with supple-
mentary irrigation. During yala, rice cannot be grown without irrigation
except in the wet zone.
2.15       Village irrigation schemes have therefore been developed to provide
security to the subsistence rice crop. Paddy is the universal crop during
maha and is greatly preferred during yala. Where water is scarce, and rice
cultivation difficult, small areas of irrigated subsidiary crops are sometimes
grown during yala, while vegetable cultivation based on dugwells and/or
seepage from the tank may also occur on a small scale. Under the betma
system, rights to cultivation of purana land during yala are temporarily
distributed in relation to the stored water available at the end of maha.
Such a system is an impressive way of ensuring equity, but favors yala paddy
cultivation over the more extensive cultivation of subsidiary crops. In
the intermediate and wet zones, yala cultivation is much more prevalent, and
in some mid-county and up-county areas, vegetable cultivation is increasing
in significance at the expense of paddy. Overall intensities under minor
irrigation schemes vary considerably from scheme-to-scheme and year-to-year
(Annex 1, Table 3), but given the evidence available, they seem likely to
have the following broad orders of magnitude:
Maha             Yala             Total
Wet zone               90-95%           80-90%           170-185%
Intermediate Zone      80-90%           20-50%           100-150%
Dry Zone               65-90%            0-15%            65-105%
2.16      An important feature of rainfall uncertainties is the prevalence
of crop failures. These can be either full or partial and are reflected in
both harvested areas and yields. Annex 1, Table 4 summarizes published data
on crop failure for the last five years. For Sri Lanka as a whole, they
averaged 6% for minor irrigation in maha and 13% in yala. The rates of
failure can, however, be significantly greater in the dry zone.



- 12 -
2.17      Yields.  Crop yields are generally low for all crops including paddy.
All-island paddy yields under minor irrigation average about 45-55 bushels/acre
during maha (2,400-2,800 kg/ha) and perhaps 40-50 bushels/acre during yala
(2,000-2,600 kg/ha). The difference between the two seasons reflects adequacy
of water supplies since, other things being equal, yields in the yala season
would be higher due to more favourable growing conditions. Yields in the
project area are similar to these national average. They may be higher in the
dry and intermediate zones than in the wet zone, but considerable variations
occur from district to district. Schemes which require rehabilitation will--
other things being equal--tend to have lower-than-average yields.
Production Constraints and Risks
2.18      The allocation of effort between irrigated and upland crops, the
timing of cultivation, and the technologies that farmers adopt, are related
to a complex of inter-acting factors that include: (i) the variability of,
and risks associated with, rainfall; (ii) the availability of cash and labor;
(iii) the farm power situation; and (iv) the farmer's ability to change his
practices given his level of knowledge and his inter-dependence with others.
These combine in a way which leads the farmer to give attention first to
upland and chena cultivation, and only subsequently to paddy cultivation which
is usually postponed until well into maha. As a result, the early maha rains
are not fully utilized for paddy and the crop matures late in March/April,
long after the maha rains have ended. From January onwards, the paddy crop
requires a full supply of irrigation water and, as a result, most tanks
deplete either before the irrigation season is over, thus endangering the
crop, or at best are fully depleted by the end of the maha crop. This situa-
tion has been further aggravated by the continuous expansion of the developed
area below the tank and by the deterioration in the irrigation facilities.
Since rainfall alone is insufficient to support a yala crop, and runoff is
generally insignificant (see para 2.09), rainfall in yala (200-250 mm) is
not utilized at all. The overall effect is to reduce intensities below the
potential represented by the available water resources, while the risks
associated with uncertain water supplies discourage the adoption of high
yielding technologies.
2.19      The Risks Associated with Rainfall.  Rainfed crops must be sown
early since the rains cease in about mid-January and the chances of crop
failure increase as sowing is delayed. In contrast, the risks associated with
irrigated paddy are reduced by a delay in cultivation. If rice is sown at the
beginning of the season before the tank has filled, it is grown essentially
under rainfed conditions, subject to the same periods of moisture stress as
upland crops but even more liable to damage due to its greater sensitivity.
Since great variations in stored water occur as a result of rainfall vari-
ability, a farmer who plants early cannot be certain that there will be
adequate irrigation water available from the tank to mature his rice crop.
If, however, he waits with his sowing operations until the tank has filled
(normally December), he can be certain that there is a sufficient supply to
ensure survival of his crop even without further rainfall. In the event that
the tank does not fill, the planted area can be adjusted accordingly and in
particular akarawela and olagama lands can be left fallow. By reducing the
risk of crop failure, the farmer is more willing to finance the substantial



- 13 -
outlays required for paddy cultivation. Furthermore, such outlays tend to be
lower if planting is delayed since farm power requirements and labor for
weeding are both reduced if sufficient water is available (from prior rain-
fall or the tank) to flood the land.
2.20      Farm Power.  Early cultivation under dry or semi-wet conditions
requires substantially more power than mudland preparation. Although farm
power availability has much improved over the last few years due to the rapid
introduction of farm tractors, running costs and hire charges for tractors
have risen rapidly. Inevitably, farmers adjust by reducing power require-
ments, chiefly by "trading" water supplies for power. This trade-off is an
important one. While cash outlays per acre of crop may be reduced by such
practices, they also contribute substantially to the failure to exploit the
full potential of the overall water resources available.
2.21      Weed Control.  Weeds are a major problem under both irrigated and
rainfed conditions. Cultivation practices have, therefore, evolved to minimize
weed competition at least cost to the farmer's available resources of labor
and power. Chena land is abandoned after at most two seasons, with weed
growth as much as declining fertility responsible for this rapid rotation.  In
paddy areas, farmers use standing water to control weeds. Not only does this
encourage delays in planting but it is also an important contributing factor
to the practice of continuous irrigation based on field-to-field flows which
leads to significant waste and the early depletion of the tank.
Status of Water Mlanagement in Sri Lanka
2.22      Irrigation practices adopted on minor schemes in Sri Lanka appear in
many respects to be wasteful. 1/ It must be recognized, however, that they
represent a largely rational response by the individual farmer to the risks he
faces and to the trade-offs possible between water on the one hand and the
costs of farm power, labor, and agricultural inputs on the other. Given the
interdependence of farmers within the command area, individuals cannot affect
significant improvements on their own and changes must be introduced on the
basis of complete schemes. Such changes are unlikely to emerge without
stimulus from outside, and are unlikely to be successful if they fail to
respond to the constraints on farmer behavior outlined above.
1/   Although not as wasteful as in some major schemes for which water diver-
sions as high as 20 ac ft/acre have been registered and where they are
commonly as high as 6-8 ac ft/acre. The problem of excessive water use
in major schemes is being tackled under a major water management project
implemented by the Department of Irrigation with USAID assistance in the
Gal Oya scheme, and under the IDA-supported Tank Irrigation Modernization
Project for five major tanks in the northern dry zone. Water management
programs also feature in the Mahaweli areas. W4hile minor schemes face
different problems, these ongoing programs may nevertheless have signi-
ficant implications for the minor irrigation sector.



- 14 -
2.23      Numerous studies on water management are available in Sri Lanka,
mainly focussed on major schemes. Most recommend the introduction of short-
season varieties and early cultivation during maha to make better use of the
available rainfall. Experience at Walagambahuwa and elsewhere has shown that
a paddy crop sown with the early rains in October can in most years survive
on rainfall until the end of December. Since a four month variety sown in
October matures in February, only 1-1/2 to 2 months of irrigation from
the tank is required compared to 3 to 4 months for a late sown crop. Storage
provides therefore more certain protection for the completion of the maha
crop, and water is more likely to be available for yala. The introduction of
irrigated upland crops in yala would then make the best use of the limited
water supplies since inevitably these will be insufficient in most minor
schemes for a full yala rice crop.
2.24      The general objectives of water management programs are therefore
well established. To encourage the wider adoption of such practices, guide-
lines have been issued by the GOSL authorities which emphasize the efficient
use of rainfall through early planting and the adoption of short season
varieties (para 2.27). 1/ 2/ A more systematic approach to water management
forms an important element of the VIR project, which it is hoped will
strengthen DAS support for minor irrigation (para 3.14).
Agricultural Institutions
2.25      Sri Lanka's agriculture is served by a profusion of government insti-
tutions and organizations at the national, district, and local levels. About
ten ministries are directly or indirectly involved with agricultural adminis-
tration. The most important of these for the project are:
(a) The Ministry of Lands and Land Development (MLDD) which is
responsible for irrigation development outside special areas;
the operation and maintenance of major irrigation schemes;
land settlement and administration; and forestry.
(b) The Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research (MADR)
which is responsible for promoting field crop production
(including rice and subsidiary crops) and minor export crops.
2.26      The Department of Irrigation (DI) in the MLDD is responsible for all
irrigation and drainage development outside the areas under the authority of
the Mahaweli and River Valley Development Boards and for the operation and
management of all schemes over 200 acres in extent. In addition to irrigation
works financed under its own budget, it is also responsible for implementing
irrigation under the decentralized budget and the district rural development
1/  Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research, and Ilinistry of Lands
and Land Development: "Cultivation Timetable", June 1980.
2/   Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research:  Cultivation Rules
Formed Under Section 42(i) of the Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979.



- 15 -
programs. It will be responsible for the main civil works component of the
VIR project and for overall project coordination under the Project Steering
Committee.
2.27      The Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) in the MADR is respon-
sible, under the Agrarian Services Act of 1979, for a wide range of activities
concerned with agrarian management, servicing of farmers, coordination of
Government agencies and increasing agricultural productivity. It is charged
with the maintenance of the Agricultural Lands Register, the administration
of tenancy regulations, the organization of cultivation meetings, the supply
and distribution of agricultural inputs, and the operation and maintenance of
minor irrigation works. It maintains a network of 536 Agrarian Service (AS)
centers throughout the country, organized on a district basis with district
offices under the direction of an Assistant Commissioner (Annex 2, Chart 2).
An AS Committee, appointed by the Commissioner or his deputies, is associated
with each AS center and includes both Government officials from relevant
departments and farmer representatives. A DAS official serves as secretary to
the committee and is supported by approximately ten COs who live in the villages
(being locally recruited) and who are responsible for direct contact with the
farmers. The Centers themselves represent a focus for the distribution of
agricultural inputs, and provide office space for other Government agencies.
2.28      The DAS's role in the operation of minor irrigation is at present
primarily fulfilled by the COs and other DAS local staff. They arrange for
the election of village irrigation headmen, organize cultivation meetings in
association with the farmers, and promote the implementation of agreed culti-
vation timetables together with the extension service. In addition, however,
DAS employs a staff of technical officers whose responsibilities have been
largely confined to minor irrigation construction and repairs. A budget is
provided annually to DAS for this purpose (Rs 10 million for 1981). Priorities
are established in association with the COs, AS committees and the District
Administration, and the actual work is carried out almost entirely by small
scale labor contractors. Responsibility for minor irrigation was returned to
DAS fairly recently and the department has yet to build up its full complement
of experienced staff.
2.29      The Department of Agriculture (DA) in the MADR is responsible for
research and promotional activities concerned with field crops, as well as for
agricultural training. The Department is receiving IDA support in strengthen-
ing its activities through the Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
(AEAR) Project (Credit No. 931-CE).
2.30      The DA conducts research on paddy, other annual field crops, and
minor export (tree) crops. It maintains a Central Rice Experiment Station,
a Minor Export Crops Research Institute, and a network of five Regional
Research Centers (RRCs) and twelve branch stations. Research at the
Walagambahuwa tank settlement is undertaken by DA staff based at the Maha
Illuppallama Regional Research Center. Sri Lanka has a strong rice breeding
program, and local rice HYVs were widely adopted by farmers well before IRRI
varieties were developed. However, only in recent years has DA stepped up
research on other field crops suitable for irrigated agriculture. National
Coordinated Research Programs have been launched for a number of crops, in
association with international and bilateral research organizations. New



- 16 -
varieties of such crops as chillies, green gram, black gram, pigeon pea
(dhal), and cowpea should be forthcoming over the next few years. Under the
AEAR project, an adaptive research program incorporating trials on farmers'
fields is being developed, based on the Regional Research Centers and a
network of 24 Adaptive Research Centers. These will be staffed to cover all
Sri Lanka, and will be further supplemented by the use of mobile research
teams.
2.31      The Extension Division of DA has about 2,300 field officers at
District, Division and local levels, and in addition provides direct support
to a number of other agencies including the Mahaweli Development Authority.
The AEAR project envisages the rationalization of the current extension
service through the establishment of a unified "Training and Visit" (T&V)
extension system for all crops (excluding rubber and tea) and animal husbandry
(excluding veterinary and breed improvement services). The existing number of
extension staff is being increased by a total of 1,260 (960 field level
workers, 103 agricultural instructors, 139 subject-matter specialists and 56
agricultural officers). This would bring down the number of farm families per
field extension worker from 1,200 to about 600. The organization and staffing
being established under the AEAR project would complement the rehabilitation
works provided under the VIR project and no additional support is proposed.
Inputs and Services
2.32      The policy changes introduced by the present government have had
as one of their major objectives the liberalization of domestic trade, and
the promotion of the private sector. This has affected both inputs and the
marketing of outputs, and has greatly expanded the alternatives open to the
farmer. Nevertheless, Government subsidies on inputs and procurement policies
for outputs continue to affect the farmer's position.
2.33      Agricultural Input Supplies.  Fertilizer is imported by the Ceylon
Fertilizer Corporation, and in very small quantities by the private sector,
and is distributed through multipurpose cooperatives, AS centers and (increas-
ingly) private traders. Fertilizer consumption for paddy has recently grown
significantly stimulated by the liberalization of trade and the introduction
of a subsidy in September 1979 (which on urea was as high as 85% of the cif
price). This subsidy has recently been sharply reduced, following the
decision to limit the overall financial burden in 1981 to Rs 1,000 M and price
increases of up to 100% have occurred. Paddy prices have, however, also risen
and remain favorable for fertilizer use. Fertilizer availability will be
strengthened with the completion of the urea plant now under construction, and
with the development of CFC's network of regional stores. Provided overall
price incentives are maintained, and provided trade liberalization continues,
it seems unlikely that fertilizer availability will represent a significant
production constraint. Agro-chemicals are imported by the private sector as
well as by the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation. Pesticides and herbicides are
usually formulated locally and distributed through a well developed network of
private dealers. Although the Government controls the range of formulations,
there is a need for more effective communication with the trade to ensure
timely availability of adequate quantities of the required chemicals. About
10-15% of the total annual requirement of paddy seed is produced by DA on
its 42 seed farms and in conjunction with private certified seed growers.



- 17 -
Improved seed production has received support from IDA (Cr. 595-CE) as well as
bilateral sources. It is unlikely, however, that substantial improvements in
the supply of seed for field crops other than rice will occur in the near
future.
2.34      Agricultural Credit.  Institutional credit is handled primarily by
the two state-owned commercial banks, the Peoples Bank (PB) and the Bank of
Ceylon (BC). PB operates through Multi-purpose Cooperative Societies and
their banking divisions called Rural Banks. BC operates directly, in partic-
ular through its AS center branches. National agricultural credit policy is
established by a Rural Credit Advisory Board, chaired by the Governor of the
Central Bank, with the Central Bank's Department of Rural Credit functioning
as the secretariat.
2.35      The bulk of lending is short-term (6 months) production credit at
a 9% interest. Such loans are available for paddy and most subsidiary crops,
(for a maximum of 4 ha of paddy and 2 ha of subsidiary crops), and are dis-
bursed partly in kind and partly in cash. Medium-term loans are also avail-
able from both banks for purchase of machinery and equipment at an annual
interest rate of 14%, repayable over periods from 3 to 5 years. Restrietions
on obtaining these loans vary with downpayment, but generally require that the
borrower owns at least 1.2 ha of cultivable land and has the joint guarantee
of the dealer and a close relative. High default rates on agricultural loans
are a serious problem. The situation was aggravated during maha 1977/78 when
GOSL instructed the banks to relax lending criteria. To improve loan recovery,
lending criteria were tightened in 1979, leading to a large fall in the
volume of lending. The banks are trying to regularize the position, but
the overall situation remains somewhat unsatisfactory, although it is being
tackled with support from an ADB credit.
2.36      Crop insurance is available to farmers under the 1973 Agricultural
Insurance Law and is designed to indemnify farmers against loss, stabilize
farm income, and promote agricultural production. It is in theory compulsory
for those receiving official credit for paddy but can be extended to other
crops and livestock. The scheme has been effective only to a limited extent
although in principle it could play a significant role in minor irrigation
schemes for which the uncertainties and risks of paddy cultivation are rela-
tively great.
2.37      Marketing and Processing.  GOSL operates a guaranteed price scheme
(GPS) for paddy, as well as for a number of other crops such as pulses and
coarse grains. 1/ The operation of the GPS system is discussed in Chapter VI.
Most paddy is milled in the private sector, either directly or on behalf of
the PMB. Private investment in storage facilities appears to have lagged
behind its expanding role in trading, and the PMB will continue to play an
important role in stabilizing seasonal price fluctuations. Considerable
expansion in PMB storage facilities is currently under way, assisted by USAID.
1/   GOSL pricing policy is discussed in Volume II of the 1980 Economic Report:
"Sri Lanka: Key Development Issues in the 1980s - Agricultural Producer
Incentives."



- 18 -
Fluctuations in the price of field crops have been even more pronounced than
those for paddy, reflecting the limited role that the PMB has so far played
in the marketing of these crops. Nevertheless, major upward adjustments to
the price of flour and other factors appear to be contributing to a signifi-
cant recovery in production, and further increases can be expected if programs
to promote irrigated yala cropping of these crops prove successful.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01       The project aims to increase agricultural production and farmer
incomes in existing village irrigation schemes by (i) financing the rehabil-
itation of village tanks and anicuts over a five year period (1981-85); (ii)
strengthening the major government institutions involved in village irrigation;
(iii) initiating a systematic water management program; and (iv) establishing
evaluation programs designed to assist project implementation and the prepara-
tion of further programs in the village irrigation sector.
Summary of Project Features
3.02 (a) Civil works component
(i) Rehabilitation of about 1,200 village irrigation schemes
by the Department of Irrigation, including repairs to and
remodelling of tank bunds, sluices, spillways, anicuts
and irrigation distribution systems, including the pro-
vision of appropriate field structures;
(ii) Modernization of working schemes by the Department of
Agrarian Services, with a view to facilitating the
introduction of water management programs; and
(iii) Provision of survey, drawing, construction, maintenance
and quality control equipment in support of the civil
works program, together with the necessary transport
vehicles.
(b) Operation and Maintenance Components
(i) Strengthening of DAS's capacity to service the opera-
tion and maintenance of minor irrigation through
incremental staff and the provision of office,
survey and construction equipment, and transport
vehicles;
(ii) Introduction of systematic water managemaent programs
on project schemes; and



- 19 -
(iii) Support for ongoing training programs in basic tech-
nical skills as well as for new water management
training programs to be provided at the I4aha
Illuppallama Research Institute.
(c) Project Evaluation and Investigations
(i) Monitoring of project impact on agricultural production
by DAS field staff, and the Sri Lankan Freedom from
Hfunger Campaign (FFHC), with support from the Department
of Census and Statistics (DCS) to check the yield data
collected by DAS staff;
(ii) Systematic data collection and evaluation programs by
the Land and Water Use Division of the Department of
Agriculture, covering the hydrology of village tanks,
soils, land use and related information; and
(iii) Regular socio-economic evaluation studies of project
impact by the University of Peradeniya as a basis for
introducing modifications to project design during proj-
ect implementation and to assist in further planning.
Civil Works
3.03      Conditions vary widely, from schemes so damaged that they are aban-
doned to those that are operating but for which rehabilitation is desirable,
either to maintain or to increase production. Despite this variation, certain
features of rehabilitation would be common to most schemes:
(a)  Investigations and designs, including hydrological studies to
establish the catchment area, runoff and water yields, surveys
of the tank bed to determine present and potential reservoir
capacity; surveys of the command area under the tank for
agricultural and water management planning; designs of the
tank bund (including remodelling and/or raising), spillway,
sluice and canal structures; and cost estimates of the com-
plete rehabilitation works;
(b)  Clearing the tank bund and borrow areas; scarifying, stripping
and benching of the bund; earthwork to build up the bund to
the designed section; protective turfing for the rebuilt
reaches of the tank bund; and the gravelling of embankments
used as farm or access roads;
(c)  Remodelling of the spillway and the provision of a crest
wall;
(d)  Replacement of junction block-type sluices with tower-type
sluices using Hume pipes and screw hoist cast iron gates;



- 20 -
(e) Alignment of the main canals and field channels; desilting,
re-sectioning and improving the main supply channels by the
DI and the field channel system by the farmers with the
advice of DAS; and the rehabilitation or provision, as
appropriate, of control structures, drainage works, turnout
structures and measuring devices.
An assurance has been obtained that all plans and designs for facilities
provided under the project, including those for water management, would be
in accordance with specifications and guidelines acceptable to IDA. Initial
sets of guidelines for (i) planning and designing, (ii) maintenance, and
(iii) implementation of water management programs have been prepared and
discussed with the GOSL authorities.
3.04      Construction Program.  The civil works component to be implemented
by the DI represents essentially a five year time slice of the ongoing program
for rehabilitation of minor irrigation works which was initiated in 1980.
An analysis of 375 preliminary estimates prepared by the DI for this program
is given in Annex 2, Table 2. After excluding those schemes which failed to
meet the agreed cost criterion (Annex 4), the following characteristics emerge
(at 1980 prices):
Average command area:       26.5 ha approx. (65 acres)
Average cost per acre:    Rs 4,150
Average cost per scheme:  Rs 270,000
3.05      These averages have been used to estimate the approximate number
of schemes to be implemented under the DI component of the project, taking
into account the allocations for the project under the revised five year
investment program 1/ and expected price increases. The resulting program
is presented in Table 3.1, with further amplification given in Annex 3,
Table 2.
Table 3.1: APPROXIMATE PROGRAM OF REHABILITATION WORKS BY
THE DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  Total
Surveys & Investigations (no.)         150   160   340   420   400    -   1,420
Schemes Rehabilitated (no.)             -      65   160   250   360   365  1,200
Command Area Rehabilitated (ha)         -  1,700 4,200 6,550 9,450 9,600 31,500
3.06      The tentative program proposed would rehabilitate about 1,200
schemes with a total command area of about 31,500 ha (78,000 acres) over the
period 1981-85. Annex 2, Table 1 provides a provisional distribution of the
civil works program by district. This distribution is based on: (i) the
total number of schemes in each district with a command area between 20-200
acres; (ii) their present condition; (iii) other village irrigation rehabili-
tation programs being implemented or planned; and (iv) the capacity of each
1/   The five year program was revised in early 1981 to take into account
the budget cuts proposed for 1981 and the resource outlook for the
period 1981-85.



- 21 -
DI Range office to undertake additional work. The IDA-supported Kurunegala
Rural Development project is scheduled for completion in 1983. A substantial
program under the VIR project for this important district is proposed for the
period 1983-85, and this accounts for a major part of the increase in the
number of schemes in the latter years. Expenditures on minor irrigation in
Puttalam and Matale under the RD-II project will peak in 1983, so that their
inclusion in the VIR project would be delayed until 1984. The RD project in
Hambantota is being supported by Norad and commitments have been made for the
period up to 1982. A modest program under the VIR project for Hambantota is
proposed for 1983-85.
3.07      Actual costs of individual schemes can vary greatly.  The number of
schemes that can be financed within the funds allocated may therefore differ
from the tentative estimate of 1,200 presented in Table 3.1. Similarly, the
allocation by district may vary depending on the performance of each DI Range
office. The proposed monitoring and evaluation studies should permit the
adoption of a flexible approach and no difficulty is envisaged in adjusting
the annual construction program. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL
that IDA will be consulted annually to consider any revisions that may be
necessary.
3.08      Highest priority ought to be given to schemes providing the greatest
economic returns to improvements and repairs, full account being also taken
of any interactions between neighboring schemes in the same catchment. For
instance, first priority should be given to those schemes out of use due
to recent damage but which could be fully restored with relatively little
investment or those for which major damage is likely within a few years. In
contrast, long abandoned schemes that would require almost complete reconstruc-
tion or those which are comparatively "safe" should be given lower priority.
Given their large number, however, it would be impracticable to conduct a full
economic evaluation of each and every scheme. Following the precedent estab-
lished by previous rural development projects, 1/ criteria have therefore
been agreed in an attempt to ensure the selection of reasonably dependable
schemes. These criteria are based on current cost data and the most recent
design procedures of the DI for village tanks, taking into account all avail-
able hydrologic information. 2/ The criteria, given in Annex 4, will be
kept under review during project implementation, particularly in view of the
results of the Physical Resource Evaluation Study (para 5.23).
3.09      Status of Design.  A tentative list of 375 possible schemes was
presented to the appraisal mission in September 1980. Of these, a few had
been taken to the stage of final designs but for the majority only preliminary
estimates were available (Annex 2, Table 2). The DI had scheduled a program
1/   An initial set of criteria was established under the Kurunegala Rural
Development project (see the SAR, Report No. 2292a-CE). Revised criteria
have recently been agreed during negotiations for the Rural Development
II project (Matale and Puttalam districts).
2/   Irrigation Department Technical Note No. 2 "Design of Embankments for
Village Tanks and Medium Reservoirs," 1980.



- 22 -
of detailed designs for about 150 schemes in preparation for the 1981 program.
Although some delays have occurred, it is understood that more than enough
progress has been made to ensure the satisfactory implementation of the
proposed 1981 program (about 65 schemes - Table 3.1). To ensure that this
momentum is maintained the DI has relaxed overtime, travel and related
restrictions specifically for the investigation and design of minor schemes.
Subject to the success of this measure during the current year, it is proposed
that it should be extended in future years.
3.10      Construction Methods.  For most tank projects, earthwork on the bund
represents the majority of project costs. In carrying out the civil works
program, major emphasis would therefore be placed on minimizing the earthwork
required. Guidelines for carrying out the civil works program, and for
evaluating design alternatives, have been issued to DI field staff. Every
effort would be made to complete the rehabilitation cycle over a period of
two years, with surveys and investigations completed in the first year and the
rehabilitation works themselves within the following construction season. The
emphasis in carrying out the civil works program would be on labor intensive
methods. Where possible, labor contractors would be employed, and this would
be the predominant method of construction in districts where adequate labor is
available. Excavation and earthwork involved in rehabilitation of the field
channel distribution system would be undertaken using farmer labor on a
voluntary basis.
3.11      In some districts, labor is relatively scarce and more expensive,
and the labor contracting industry less developed. Contractors with machinery
are available, but some additional machinery would be required to ensure
expeditious completion of the work in the northern dry zone (Mlannar,
Mullaitivu, Trincomalee and Vavuniya) and the south east (Badulla, Monaragala
and Hambantota). For those schemes to be rehabilitated with machinery provided
under the project, a balanced unit of construction equipment will be supplied,
giving maneuverability in narrow locations, and adapted to the short leads and
lifts normally involved (Annex 3, Table 3). The units will be concentrated on
those schemes involving relatively large amounts of earthwork, particularly in
the northern dry zone where the terrain is gently undulating and bunds tend to
be long. To the extent possible, tanks would be selected in clusters to
facilitate the maximum utilization of construction machinery and to minimize
transportation time. Although the units would be allocated on a district
basis, they would move between districts in response to the workload and to
ensure their full utilization. It has been assumed that these construction
units would be sufficient for approximately 250 schemes over the period
1981-85, equivalent to about 20% of the total. Taking into account the
employment of contractor machinery in a number of districts, it has been
assumed that 40% of all the work undertaken will be by machinery, with the
balance undertaken by labor-intensive operations.
3.12      Supporting equipment and services.  In addition to construction
equipment, the project would provide DI with transport vehicles for supervi-
sion and investigations; surveying and drawing equipment for carrying out the
expanded program of surveys and designs; supplementary workshop equipment to
strengthen the DI's equipment repair and maintenance capacity; and seven



- 23 -
quality control field laboratories. The construction equipment and transport
vehicles will be maintained at two departmental workshops, at Rambawa in
Anuradhapura (being established under the IDA-supported Tank Irrigation
Modernization Project Credit No. 666-CE) and at Amparai, respectively. Some
additional workshop equipment to ensure mobility and to account for the
special requirements of the project will be provided (Annex 3, Table 5). To
ensure proper quality control during construction, it has been agreed that
seven field laboratories should be established to cover all the districts
involved in the project. Most districts are at present dependent on staff
and testing equipment from the DI's head office in Colombo, and only minimal
quality control is maintained for village tank work. A small field laboratory
has, however, been set up in Kurunegala and a similar approach is to be
followed elsewhere in the project area. In addition to providing physical
facilities and equipment, the project provides for incremental staff and
related costs incurred by the DI and the Ministry of Lands and Land Development.
3.13      Normal maintenance of the facilities rehabilitated under the project
would be the responsibility of the farmers, supported by DAS. However, DI
would ensure satisfactory performance of the headworks and structures rehabil-
itated under the project for a period of two years.
Water Management and Maintenance
3.14      The project would strengthen the minor irrigation activities of DAS
to undertake three major tasks: (i) the planning and implementation of water
management programs on selected schemes; (ii) the operation of a new water
management service to liase with farmers and to maintain agreed water manage-
ment programs; and (iii) the continuation of the present program of repair and
maintenance.
3.15      Water Management.  Water management programs would be introduced
on tanks to be rehabilitated under the project and on a number of neighboring
(operating) schemes. The aim would be to make optimum use of the available
water resources comprising both rainfall and stored water. In the early
years, the program would be applied in accordance with the evolving capacity
of the new DAS organization. The extent to which specific features of the
program are introduced would vary, depending, for instance, on the size of
the scheme, the number of farmers involved and the potential for a yala crop.
In general, the program would consist of the following:
(a) Construction of field channels with control structures;
(b) Introduction of a rotational water supply (RWS) system
where appropriate;
(c) Plowing and sowing operations as early as possible in
maha;
(d) Introduction of after-harvest plowing following either the
maha or yala crop so as to keep the soil open for easier
rainfall infiltration and plowing early in the following
maha season;



- 24 -
(e)  Operation of the sluice to ensure stored water is used only
to supplement rainfall during the maha and yala, with the
sluice closed when irrigation requirements can be met by
rain;
(f)  Closure of the sluice at night to prevent night irrigation;
(g)  Introduction of a standby rationing system when stored water
supplies fall short of normal requirements;
(h)  Promotion of short-duration paddy varieties to reduce water
requirements and ensure an early harvest; and
(i)  Promotion of irrigated upland crops during the yala wherever
soils permit.
3.16       A preliminary water management plan would be prepared before the
rehabilitation works are carried out so as to ensure that physical improve-
ments are consistent with the operational procedures to be implemented. This
program would be prepared by DAS Agricultural Planning Teams, comprising an
agriculturist (seconded from the DA) and a technical assistant (TA). Assur-
ances have been obtained from GOSL that twelve such planning teams wouild be
appointed by December 31, 1981. They would work closely with the farmers, the
DI and other Government officials. Implementation and further adaptation of
the water management program would be the responsibility of the farmers under
the elected village irrigation headman, supported by regular visits and
technical guidance from DAS officials to be called the "tank supervisors."
Given the variability from scheme-to-scheme, and in rainfall conditions
from year-to-year, the irrigation headman and tank supervisor would be given
guidance on procedures for reacting to such changing circumstances without
undermining the basic logic and equity of the water management program (see
Chapter 5).
3.17      Staff and Training.  The number and experience of the technical
assistants in the department's ongoing repair and maintenance program are
inadequate, while water management will comprise a largely new activity.
TAs receive basic technical training at Moratuwa University, south of Colombo,
and at the Hardy Institute in Amparai, and these DAS training programs would
be supported under the project. In addition, a new training program in water
management for DAS staff charged with the implementation of the proposed
program would be initiated by the DA at the Maha Illuppallama Research Insti-
tute. Cooperation and consistency between DI and DAS training should be
ensured. Emphasis in DAS training will be on practical issues and extensive
field practice on neighboring tanks in Anuradhapura and Kurunegala will be
provided.
3.18      Coverage of the Water Management Program.  In the early years,
schemes would be selected in convenient locations to facilitate supervision
by the limited DAS staff, the numbers so selected being determined by the
capacity of the DAS organization. For other rehabilitated schemes, the water
management improvements proposed (e.g., early plowing, closure of the sluice
when it rains, etc.) would be implemented by the farmers themselves with the
assistance of the COs and extension personnel. Working tanks located close to
those rehabilitated under the project could, however, be included in the water



- 25 -
management program. Funds would be provided to enable DAS to undertake the
limited civil works necessary to modernize such tanks so that the implementa-
tion of the water management program can proceed in a flexible, appropriate
and efficient manner.  It is assumed that the first such modernization proj-
ects would be implemented in 1983, allowing time for the DAS water management
organization to be established and to gain experience on the projects reha-
bilitated by the DI civil works program. For the purpose of estimating
costs, Rs 50,000 has been allowed per scheme (at 1980 prices) to cover the
reconstruction of the distribution system (consisting of supply and field
channels) for the introduction of water management, as well as any minor
repairs or improvements necessary to the headworks. It is assumed that a
total of about 500 schemes will be modernized under the DAS program during
the period 1983-85.
3.19      DAS would also continue to be responsible for undertaking maintenance
and repair work where the work involved is beyond the capacity of the farmers,
but insufficient to justify a full rehabilitation project by the DI. The
normal limit for such minor works has recently been increased from Rs 50,000
to Rs 100,000 per scheme but, in most cases, the total cost is considerably
less than this limit. The modernization of operating tanks prior to the
introduction of water management would be undertaken by the staff involved
in this ongoing program of repair and maintenance.
3.20      DAS capability to respond to emergencies (e.g., threat of a bund
breaking) would also be strengthened under the project by the provision of
limited construction equipment to be based at regional offices and under the
control of the regional engineer (para 5.07) and maintained at the DI work-
shops to be strengthened under the project. DI quality control field units
would provide quality control support to DAS repair and maintenance work,
in particular where significant earthwork on the bund is involved.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
4.01      Total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at
Rs 784 million (US$43.6 million), with a foreign exchange component of about
22%. Taxes and duties are waived on machinery imported by the public sector.
Base cost estimates are at mid-1980 prices, and exclude the contribution
farmers are expected to make in construction of the field channel system (see
para 3.03(h)). Price contingencies equivalent to 68% of base costs have been
allowed at the annual rates of inflation given in the footnote to Table 4.1.
The rapid rates of inflation envisaged in these estimates reflect current
trends. The overall costs of the project have been adjusted to correspond to
the allocations in GOSL's Medium-Term Public Investment Program established
in January 1981 but the divisibility of the civil works program is such that
there should be no difficulty in adjusting the annual program to take into
account any unforeseen limitation of funds. Table 4.1 and Annex 3, Table 1
present summary cost estimates, and details are available in the project file.



- 26 -
Financing
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million would finance approximately
69% of project costs, equivalent to 100% of foreign costs and 60% of local
costs. The remaining funds (Rs 244 million or US$13.6 million) would be
provided by GOSL. The IDA share reflects the resource constraints facing
Sri Lanka, the efforts the government is making to meet these constraints
(e.g. by cut-backs in the overall investment program which also affected the
VIR project) and the social priority attached to the project. The estimated
schedule of expenditures is given in Annex 3, Table 1. The project would
include up to US$1.0 M of retroactive financing for eligible project expendi-
tures incurred from October 1980 onwards, to facilitate the smooth implementa-
tion of the 1981 program, and to ensure the early launching of the monitoring
and evaluation exercise.
Procurement
4.03      Equipment and vehicles with an estimated cif cost of US$2.5 million
will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA guidelines. A preference limit of 15% of the cif price of imported
goods would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of the bids.
Due to strong individual preferences, motorcycles and bicycles supplied to DAS
staff would be purchased by the individuals concerned. 1/ Small off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$20,000 each, for which international tendering is
impracticable, would be procured after comparing prices from not less than
three independent suppliers in accordance with GOSL procurement procedures
acceptable to IDA. Such purchases will not exceed the equivalent of US$.50 M.
1/  This procedure was followed in both the Kurunegala and RD-II (Matale
and Puttalam) projects. GOSL makes a medium-term loan to officials
who in turn purchase the relevant item from a local dealer. The loan
is repaid out of official travel allowances.



- 27 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMIATE
% of
Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Costs
--------Rs M---------   ------US$M-----------
Civil Works
Surveys and Investigations        6.5    0.7      7.2      0.4    ...       0.4      1.5
Department of Irrigation /a  270.3   75.6   346.0    15.0    4.2    19.2    74.3
Department of Agrarian
Services /a                   26.3    3.9    30.3        1.5    0.2       1.7     6.5
Sub-total                 303.3   80.3   383.6    16.9    4.5    21.3    82.3
Equipment and Vehicles
Department of Irrigation          3.4   35.3    38.7       0.2    2.0       2.2      8.3
Department of Agrarian
Services                       0.8    6.7       7.5      ...    0.4       0.4     1.6
Sub-total                   4.2   42.1    46.2        0.2    2.3      2.6      9.9
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Department of Irrigation          9.0    1.5    10.4       0.5    0.1       0.6      2.2
Department of Agrarian
Services                      10.1    1.6    11.7        0.6    0.1       0.7     2.5
Sub-total                  19.1    3.0    22.1        1.1    0.2      1.2      4.7
Training, Evaluation and
Technical Assistance          10.9    3.4    14.3        0.6    0.2      0.8      3.1
Base Costs:  Total             337.4  128.7   466.0    18.7    7.2    25.9   100.0
Price Contingencies /b          276.6   41.6   318.2    15.4    2.3    17.7    68.3
Total Project Costs             614.0  170.3   784.3    34.1    9.5    43.6   168.3
/a   Including 10% supervision and administration.
/b   Price Contingencies as follows:
1980   1981  1982   1983   1984   1985
--------------% per annum-------------
Local Costs        25.0   25.0  15.0   12.0   10.0    8.0
Foreign Costs      12.5    9.0   8.5    7.5    7.5    7.5
4.04        Civil works under the project will be individually small and scat-
tered. Construction will be seasonal and it would be neither feasible nor
economic to group schemes into large contracts suitable for ICB. Thle civil
works under the project will therefore be undertaken mainly by local domestic
contractors, with a minority of the work being undertaken by force account.
The DI and the DAS will retain full responsibility for construction standards.
For contracts, the normal practice is to award the works for minor irrigation
schemes on the basis of small unit price contracts to registered and approved
contractors, supervised by technical assistants and engineers and with a works
supervisor permanently on site during construction. Given the low average



- 28 -
cost, these procedures will be followed under the project although the poten-
tial of local competitive bidding will be explored where this is warranted
by the works to be undertaken, or by the possibility of grouping a number of
schemes under one contract.
Disbursements
4.05      Disbursements under the IDA credit would be made for:
(a)  70% of the costs of civil works, excluding the costs of
supervision and administration;
(b)  100% of the cif costs of equipment and vehicles procured
abroad; and 100% ex-factory or 80% at point of retail
sale for equipment and vehicles procured locally;
(c)  100% of specified DAS training costs; and
(d)  100% of the costs of evaluation studies and technical
assistance.
4.06      Disbursements for civil works and training would be made against
statements of expenditures, submitted to IDA through the office of the project
coordinator, and audited according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Support-
ing documents will be retained by GOSL and made available to IDA supervision
missions if required. Disbursements for equipment and vehicles, technical
assistance and evaluation studies would be made against full documentation
and subject to normal IDA procedures. It is anticipated that the final
disbursements of the IDA credit would be made by December 31, 1986, about
one year after the scheduled completion of project implementation. The
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 3, Table 6, and the credit
would be allocated as follows:
Amount of Credit
Allocated in US$ Equivalent   % Financed
1.  Civil works and materials                23.0                    70
2.  Equipment: directly imported              2.5               100% cif costs
locally procured               0.2                   80
3.  Training                                  0.4                   100
4. Evaluation studies and
technical assistance                    0.8                  100
5.  Unallocated                               3.1                  n.a.
TOTAL                              30.0                   69
Accounts and Audits
4.07      The DI and the DAS are subject to normal GOSL expenditure and audit-
ing procedures, which are considered satisfactory. Project accounts would be
maintained separately by these two departments in a readily identifiable form
to enable them to be audited separately from overall departmental accounts by
an independant auditor. Budgetary allocations would be included in the vote



- 29 -
of the DI, the lead agency for the project. The Project Management Division
would be responsible for preparing the annual budgets for civil works and for
assembling the overall budget request in consultation with the Project Steer-
ing Committee (see para 5.01); for releasing funds to the range offices of the
DI, the DAS and other agencies involved in the project; for maintaining the
consolidated district accounts for the civil works implemented by the DI; for
assembling the audited accounts of DI and other departments and agencies to
which funds have been released; for calling for tenders procuring and supply-
ing machinery, vehicles, equipment etc. provided for in the project; and for
submitting reimbursement claims to IDA. The corresponding unit in DAS would
be responsible for preparing the annual budget request for the DAS components;
maintaining consolidated district accounts for DAS expenditures; and for
preparing and furnishing audited accounts with claims for reimbursement to
the DI. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a)  separate accounts would be established and maintained for
the project by DI and DAS;
(b)  accounts and financial statements would be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(c)  financial statements would be submitted to IDA for review
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, and certified copies of audited accounts and the
auditor's report not later than nine months; and
(d)  the audit report would include, inter alia, a statement that
funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had been
used for the purposes for which they were provided.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Overall Project Management
5.01      Committees at three levels will be responsible for the control and
coordination of the project:
(a)  The National Committee for Village Tank Rehabilitation,
established in 1980, is responsible for the coordination
of all minor irrigation works, irrespective of the funding
or implementing agencies. It will be responsible for over-
all control of the VIR project, and for deciding the annual
district programs in relation to other projects and programs.
(b)  The Project Steering Committee in the MLDD, chaired by
the Secretary of Lands, and with representatives from the
MADR, the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Department
of External Resources, the DI, the DAS, the Survey Depart-
ment, the Water Resources Board, the Freedom from Hunger
Campaign and the University of Peradeniya, will be respon-
sible for (i) the approval of the annual district programs



- 30 -
and budgets, (ii) allocation of funds to the Departments
and Agencies involved, (iii) reviewing and monitoring
progress, (iv) resolving implementation bottlenecks and
(v) recommending modifications in project design.
(c) The District Agricultural Committee in each district, chaired
by the Government Agent and consisting of the Additional
Government Agent (Lands), the Regional Deputy Director of
Irrigation, the Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Services/
Regional DAS Engineer, the Assistant Director of Agriculture
with the Development Officer of the district office as
secretary, will be responsible for (i) identifying items
for inclusion in the annual district programs, (ii) sched-
uling a program of investigations by DI and DAS officers,
(iii) submitting an annual program of works for the approval
of the Project Steering Committee and (iv) monitoring
progress and resolving implementation problems. These com-
mittees were established under the Irrigation Ordinance and
have wide responsibilities for the coordination of agricul-
tural activities in the districts. They will provide a link
with the proposed District Development Councils and will
ensure consistency with other programs e.g. those financed
under the RD projects or the DCB. In some districts, a spe-
cific sub-committee may be established for the VIR project
but this is not thought essential for all districts.
5.02      An assurance has been obtained that the Project Steering Committee
and District Agricultural Committees in all districts partici-
pating in the project will be maintained through the life of the VIR project.
Through the Project Steering Committee, the MLLD will coordinate the activities
of the various departments and agencies involved, and will be responsible for
overall policy review and management. A coordinator appointed in MLLD will
have particular responsibility for the supervision of the agencies involved in
project evaluation. Funds for the project will be included in the budget of
the DI, which is the major implementing agency. A Project Management Division
has been established in DI, and will be responsible for the implementation of
the DI program, as well as functioning as the general secretariat for the
project as a whole (para 4.07). A Project Management Division in the DAS,
under the proposed Deputy Commissioner for Water Management, will supervise
the water management and other programs to be undertaken by that department,
and will liaise closely with the comparable division in the DI.
Civil Works
5.03      Department of Irrigation.  The DI will be responsible for the execu-
tion of the main civil works through its present organization, supported by
machinery, vehicles, equipment etc. provided under the project. The regional
operations of the department are organized under 15 Range Officers, each under
a Deputy Director (DD). For major construction works, the Range DD reports to
the Senior DD (Major Construction) in Colombo. For all minor works, he reports
to the Senior DD (Regional Works). Overall responsibility for all regional
works is held by the Additional Director of Irrigation. In addition to the
deputy director, each Range has a position for a chief irrigation engineer,
and is sub-divided into a number of divisions, each under an irrigation



- 31 -
engineer supported by technical assistants, draughtsmen etc. A division can
either be confined to a major irrigation project, or have general responsibil-
ity for irrigation in a defined geographical area, including that for minor
irrigation construction. While the DI as a whole is suffering from a serious
shortage of qualified engineers due to emigration and competition from the
private and parastatal sectors, the shortages are less severe in the case of
technical assistants. It will be these who will be primarily responsible for
surveys and supervising construction under the project, while their produc-
tivity should be increased by the relaxation of restrictions on overtime, etc.
(para 3.09). Given also that financial constraints are likely to curtail the
initiation of other major projects, it is judged that these offices will have
the capacity to implement the proposed work program. Assurances have been
obtained that the staff position will be reviewed annually in establishing
the district programs, and that staff will be transferred between districts if
and when this is required. Consideration at a future date may be given to the
possibility of employing private consultants to design and supervise construc-
tion if DI staffing constraints pose a serious problem. This approach is being
tested under the IDA-supported RD II project (Cr. 1079-CE), and experience
under this project will be closely monitored.
5.04      Implementation Program.   In selecting, investigating and rehabili-
tating schemes under the project, a regular annual cycle will be followed:
(a) Initial identification of potential schemes would be under-
taken by the District Coordinating Committee, taking into
account the advice of relevant Government officers, and
would be completed early in the year prior to that in which
actual construction is to take place. The length of this
list would be determined by the district allocations set
by the National Committee.
(b) Identified schemes would be inspected by the technical staff
of the DI and a preliminary investigation report would be
prepared, sufficient to establish whether or not the scheme
is likely to conform to the agreed criteria.
(c) Approval of the revised list would be obtained from the
Project Steering Committee at the latest by April and the
DI, in cooperation with the District Coordinating Committee,
would prepare a schedule of full investigations for the
period April through September.
(d) At the commencement of the full survey, a meeting would be
arranged at the site, involving the officers of the DI, DAS
and DA as well as the farmers under the leadership of their
elected irrigation headman (vel vidane). Proposals for
rehabilitation would be discussed and agreement reached on
the approach to be taken and the timing of investigations.
(e) In tanks selected for the formal implementation of water
management, the DAS Agricultural Planning Team would advise
the DI survey team of the structural requirements for water
management and on completion of the DI designs, the DAS



- 32 -
officers would inspect the final designs to ensure com-
patibility with the water management and operation program
proposed. Technical approval will be the responsibility
of the Deputy Director of Irrigation in the district,
with overall technical supervision provided by the Project
Management Office in Colombo.
(f)  A revised list of schemes to be constructed in the following
year will be submitted by the District Coordinating Committee
to the Project Steering Committee at the latest by end-November.
Final approval of the schemes to be included will be given by
the Steering Committee by end-December.
(g)  Construction will commence with the release of funds in the
new year. Prior to construction, a meeting will be held at
the site to explain the project proposals to the farmers
and to arrange for their participation in the project.
Construction would follow the completion of the main maha
harvest, being phased over the period January through
September to avoid the main rains and avoid interruption
with agricultural production. Every effort will be made
to complete work on any scheme within the course of one
season. Particular attention would be given to maintain-
ing the quality of construction through regular visits
by the proposed quality control field staff.
5.05      The cycle would be repeated with the initial selection of schemes
for the subsequent year. In preparing the tentative project schedules, it
is assumed that each technical assistant involved in the project will be able
to supervise construction of three schemes, and investigate a further four to
five in any one year.
Operation, Maintenance and Water Management
5.06      Department of Agrarian Services.  Under the Agrarian Services Act of
1979, DAS has responsibility for the Government's role in all matters relating
to the operation and maintenance of minor irrigation. To date, this role has
been largely confined to (i) organizing elections of irrigation headmen,
arranging pre-cultivation meetings, etc.; and (ii) carrying out maintenance
and repairs. Under its present organization (Annex 2, Chart 2), arranging
elections, etc. has been the responsibility of the divisional and cultivation
officers based at Agrarian Services Centers. These are organized on a district
base, with the district organization headed by an Assistant Commissioner
reporting to the Commissioner of Agrarian Services in Colombo. The repair
and maintenance activities are implemented by a staff of technical assistants,
who report for administrative purposes to the Assistant Commissioner of the
district but for technical direction to the Chief Engineer in Colombo. Overall
direction and control of the repair and maintenance program is provided by a
Deputy Commissioner located in Colombo. The number of technical assistants
in place is well below the approved cadre. Of a nationally approved total of
444 technical assistants, only 290 are in place of which none are of Grade 1
status (70 approved) and only 116 are Grade II (214 approved). Of the latter,
some are on secondment from the DI while they also include about 30 re-employed
pensioners.



- 33 -
5.07      Under the project, DAS will be strengthened to facilitate the imple-
mentation of a systematic water management program. Assurances have been
obtained from GOSL that the necessary administrative changes will be under-
taken in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to IDA, and that
their effectiveness will be reviewed not later than end-1984 as a basis for
assessing the long-term role of DAS and other agencies in support of minor
irrigation. The revised organization proposed is shown in Annex 2, Chart 3.
Seven regional offices will be established, covering the whole country, each
under an engineer reporting to the Chief Engineer in Colombo. Three of these
offices cover the majority of the initial VIR project area and will be sup-
ported under the project. A fourth office is proposed for Kununegala and
Puttalam which will participate in the VIR project as from 1983/84 (para
3.06). These offices will direct three main activities:
(a) The planning and implementation of water management programs
on identified schemes. Twelve agricultural planning teams will
initially be established, each comprising an agriculturalist
and a technical assistant recruited from DAS's existing staff.
(b) The operation of a new water management service to liase with
farmers and to maintain agreed water management programs. A
new cadre of "tank supervisors" would be established, the
numbers of whom would increase as additional schemes are
brought into the water management program.
(c) The ongoing repair and maintenance program. Existing staff
would be strengthened through an expanded training program,
and provision of additional vehicles and construction
equipment.
5.08      Three divisions corresponding to these activities will report to the
Regional Engineer. Although staff would be organized under separate divisions,
there is a complementarity between water management (being concentrated during
the main growing period) and repair and maintenance (being concentrated in the
off-season). It will therefore be possible to provide some cross-support
between the two programs. The district offices of DAS under the Assistant
Commissioners will continue to be responsible for the administration of the
Agrarian Services Law, including the management of the Agrarian Service
Centers.
5.09      The Regional Engineers will be responsible for two or three dis-
tricts. Their staff may be based at district offices to permit easy access to
the field, but for all but administrative purposes will report to the Regional
Engineer. A Deputy Commissioner (Water Management) in Colombo will direct
the water management activities as a whole, and will function as the DAS
coordinator for the project. A Water Management Engineer will be appointed,
reporting to the Chief Engineer, who will be responsible for supervising the
technical aspects of water management. The appointment of these two officers
will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The officers will be assisted
by an adviser on water management (para 5.19). The Deputy Commissioner (Minor
Irrigation) and the Chief Engineer will continue to supervise the ongoing
repair and maintenance program.



- 34 -
5.10      Selection of Schemes for Water Mlanagement.  All tank schemes to be
rehabilitated by the DI will in principle be considered for water management.
In addition, DAS would identify appropriate working tanks in convenient
locations to facilitate the overall efficient use of the water management
staff (para 3.18). The cycle for approving the works involved in the latter
schemes would be similar to that for the more substantial DI program. Final
approval of the DAS program would be given by the Steering Committee before
end-December, and funds would be released as appropriate in the new year.
Construction would be supervised by the repair and maintenance wing and
the DI quality control field staff would provide backup assistance.
5.11      Water Management Planning.  Once a scheme has been identified for
water management, the Agricultural Planning Team would prepare a plan following
guidelines that have been prepared in draft and will be finalized by DAS and
DA staff in cooperation with the water management adviser (para 5.19). Asso-
ciated with the team in its work would be one DAS Tank Supervisor (TS), the
local extension worker, the local cultivation officer and the irrigation
headman (vel vidane). The findings and final designs of the teams would be
transmitted through the Regional Engineer to the Deputy Commissioner (Water
Management) for approval. The structural requirements and their location in
the field would for rehabilitated tanks then be put forward to the DI through
the office of the Regional Engineer for execution. Should other technical
requirements for water management become apparent during the agricultural plan-
ning cycle, they would also be submitted through the same office to the DI.
5.12      Implementation of Water Management. For implementation, the TS
would be the focal point. Each TS would be allocated 10 to 15 tanks. After
the investigation team has cleared and finalized a water management plan for
a tank, and the Deputy Commissioner (Water Mlanagement) had given his approval
to the proposed program, the TS would leave the team to implement the program.
He would organize farmers groups and assist in the election of group leaders;
lay out the field channel and drainage system; assist farmers in construction
and setting prefabricated farm gates; place rain gauges and establish time
schedule boards; and ensure that the water level gauge and measuring device
are set appropriately.
5.13      Operation of Water Management.  The operation of the system would
be done by the same TS who had helped with implementation. His main task
would now be to maintain the system of operation. To do this, he would follow
a published schedule of visits to each tank. He would be responsible for
advising farmers on the water supply system; operation of the sluices after
rainfall; and utilization of saved water during yala. He would be available
in case of any disputes which may arise during water shortages. During the
early phase of the project, he would concentrate on implementing early cul-
tivation in order to obtain an immediate impact. He would also assist farmers
in maintenance. About 10 TSs would be supervised by one DAS TA Grade II
officer, on a full time basis. The TA Grade II officer would be supervised by
the Regional Engineer. In order to obtain easier supervision, tanks for any
one TS mould be selected in clusters. Bicycles would be provided for each
TS and motorcycles for TA Grade II officers.
5.14      The actual management and distribution of water would be decided by
farmers. In the larger schemes, with rotational water supply (RWS), consider-
able numbers of farmers would have to work together. This would be accomplished



- 35 -
through the establishment of groups. Each group would consist of about 6 to
10 farmers. A basic criterion for forming a group will be the physical entity
around one field channel. Each group would elect one farmer of the group as
their group leader. All group leaders will be represented in a Tank Committee,
chaired by the vel vidane. The group leader would be the focal point for
individual farmers in case problems arise within the group's internal schedule.
If the problem is due to a situation outside the group's influence, the group
leader would raise his voice in the Tank Committee. Since water is provided
on a rotational basis to each group, the group leader would help to ensure
that each group member receives his share of water according to the pre-planned
time schedule.
5.15      The operation of the system will be done by the vel vidane.  He
will operate the sluice and follow the rotational schedule as published on
the display boards. Disputes in the allocation of water among farmers which
cannot be solved by group leaders will be settled by him. The vel vidane will
also be the vital link between farmers and government officers. In the case
of smaller schemes, or where RWS is not introduced, farmer groups may not be
needed and the vel vidane will be fully responsible for the operation of the
scheme.
5.16      Repair and Maintenance.  For the first two years after reconstruc-
tion, the DI and DAS will be responsible for ensuring the satisfactory per-
formance of civil works constructed by them. Normal maintenance will be the
responsibility of the farmers, assisted by the TS. The latter would alert
farmers to maintenance requirements, in particular to the need for preventive
maintenance. The repair and maintenance wing of DAS, reporting to the Regional
Engineer, will continue its regular program. For those schemes participating
in the water management program, the visits of the TS will ensure feed back to
the maintenance wing concerning emergencies or major repairs. To strengthen
the capacity of the DAS to respond, the project would provide construction
equipment which will be based at the new Regional Offices. It is hoped that
over time, and once the current backlog in maintenance is overcome, the
maintenance staff will increasingly turn to the implementation of the civil
works required for the introduction of water management programs.
Training
5.17      A crash program to provide training for 22 new TA recruits was
implemented by DAS at Moratuwa University in 1980, and a further 100 will be
trained during 1981. The training lasts only one year, compared to the two
years previously provided for DI technical assistants. Once the current acute
staff shortages are overcome, more substantial training programs leading to a
full technical diploma will become the rule. For staff directly involved with
the water management program, three levels of training would be provided at
Maha Illuppallama:
(a)  Senior technical staff:  two to four weeks with possibly a
study tour abroad;
(b)  The Agricultural Planning Teams (agriculturalists and TAs)
and TA Grade II (supervisors of the TS's): four weeks during
the first year with regular follow-up refresher courses; and



- 36 -
(c) Tank supervisors: four weeks during the first year, with
refresher courses subsequently.
5.18      Arrangements would also be made to provide five day training courses
to irrigation headmen (vel vidane) involved in water management programs.
Short training courses of a few days would be given to DAS staff indirectly
involved in water management: at Maha Illuppallama for Assistant Commissioners
and Divisional Officers and in the districts for Cultivation Officers.
Technical Assistance
5.19      A Water Management Adviser to be provided under the project, would
coordinate the training program and help train the instructors from the
Department of Agriculture in the techniques to be adopted under the program.
He would assist in developing course material and in providing instruction
at Maha Illuppallama. He would participate in the development of a few
tanks near Maha Illuppallama as pilot projects to be used intensively for the
training of tank supervisors. In addition, he would assist DAS in establish-
ing the organizational framework for the water management program; refine the
guidelines for implementing water management, prepare design manuals for the
distribution system; and generally advise DAS staff. He would also provide
assistance to the DA's physical resource evaluation (para 5.23). An assurance
has been obtained from GOSL that the water management adviser would be employed
by October 31, 1981 on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Terms of
Reference for his assignment are available in the project file. For a period
of two years, he would be full time on the project. At the end of this
period, his assignment would be reviewed and a decision taken as to whether he
should be extended full time for a third year or, alternatively, should return
regularly during the remainder of the project period for a total of a further
12 months.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20      A flexible approach to project implementation is recommended.
Issues to be kept under review include: (i) the overall district balance;
(ii) the methods of construction; (iii) the criteria for tank/anicut selec-
tion; (iv) the implementation of the water management program; and (v) the
impact of the project on agricultural production and its implications for
further planning and implementation of village irrigation schemes.
5.21      Project Monitoring.  The Project Management Division of the DI will
be responsible for receiving and monitoring progress reports from the districts;
summarizing and submitting monthly progress reports on the implementation of
the DI civil works to the Project Steering Committee, and submitting quarterly
reports to IDA. A project monitoring unit in the Water Management Division
will have comparable responsibilities in DAS.
5.22      Agricultural Production Impact.  The DAS in association with the
Freedom From Hunger Campaign (FFHC) and the Department of Census and Statis-
tics (DCS) will be responsible for monitoring the agricultural production
benefits obtained. The FFHC has already developed and tested data collection
procedures. Actual data collection will be undertaken by DAS COs, under the
supervision of FFHC field staff. A base line survey of about 150 schemes



- 37 -
scheduled for rehabilitation in 1981 is to be undertaken following the 1980/81
maha crop. These base line data will be followed up annually by a comparable
survey of about 200-250 schemes.
5.23      Physical Resources and Hydrology.  The Land and Water Use Division
of the Department of Agriculture will undertake a physical resource evaluation
study directed at improving the data base on the hydrology and irrigation
potential of village tanks. For new village schemes the lack of data on
small catchments could be a serious problem. Improvements to the data base
may also suggest modifications to the storage/supply ratio included in the
criteria for tank/anicut selection, and through adaptation of design criteria
result in cost savings. The terms of reference for the proposed study are
available in the project file. In addition to investigating the variability
of rainfall runoff relationships, the study would: (i) conduct inflow, outflow
and loss measurements on selected schemes in order to establish the magnitude
of the tank and command area water balance components; (ii) classify the soils
in the command areas and correlate these with the overall hydrology of the
tank; (iii) evaluate crop and irrigation water requirements for paddy and
upland crops; (iv) develop suitable water use models; (v) recommend cropping
patterns appropriate for different conditions; (vi) review the accepted
storage/supply criteria; and (vii) suggest minimum tank depth criteria.
5.24      Socio-economic Evaluation.  The University of Peradeniya will under-
take a regular annual socio-economic evaluation survey on a sample of about
20-25 tanks in order to evaluate the project's impact on agricultural produc-
tion, farm incomes and employment. A base line socio-economic survey of about
1,400 farmers in 300 randomly selected tanks was completed in 1980. Further
surveys would be coordinated with the physical resource evaluation. The study
would also focus on the impact of rehabilitation on farm incomes as a basis
for making recommendations for implementing cost recovery programs in the
future. Terms of reference for the University's study are available in the
project file.
5.25      An assurance has been obtained that MLLD will reach agreement, no
later than December 31, 1981, with the agencies concerned (FFHC, DCS, UP and
DA) to undertake the specified monitoring and evaluation studies under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Agricultural Development with the Project
6.01      A combined irrigable area of about 31,500 ha (78,000 acres) under
some 1,200 village irrigation schemes would benefit under the project from
a better managed, more reliable water supply. In addition to higher yields
and cropping intensities on existing irrigated land, it is expected that
about 22.5% or 7,100 ha would represent land previously cultivated under
rainfed conditions.  This estimate assumes that most schemes will be small
and working close to capacity, and that major design changes will be uncommon.
Cropping intensities in the dry zone are low, being estimated to average only
about 70% (irrigated and rainfed) in maha and 5% in yala. With the project,



- 38 -
these are expected to rise to 85% (irrigated) and 20%, rates which correspond
to those achieved on the more favorably placed working tanks. In addition,
added security is expected to reduce the risk of crop failure from an average
of 15% to 5% in maha and from 20% to 15% in yala. Cropping intensities in the
intermediate zone tend to be significantly higher, being estimated at about
90% in maha (irrigated plus rainfed) and 25% in yala. These are expected to
rise to 95% and 50%, respectively. In contrast to schemes in the dry zone,
for which the main impact of rehabilitation will be felt in maha, the expec-
tation is that benefits in the intermediate zone will primarily accrue from
increased yala cropping.
6.02      Rice is virtually the only crop grown at present.  The area under
rice in maha is expected to increase from about 23,100 ha (of which about
5,000 ha is rainfed) to 27,200 ha with the project and in yala from 2,900 ha
to about 7,500 ha. In total, the rice area receiving irrigation will there-
fore rise by about 13,700 ha or 65%. On the lighter soils, some diversifi-
cation is projected during yala, to the extent of about 2,000 ha of upland
crops represented by chillies and cowpeas. The actual diversification achieved
will reflect the success or otherwise of the water management program. More
reliable water supplies, together with improved water management practices,
the introduction of early maturing varieties, early sowing and other improved
cultural practices are expected to result in an increase in average irrigated
yields with the project from 2.25 tons/ha to 2.8 tons/ha in maha, and from
2.2 tons/ha also to 2.8 tons/ha in yala. In other words, yields are expected
to rise from a relatively low level to those prevailing under the more suc-
cessful currently operating tanks (para 2.17). Average yields of chillies and
cowpeas which are representative of possible upland commercial crops are
estimated at 1.2 tons/ha and 1.0 ton/ha, respectively. These are not expected
to rise significantly during the project period due to the relatively small
effort spent on research and seed production of these crops. At full develop-
ment, crop production would amount to about 90,300 tons of paddy, about 1,000
tons of chillies and 850 tons of cowpea, compared to a current paddy produc-
tion of about 46,000 tons.
6.03      Without the project, cropped areas and cropping patterns are expected
to remain broadly constant. In practice, further deterioration of the physical
facilities might be expected to reduce areas under irrigation, with a conse-
quent increase in rainfed paddy or alternatively, the abandonment of command
area. Some increase in average irrigated yields without the project is
projected due to the progressive adoption of improved practices, with maha
yields rising to an average of 2.6 tons/ha and yala yields to 2.5 tons/ha.
Rainfed paddy yields are projected to remain constant.
6.04      Table 6.1 summarizes the overall agricultural impact of the project.
The detailed assumptions are presented in Annex 5, Table 1. The estimates
represent a reasonable response to the rehabilitation works themselves.
Further improvements over and above those projected with the project are
certainly possible. Much will depend on the selection of schemes for inclu-
sion in the project and on the effectiveness of the water management programs
implemented on selected schemes. The initial selection of schemes according
to the agreed criteria will ensure that costs are contained in the early
years. In the longer-term, the monitoring and evaluation studies proposed
will increasingly provide a basis for modifying the selection process to
concentrate on those schemes with the highest agricultural potential.



- 39 -
Table 6.1: AGRICULTURAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
X Increase
Future    Future   With Project
Present    Without    With    Over Without
Situation   Project   Project    Project
I.   Command Area (ha)
Rainfed                       7,085       7,085        -           -
Irrigated                    24,415      24,415      31,500      +29
II.  Sown Area (ha)
Maha:  rainfed paddy          5,020       5,020        -
Maha:  irrigated paddy       18,095      18,095      27,170      +50
Yala:  irrigated paddy        2,380       2,380       7,485     +162
Yala:  irrigated upland         -           -         1,970        -
III. Harvested Area (ha)
Maha:  rainfed paddy          3,855       3,855         -          -
Maha:  irrigated paddy       15,950      15,950      25,805      +62
Yala:  irrigated paddy        2,380       2,380       6,555     +175
Yala:  irrigated upland         -           -         1,715        -
IV.  Production (M tons)
Paddy                        45,940      52,500      90,300      +72
Chillies                        -           -         1,025       -
Cowpeas                                     -           850       -
Marketing and Prices
6.05      Paddy.  Recent developments have reflected GOSL's attempts to
extricate itself from a costly rationing system designed to guarantee cheap
food supplies to the population at large. Reforms introduced since 1978 have
included the replacement of the ration system by food stamps. This has led to
a major shift in rice marketing to the private sector, with the Government's
role increasingly moving towards one of market regulation and away from
distribution. Under this system, the Government stands ready to buy at the
GPS price (effectively the floor) and--provided it has adequate stocks--sets
the market ceiling at the price at which it sells imports. A recent decision
to institute a public tender system should enable the Government to intervene
at a price above the GPS price thus regulating the market without losing the
efficiency gains from private marketing. 1/
6.06      In November 1980, the GPS price was increased from Rs 40/bushel to
Rs 50/bushel (Rs 2.4/kg) and a further increase to Rs 52.5/bushel occurred
in early 1981. Since imports were being sold at a retail price of about
Rs 6.0/kg in late 1980 (equivalent to about Rs 80-85/bushel of paddy) suffi-
cient margin remains to allow active participation by the private sector.
1/   For a full discussion of the policy changes and their implications, see
the 1980 CEM: "Sri Lanka: Key Development Issues in the 1980s," Volume
II: Agricultural Producer Incentives" Report 2955-CE, May 29, 1980.



- 40 -
Although imports are being sold on a cost plus basis, world market prices
have risen significantly during the last year and are expected to continue
to increase in real terms. The current economic price is therefore signifi-
cantly above the GPS price even after the recent increase in the latter. For
the purposes of the economic and financial analysis, it is assumed that this
differential will narrow to reflect GOSL's policy of trade liberalization,
but that farmers who sell primarily at the peak harvest will continue to
obtain the GPS price (Annex 5, Table 2). To the extent that the GPS acts as
a floor price, this is likely to result in a conservative assessment of farm
incomes.
6.07      Chillies and Cowpeas.  In October 1979, GOSL introduced a floor
price scheme for eight minor field crops including chillies. The prices
set were revised in April 1980 and the scheme was extended to include cowpea
and green gram. The aim of the floor price scheme is similar to that for
paddy--to stabilize the market and to provide a minimum guarantee to the
farmer. The capacity of the Government to stabilize the market will depend
essentially on the PMB's ability to purchase supplies during the harvest
season, and on its flexibility in meeting changing relative supply positions
among the different crops. A reduced PMB role in the rice market should
release capacity for other crops, although a strengthening of the PMB's
administrative organization and improved storage and marketing facilities
will still be required.
6.08      Farm Inputs.  To offset the impact of inflation, and to compensate
for an unchanged GPS price at that time, GOSL increased the subsidy on fer-
tilizer in September 1979 from 50% of the C&F price to 75%. With the recent
increase in the GPS price, and in recognition of the heavy and growing burden
on the budget, a policy decision has been taken to reduce the total level of
fertilizer subsidies to Rs 1,000 M during 1981 and thereafter to consider
phasing out the subsidy completely. For the financial analysis, initial
price increases of 75-125% have been taken, and it is assumed the subsidy
will be phased out by 1990 (Annex 5, Table 2). Price incentives for fertilizer
use are currently--even after the recent price increases--very favorable but
the effect on such incentives will clearly have to be kept under review in
future price adjustments. Subsidies on other farm inputs are fairly modest.
Cross-subsidization in-the petroleum market has kept diesel costs relatively
low, but the diesel price was increased twice during 1980 and is now Rs 25/
gallon compared to Rs 13.5/gallon in early 1980. While an implicit subsidy
may still exist, the effect on farm power costs is largely offset by import
duties on import equipment. The liberalization of the trading regime has
furthermore resulted in tractors and other privately marketed agricultural
inputs being widely available, and--while their costs have increased relative
to the GPS price for rice--physical availability appears no longer to be a
serious problem. Annex 5, Table 2 summarizes the price assumptions used in
the economic and financial analysis.
Farm Incomes
6.09      The impact of the project on family incomes has been analyzed
separately for representative farms in both the dry zone and the intermed-
iate zones. Farm size in the latter tends to be significantly smaller than



- 41 -
in the former, offset in part by the higher levels of cropping intensity. 1/
For the purposes of this analysis, an average paddy holding of 1.5 ha is
assumed for the dry zone areas and 0.75 ha for the intermediate zone.  Other
representative fana sizes are illustrated in Annex 5, Tables 5 and 6.
6.10      Complicating any assessment of the project's impact on farm incomes
are the wide variations in initial conditions from scheme to scheme, and the
fact that paddy represents only one element in a complex agriculture. The
with-project net value added per farm represents an upper limit in the impact
on farm incomes for breached tanks or those which to all intents have been
abandoned. The share of paddy in total farm incomes is equally variable, and
the impact of rehabilitation on non-paddy activities is unclear. According
to an analysis of more than 1,000 farm interviews by the University of
Peradeniya, paddy accounted for about 60% of net farm incomes and 35% of
total incomes in the crop year 1978/79. 2/ Despite substantial variations
from district to district, no clear pattern emerged in relation to zonal
characteristics. The relative share of paddy in total incomes is therefore
based on these proportions in relation to the present situation, but income
from non-paddy sources is assumed to remain constant in real terms following
rehabilitation.
6.11      Table 6.2 summarizes the projected impact of the project on net farm
incomes. While it is expected to have a significant effect on average incomes
derived from the paddy tract (130% increase in the dry zone and 81% in the
intermediate zone), its impact on total incomes is likely to be fairly modest
given the importance of other sources of income. It is possible that, by
competing for family labor and other resources, income from other sources
will decline. However, this is likely to be offset by the greater stability
created by a firmer paddy economy, and the associated promotion of stabilized
upland and permanent tree crop cultivation. Of interest is the apparent
1/   According to the 1973 agricultural census, paddy holdings averaged 1.5
acres (0.6 ha) in the six districts of the project area characterized
by a mixed zonal pattern (Annex 1, Tables 3-5) compared to 4.5 acres
(1.8 ha) in the remaining districts lying fully in the dry zone. A
comparable picture emerges also from the socio-economic base line
study undertaken by the University of Peradeniya.
2/   The average structure of income per farm family in the University's
survey was as follows (1978/79 prices):
Rs/family   % of Total
Paddy                                   1,845          34
Other field crops                         425           8
Permanent crops                           590          11
Livestock                                 160           3
Total Farm Income                   3,020           56
Non-farm Income                         2,385          44
Total Family Income                  5,405         100



- 42 -
comparability of overall family incomes under the two representative farm
budgets, since higher cropping intensities and a lower dependence on hired
labor in the intermediate zone broadly offset the larger assumed paddy holding
in the dry zone. This conclusion is broadly consistent with the results of
the UP survey. 1/
6.12      Even after the project, and allowing for a substantial proportion of
income being derived from sources other than the paddy tract, average family
incomes--even for larger paddy holdings (see Annex 5, Tables 5 and 6)--will
remain low relative to those achieved for instance under the Mahaweli program.
Assuming an average family size of 5.8 persons, per capita income for the ave-
rage paddy holding will rise from about Rs 1,600 to Rs 2,200 (US$89 to US$122).
These can be compared with an estimated average per capita income of about
US$220 for the country as a whole.
Table 6.2: PROJECTED NET FAMILY INCOMES /a
% Increase With
Future         Future         Project Over
Without         With            Without
-------  Rs --------
Dry Zone: 1.5 ha
Income from Paddy Tract               3,140          7,215            +130
Other Farm Income                     2,030          2,030               -
Non-Farm Income                       4,065          4,065               -
Total Family Income                   9,235         13,310             +44
Per Capita Income                     1,600          2,295
Intermediate Zone:  0.75 ha
Income from Paddy Tract               3,240          5,870             +81
Other Farm Income                     2,095          2,095              -
Non-Farm Income                       4,195          4,195              -
Total Family Income                   9,530         12,160             +28
Per Capita Income                     1,645          2,095
/a   At an average of 1980 and 1990 prices expressed at 1980 currency values.
See Annex 5, Tables 5 and 6.
1/   For instance, compare the characteristics of the two main districts
surveyed Anuradhapura (dry zone) and Kurunegala (mixed zonal pattern)
(1978/79 prices):
Average Paddy    Income from
Holding           Paddy        Total Income
Kurunegala               0.9 ha            1,950           5,730
Anuradhapura             2.04 ha           2,295           5,230



- 43 -
CosL Recovery
6.13       It is estimated that total costs associated witht the provision of
an adequate irrigation distribution system will amount to about Rs 2,225 per
ha at 1980 prices (Rs 900 per acre), of which Rs 1,235 hiave been allowed for
in the project cost table (shared equally between the provision of control
structures and the earthwork associated with the main supply channel--Annex
2, Table 3). The balance represents farmer labor provided for the construc-
tion of the field channel system. Farmers will also meet the majority of
O&M costs, notably through the provision of labor for annual maintenance.
It is estimated that on average, four cubes (400 cubic feet) of earthwork
are involved per acre per year (the estimate provided by the DAS), of which
one cube (Rs 125 per ha) represents the incremental cost that can be attri-
buted to the project. In addition, farmers are expected to contribute an
operational charge equivalent to half a bushel of rice per incremental cropped
acre (the level set under the Agrarian Services Act to reward the vel vidane).
On this basis, about 15% of the total present value of project costs will
be directly contributed by the farmers (Table 6.3), equivalent on an annual-
ized basis, and after allowing for returns to farmer labor and management,
to between 9-11  of estimated project rent (Annex 5, Tables 5 and 6).
Table 6.3:  PRESENT VALUES OF PROJECT COSTS AND FAR1ER CONTRIBUTION
Present Value
at 12,
Rs 11
investment Costs                                  265.4
Field Channel System                                20.8
Incremental Maintenance                            20.4
Incremental Operations                               8.8
DAS Operations                                      20.4
Present Value:  Total Costs                  335.8
Farmer Contribution                           14.9%
6.14      Given the relatively low incomes prevailing in the project area
after rehabilitation, these rates of cost recovery are considered reasonable.
No water charges are levied by GOSL on minor irrigation schemes, given their
traditional form of ownership and management. 1/ It is not thought practica-
ble to institute the collection of suchi charges, nor to introduce an alterna-
tive cost recovery program, in the context of the VIR project in view of
various factors, including: (i) their absence in the context of other village
1/   Under the Irrigation Ordinance of 1946, amended in 1968, GOSL is empowerec
to levy charges only on major schemes (200 acres or more). Recent regula-
tions have been issued designed to institute such collections, but per-
formance has been mixed and the levels set are low (Rs 20-30 per acre
depending on the intensity achieved). The Irrigation Ordinance is
currently being revised and it is possible that the levels of water
charges will be reviewed.



- 44 -
irrigation programs (including those supported by IDA); (ii) the fairly
limited impact the project is expected to have on average farm incomes;
(iii) the variability of conditions and the inevitable uncertainties which
will continue to be associated with minor irrigation; and (iv) the widely
disbursed nature of the project area, the relatively large number of benefit-
ing farmers and the substantial costs which would inevitably be incurred in
administering any cost recovery program. The socio-economic evaluation study
will, inter alia, review the actual impact of the project on farm incomes
(para 5.24) and, subject to progress in collecting such charges on major
schemes, progress in instituting other cost recovery programs in the context
of major settlement projects (e.g. the Mahaweli program), and in the light of
the revision of the Irrigation Ordinance, the possibility of instituting water
charges in relation to benefitting minor irrigation schemes will be evaluated
for the future.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      The project aims to increase agricultural production and farm
incomes on existing--but underutilized--village irrigation schemes which
have been allowed to deteriorate through inadequate maintenance and repairs
over a number of years. The emphasis on rehabilitation and quick-yielding
investments is appropriate in the light of Sri Lanka's evolving overall
financial problems, and benefits from the project can be expected to flow
as from the first year's investments. Some 20,000-25,000 farm families
will have their incomes supplemented as a result of the project and will
be provided with greater assurances against the risks of weather.  -L. ect
beneficiaries are widely dispersed throughout the country, in areas whizh
frequently remain untouched by other government programs. The project should
therefore help to reduce regional imbalances that may result from the emphasis
on major new irrigation projects and reach some of the least advantaged
communities in the country. The main benefits arising from the project are
summarized below:
Benefitting farm families                         20-25,000
Benefitting command area                          31,500 ha
Increase in cropping intensity             from 82.5% to 116.25%
Increase in rice production                   37,800 tons p.a.
Increase in per capita income                        43%
Increase in farm employment                  2.1 M mandays p.a.
Increase in total value-added           from Rs 140 M to Rs 250 M p.a.
Employment Effects
7.02      Overall direct employment effects will largely arise from increased
cropping intensities on land currently under irrigation and from the conver-
sion of areas presently planted to rainfed paddy to irriated agriculture. At
full development, employment would increase from about 2.7 M mandays to 4.8 M
mandays per year, which is equivalent to approximately 8,000 additional full
time jobs. Medium and larger farmers are expected to hire additional labor,
mostly from rural workers currently underemployed, especially during the dry



- 45 -
season.  Construction of the civil works will also create a total of about
0.85 M mandays of employment during the course of project implementation,
primarily for unskilled labor.
Foreign Exchange Effects
7.03       Based on projected 1990 international prices ex-ressed at mid-1980
currency units, the annual gross foreign exchange value of incremental pro-
duction of paddy generated through the project is estimated ac abouc Rs 183 M
(US$10.2) at full development.  Additional gross benefits equivalent -o Rs 22 1-
p.a. (or 5% of the total) would be realized if the targets for diversifying
into other yala crops achieved. Assuming that 50% of the latter would be
in the form of tradeable commodities, and allowing for the foreign exchange
costs of recurrent agricultural inputs (US$2.5 NI) and foreign exchange costs
of the O&M costs of the irrigation svstem (US$0.1 M), the project's -denti-
fiable direct foreign exchange impact would total about TJSS8.7 HI p.a.
Environmental Impact
7.04      The project is expected to have a beneficial environmentai impact
through its contribution to the stabilization of agriculture in the dry zone
and through the provision of water supplies for livestock and domestic use.
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analysis
7.05      The benefits from the reiabilitation works to be carried out bt the
DI have been compared with the tota  investment costs of the project.  On this
basis the overall economic rate of return (ERR) would be about 20%.  The
economic cash flow for the total project is provided in Annex 5, Table 7 and
the following outlines the principal basis for the economic analysis:
(a) Project Life and Phasing. The project life has been taken
to be 25 years, although adequate maintenance would ensure
a longer working life. The project's phasing is given in
Table 3.1. Since rehabilitation for each scheme will be
completed within one year, benefits will start in 1982 and
full production levels will be reached in 1991.
(b) Prices. For internationally-traded goods, prices were derived
from projected world market prices expressed in mid-1980
currency values. Appropriate adjustments were made for
freight, handling, processing and quality differences. Local
costs and locally valued benefits were expressed in border
rupees, through application of appropriate conversion factors,
the principal ones being a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
of 0.90 1/ and a Construction Conversion Factor (CCF) of 0.92
(Annex 5, Table 3). To adjust for the seasonality of labor
demand, a 30% discount has been made for off-peak labor, with
economic wage rates converted from financial wages by a
1/   Official Exchange Rate (OER) = Rs 18.0/US$.  Shadow Exchange Rate
(SER) = Rs 20.0/US$. SCF = OER/SER = 0.90.



- 46 -
conversion factor of 0.9 in the peak season and 0.8 in the
off-peak season. Year-specific prices have been used for
inputs and outputs over the 1980-90 period, after which 1990
prices were assumed to remain unchanged.
(c) Benefits. Incremental crop benefits are based on the
assumptions presented in paras 6.01-6.04. Some 75% of all
schemes are assumed to lie in the dry zone. Increased crop
security is reflected in an increase in the proportion of
the sown area that is harvested. The increase in the
cropped area is assumed to be obtained in the ratio 36% in
the first year, 64% in the second, 84% in the third and
96% in the fourth, with a corresponding build-up schedule
for yields applied to the increase in cropped area. Yields
without the project are assumed to rise at a constant rate
over a ten year period.
(d) Investment Costs. Average rehabilitation costs per scheme
(Rs 300,000 approximately at 1980 prices) were based on an
analysis of preliminary DI estimates for 375 schemes
(Annex 2, Table 2), including an additional 10% physical
contingency allowance. A construction conversion factor
of 0.92 was applied to this cost, reflecting the assumed
weighted average share of unskilled labor (41%), traded
items, excluding fuel (17%), fuel (8%) and non-traded
items (34%) (Annex 2, Tables 3). The CCF for the field
channel distribution system and for the incremental O&M
of completed schemes (Rs 250/ha at financial prices) were
converted at a conversion factor of 0.87 to represent the
labor intensive operations likely to be involved (Annex 5,
Table 3). Other project costs were valued at their finan-
cial values, with local costs converted at the SCF.
(e) Other benefits are not susceptible to normal techniques of
cost-benefit analysis but include: (i) the creation of a
systematic approach to water management which could be
extended beyond the schemes rehabilitated under the project;
(ii) the residual value of equipment and the creation of
a regional quality control organization in the DI; (iii) the
use of tanks for domestic water supply, livestock, fisheries
and perhaps other uses; and (iv) a contribution to the over-
all stabilization of agriculture in the dry zone (para 1.14).
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
7.06      The overall scope and phasing of the proposed VIR project has been
adjusted in line with the Government's allocations for the project established
in January 1981. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that financial stringency
will entail further adjustments to the project allocations in the future. The
divisibility of the project is such that this could be readily accommodated
through a reduction in the number of schemes rehabilitated in any one year.
Since this would reduce costs and benefits virtually pro rata (given the



- 47 -
weight of the civil works component in total costs), it would lead to a
corresponding reduction in the project's NPV but would leave the ERR virtually
untouched. The economic viability of the project would therefore remain
secure, although the contribution of the project to net incremental value
added to the economy might be delayed.
7.07      In common with similar rehabilitation projects elsewhere, the invest-
ment costs are small relative to the total flows of gross benefits and recur-
rent costs. The project is therefore relatively insensitive to the costs of
rehabilitation, but relatively sensitive to the assumptions concerning the
difference between the with and without project cases. The latter is demon-
strated in Annex 5, Table 9. For instance, if average cropping intensities
increase from 82.5% (including rainfed paddy) to 108% rather than 116%, then
the ERR falls from 19.8% to 14.7%. The variability of conditions inevitably
involves the risk that some sub-optimal schemes will be selected despite
meeting the agreed criteria, while uncertainties are also attached to such
factors as the effectiveness of the proposed water management programs,
externalities in relation to the impact on neighboring tanks and the optimum
timing of rehabilitation for any particular scheme. Nevertheless, it has
been argued that if the water management programs prove successful then the
benefits projected for the project could be greatly exceeded, while the cost
limits set in the criteria for scheme selection (Annex 4) provide an important
safety factor to ensure that most schemes selected remain economically viable.
Switching values for individual and total cost and benefit streams are provided
in Annex 5, Table 8 and the table also includes PWs (Present Worths) for total
cost and benefit streams with their breakdown into relevant categories. The
table shows that any particular minor scheme could accept a very substantial
increase in the costs of rehabilitation (+66%), provided the expected average
increase in agricultural production is achieved while still earning an accept-
able economic return.
7.08      The project's economic viability was also tested for its sensi-
tivity to a number of other key assumptions, including prices, yields and
totJl command area. The results are tabulated as follows, together with the
corresponding impact on the ERR:
Change       ERR
_______% _______
Base Case                                      -           19.8
Economic Price of Paddy                       +20          24.8
Economic Price of Paddy                       -20          14.0
Paddy Yields with Project                     +20          30.6
No Increase in Dry Zone Yala Cropping          -           14.4
No Diversification into Upland Crops           -           17.8
Total Command Area                            -20          16.1
Agricultural Value Added Without Project    +20            14.7
All Farm Costs                                +20          12.4
Delay in Benefits by Two Years                 -           14.8



- 48 -
7.09      While the sensitivity of the results to changes in the assumptions
concerning the difference between the with and without cases is considerable,
the project nevertheless maintains an ERR above 12% (the assumed opportunity
cost of capital) for major changes in relative price assumptions; for a pos-
sible reduction in the total command area by 20% (i.e., from 31,500 ha to
25,000 ha, implying an average scheme size of about 21 ha or 50 acres); for a
delay in benefits by two years (e.g., as a result of a delay in the implemen-
tation of water management program); and for a substantial reduction in the
assumed yala benefits. It is safe to conclude therefore that the returns to
the rehabilitation works themselves, given the cost limitations established
under the selection criteria, will be sufficient in the large majority of
cases to justify particular selected schemes.
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a) All plans and designs for facilities provided under the
project, including those for water management, would be
in accordance with specifications and guidelines satis-
factory to IDA (para 3.03).
(b) The implementation program would be reviewed annually and
modifications to the district coverage would be made after
consultations with IDA, and that staff would be transferred
between districts if and when this is required (paras
3.07 and 5.03).
(c) Separate accounts for the project would be maintained by
the Department of Irrigation and the Department of Agrarian
Services; accounts and financial statements would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; finan-
cial statements would be submitted to IDA for review not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year,
and certified copies of audited accounts and the auditors'
report not later than eight months; and the audit report
would include inter alia a statement that funds disbursed
against statements of expenditure had been used for the
purposes for which they were provided (para 4.07).
(d) The Project Steering Committee and District Agricultural
Committees in all districts participating in the project
would be maintained through the life of the project
(para 5.02).
(e) The administrative changes required to strengthen DAS would
be undertaken in accordance with a program and timetable
satisfactory to IDA, and their effectiveness will be reviewed
not later than end-1984 as a basis for assessing the long-
term role of DAS and other agencies in support of minor
irrigation (para 5.07).



- 49 -
(f)  Twelve agricultural Dlanning teams would be established by
December 31, 1981, each consisting of an agronomist and a
technical assistant (para 3.16).
(g)  A Water Management Advisor would be appointed by GOSL on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA not later than
October 31, 1981 (para 5.19).
(h)  Agreements would be reached with the Department of Agriculture,
the University of Peradeniya, the Sri Lankan Freedom From
Hunger Campaign and the Department of Census and Statistics
to undertake the specified monitoring and evaluation studies
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and details of
the proposed studies would be presented for review by IDA
no later than December 31, 1981 (para 5.25).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are that GOSL would have
appointed the Deputy Commissioner (Water Management) and the Water Management
Engineer in the DAS.
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$30 million on standard IDA terms. The
borrower would be the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Irrigation Requirements of Crops by Soil Type -/
Well Drained     Imperfectly     Poorly
Soil         Drained SoLl  Drained Soil
-mm-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
________________----- mm ----------------------
Maha Season
Wetland paddy: 3 1/2 months2/         1,710            1,050           240
Upland paddy: 3 1/2 mon s -             330              180           180
it  i"    3 months -                 210               60            60
Yala Season
Wetland paddy                         1,470            1,530         1,260
Upland paddy                          1,200            1,200           900
Soybean                                 450              450           330
Cowpea                                  330              330           240
Chillies                             .1,500
------------------ ac ft ----------------
Maha Season
Wetland paddy: 3 1/2 months             5.7             3.5            0.8
Upland paddy: 3 1/2 months              1.1             0.6            0.6
3 months                  0.7            0.2             0.2
Yala Season
Wetland paddy                           4.9             5.1            4.2
Upland paddy                            4.0             4.0            3.0
Soybean                                 1.5             1.5            1.1
Cowpea                                  1.1             1.1            0.8
Chillies                                5.0
1.  Actual data Maha Illuppallama Research Station.
2. Early sown.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Water Balance of Walagambahuwa Tank
-----------Maha------------        ---Yala----
Unit      1976/77   1977/78   1978/79        1977   1978
Rainfall and Runoff
Rainfall                       ft        2.64        3.30      2.70        1.67   0.91
Runoff                       ac ft    48.3         236.1    146.0         13.4    7.4
Yield per acre of
catchmentl/               ac ft/acre  0.171        0.837    0.518         0.048  0.026
Runoff as % of
rainfall 1/                    %       6.5         25.4     19.2          2.8    2.9
-------------------- ac ft ----------------
Water Balance
Initial storage                         9.0          8.3      74.0        53.9  192.0
Runoff                                 48.3        236.1    146.0         13.4    7.4
Rainfall direct in tank                26.6       117.1       80.0        22.0   20.8
Total stored water                    83.9       361.5    300.0          89.3  211.2
Irrigation issues                       2.8          6.7.    na           10.7   32.6
Losses                                  27.2       162.9      na          70.3  104.6
Final storage                          53.9       192.0      na            8.3   74.0
Total                                 83.9        361.5    300.0         89.3  211.2
Stored water per
command acre 2/                        2.6         11.3       7.1         2.8    6.6
% of Total Stored Water                    --------------------- % -------------------
Initial storage                        10.7          2.3      24.5        60.4   90.9
Runoff                                  57.6        65.3      48.7        15.0    3.5
Rainfall direct in tank                 31.7        32.4      26.7        24.6    9.8
Total                                100.0        100.0    100.0        100.0  100.0
Irrigation issues                        3.3         1.9       na         12.0   15.4
Losses                                  32.4        45.1       na         78.7   49.5
Final storage                           64.2        53.1       na          9.3   35.0
Total                                100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0  100.0
1/ Catchment area - 282 acres
2/ Command area - 32 acres



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Area Sown Under Minor Irrigation
('000 acres)
MAHA                                              YALA
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Mixed Zonal Pattern-
Ratnapura                 21.1       21.3      21.1       19.3       19.9      20.0    19.6    20.8    19.9    16.7
Badulla                   20.4       20.3      20.9       21.8       20.8        8.8     8.9      9.8    10.0      6.3
Puttalam                  12.6       17.6      20.9       18.2       18.1        3.3     5.7      7.4     5.0      3.6
Kurunegala                45.2       64.4      69.7       72.1       73.1      27.2    33.9    40.4    31.3    22.4
Matale                    13.9       15.5      16.7       17.6       18.3       6.8      5.9      8.0     8.0      8.1
Moneragala                 9.6        9.0       8.8        8.8        9.1       2.6      2.0      2.1     2.2      1.9
Dry Zone
Jaffna b/                  1.0        2.0       2.1        0.2        0.1       -        0.5      0.6     0.4      -
Jafna-  rb/                *          *         *          7.2        6.5       *        *0.4
Vavun1ya-                 14.3       25.8      28.1       20.4       19.3       0.4      0.4      0.8     0.8      0.3
Mannar                     4.3        5.9      10.6        8.0        8.4        1.3     ...      0.7      ...     -
Trincomalee                6.6        8.8       9.2        8.4        8.2       0.2      0.4      1.1     2.1      0.7
Batticaloa                 3.5        3.2        3.9       3.9        2.2       0.3      0.2      0.3     0.5      0.5
Amparai                    5.6        5.4        5.5       2.7        2.5        1.4     2.5      2.3     2.9      1.5
Hanbantota                 9.0        9.1       9.4       10.0        9.8        5.1     2.7      3.1     4.5      3.8
Total Project Area
Mixed zonal pattern      122.8      148.1     158.1      157.6      159.3      68.9    76.0    88.5    76.4    55.0
Dry Zone                  44.3       60.2      68.8       60.6       57.0        8.7     6.7      8.9    11.2      7.2
Total Project            167.1      208.3     226.5      218.4      216.3       77.6    82.7    97.4    87.6    62.2
Sri Lanka
Total                    273.7      339.3     388.2      373.0      364.0     139.8   135.0   162.6   145.9   107.9
a/  Ratnapura and Badulla are sometimes classified in the wet zone and Puttalam, Kurunegala, Matale and
Monaragala in the dry zone.
bh  Prior to 1978, Mullaitivu mainly in Vavuniya and partly in Jaffna.                                                   a t'i
Source: Department of Census and Statistics.



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Area Harvested as % Area Sown Under Minor Irrigation
MAHA                                              YALA
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80          1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Mixed Zonal Pattern-/
Ratnapura                   96         98          99         98         99         93      98      97      97      99
Badulla                    100        100          99         98         99        100      75      99      97      99
Puttalam                    87          94         94         84         93         98      41      97      81      24
Kurunegala                  89         95          98         98         86         87      21      96      89      23
Matale                      97         96          99         97         94         98      86      94      94      98
Moneragala                   88         92         99         95         98         98      96      98      94      95
Dry Zone
Jaffn-b/  b                 98          98         99         99        100                 95      99    100        -
Mullaiti-g*95                                                            97          *                              81
Vavuniya-                   68         99          96         96         98         47      78      98      89      88
Mannar                      14          85         67         88         89         27    ...       83    ...        _
Trincomalee                 99         97          97         97         95        100      94      99      98      96
Batticaloa                  89         91          86         71         92         71      95      78    100       73
Amparai                     98          94         89         93         99        100      91      85      83      90
Hambantota                   75         95         92         96         92        100      69      82      99      99
Sri Lanka
Total                        87         94         97         96         96         95      73      96      93      79
a/  Ratnapura and Badulla are sometimes classified in the wet zone, and Puttalam, Kurunegala, Matale and   
Monaragala in the dry zone.
b/ Prior to 1978, Mullaitivu mainly in Vavuniya and partly in Jaffna.
Source: Department of Census and Statistics.



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Average Yields under Minor Irrigation
(Bushels/acre, net harvested Area)
MAHA                                              YALA
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
a/
Mixed Zonal Pattern-
Ratnapura                   37         41        42         44         46         43       40       44       46      41
Badulla                     66         58         69        67         71         55       44       55       43      54
Puttalam                    33         37        40         41         34         29       29       34       34      29
Kurunegala                  40         51        46         49         62         32       34       38       35      42
Matale                      49         61         55        61         62         38       38       52       52      57
Moneragala                  44         53        47         56         50         47       41       48       48      41
Dry Zone
Jaffna b/                   45         36        37         35         na         -        na       19      40       -
Mullaitiv-                  *          *         *          53         47         *        *        *        *       44
Vavuniyab/                  27        49         49         52         42         na       33       na       39      33
Mannar                      29         63        58         69         43         na       ...      60       na      -
Trincomalee                 42        45         38         44         40         55       44       39       36      46
Batticaloa                  41        40         41         44         66         44       71       40       51      49
Amparai                     49        42         58         50         65         35       46       50      46       57
Hambantota                  47        52         46         59         47         40       33       47       50      45
Sri Lanka
Total                      46         52         56        !55         57         40       41       45      46       47
a/  Ratnapura and Badulla are sometimes classified in the wet zone, and Puttalam, Kurunegala, Matale and
Monaragala in the dry zone.
b/  Prior to 1978, Mullaitivu mainly in Vavuniya and partly in Jaffna.                                                        X
Source: Department of Census and Statistics.



-55 -                                                     ANNEX 1
Chart 1
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. Probability of occurance of periods of 7 days of consecutive rainless days
(Maha-Illuppallama Data)
100
80
5,
60
.0
2
a.
20
0~
I  I  T  r   T     I   V   T     I 
4   8  12  16  20  24  28  32  36  40  44  48  52
JAN                   Standard weeks                      DEC
(Over 7 days)
II. Probability of occurance of moisture stress periods
(Maha-liluppallama Data)
100
80
60
40
20
0              I .     .                 ., 1,  1
4   8  12  16  20  24  28  32  36  40  44 48  52
JAN                   Standard weeks                    DEC
(Over 7 days)
World Bank - 22357



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE DRY ZONE CATENA
(Generalized Sketch)
Watershed
Paddy
Water Table                                                                                                            Fed
Top Soil  orTsDry Season                                                                                                  Village
VVQ  l  Water Table                                                     Bund              \                 \
I                              I                                   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
Groundwater             Little or None       Near Surface  -..        at Surface                              Tank                 I     Near      i      Irrigated
Wet Season                                                                                                                        i |   Surface S
I      T                        j                                    Ilo e  an
Groundwater                None o              None       |aLittle S            Some                          Tank                       Near             Irrigated
Dry Season                                                                                                                             Surface
Traditional               Jungle                Jungle, Chena              Jungle, Chena                      Tank                 I                       Paddy
Land Use                 J                      (Dry Grains)             (Including Elvi)                                        I   Garden
Source: Agricultural Research and Training Institute                                                                                                           World Bank - 22351
3- Z
, m
rt X4



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Approximate No. of Schemes
Proposed for Rehabilitation: 1981-85
Estimated no. of Village Schemes          Approximate No. of Schemes           No. Included
Total in      Over 20 acres in        Proposed for Rehabilitation           Under RD Projects
Operating Order  Command Area in
Operating Order         Surveys         Construction
1.  Amparai                 122                78                   72                60
2.  Badulla                 289*               na                 192*               160*
3.  Batticaloa             146                 na                  50                 40                     -
4.  Hambantota              464               160                   48                40                    87-/
5.  Jaffna                  442#               na                   48                40                     -3
6.  Kurunegala           4,200*             1,090*                 360               300*                 (425)-
7.  Mannar                  202                76                   72                60                     -
8.  Matale                  240*               na                  12                 10                    40-
9.  Monaragala              197               115                  120               100                     -              n
10.  Mullaitivu              145                na                   60                50                     - 4/
11.  Puttalam                841               300                   36                30                   200 -
12.  Ratnapura               410*               na                  132*              110*                    -
13.  Trincomalee             213               139                  108                90
14.  Vavuniya                705               465                  132               110                     -
TOTAL                8,616              3,000-/             1,440              1,200                   752
*  Including anicuts.
T IncIudfng ponds.
na Not available.                                                                                                          X X
1/  Assuming approximately 35% of all village tank schemes are between 20-200 acres.  (The proportion for the
eight districts for which information is available).
2/  Provisional estimate under NORAD project.
3/  Original estimate under Kurunegala Rural Development (RD) project was 500 but cost escalation is estimated
to reduce the number possible with the funds available to about 400-450 by end-1983.
4/  As ir the IDA-supported RD-II Project.
Note:  Kurunegala and Hambantota will be brought under the project when the minor irrigation components under the
Rural Development projects are completed in 1983.  The comparable date for Matale and Puttalam is assumed
to be 1984.



- 58-                          ANNEX 2
Table 2
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Analysis of Civil Works Costs:  Based on Preliminary
1/
Estimates for Schemes to be Rehabilitated in 1981-/
1             2                  3             4             5
Average
Data for                         Irrigated      Average       Cost per
No. of Tanks   No. of Tanks       Area of the    Irrigated   Acre Analyzed
Furnished      Considered          Tanks in      Area per    for Tanks in
District   on 1981 List  For Analysis 2/        Col. 2          Tank          Col. 2
No.              No.            (Acres)        (Acres)      (Rs/Acre)
Amparai       11               11                666            61          4830
Badulla       28               27              1510            56           4000
Batticaloa     7                 5               620          (80) 3/       4970
Hambantota    20               17                765           45           4350
Jaffna         6                6               765           (85) 3/       3100
Kurunegala    95                90              3539           39           4700
Mannar        13                 9               601           67           5000
Matale         12               11               933            85          3800
Monaragala    17               13                970           75  3/       4342
Mullaitivu    15                12              1135           (75) 3/      3680
Puttalam      40               37              2716            73           4180
Ratnapura      5                4               195            49           3550
Trincomalee   44               39              3339            86           3000
Vavunya        61               49              3534           72           4713
TOTAL      374              330             21288           (65) 4/       4150 (Or say   5/
Rs 270,0n0 ner iScheme)
1/ Based on preliminary DI estimates for 374 schemes provisionally scheduled for
- implementation in 1981.  this list included estimates for i.arbantota, Kurunegala,
Matale and Puttalam which will not in practice be included in the project until
1983/84. The estimates are at 1980 prices.
2/ Excluding those tanks which on first inspection cannot meet the agreed criteria.
1/ The actual averages for Batticaloa, Jaffna and Mullaitivu (124 acres, 128 acre-
and 95 acres respectively) appear high by the standards of other districts 4iven
the relatively few sample tanks, and have been arbitrarily reduced.
.  On basis of assumed average acreages for Batticaloa, Jaffna and -ullaiitivu.
5/ Including engineering and administration.



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sample Estimates for Typical Tanks: BY Method of Construction-/
50 Acres Command - Manual Construction                                            71 Acres Command - Machine Construction
Total          Share of Total Costs                                              Total             Share of Total Costs
Quantity      Basic Rate      Cost        F.E.       Unskilled    Fuel         Quantity       Basic Rate       Cost            F.E.      Unskilled    Fuel
LaboC,                                                                              Labor
-------- ::Rs --------------                                                   --------- Rs -------------
Bund
Medium jungle clearing               1.5 acres    1815 Rs/cu    2,722.5         24.o         --           -            2 acres    1815 Rs/ac        3,630.0           32.0   3,300.0
Stripping, benching old bund         200 cubes    36,6 Rs/cu    7,320.0         60.0       2,475.0       -          250 cubes    36.6 Rs/ac         9,150.0           75.0   8,325.0           -
Earth excavation                  2,000 cubes    65.9 Rs/cu  131,800.0   7,200.0    110,400.0   3,600.0    2,750 cubes    77.9 Rs/cu    214,225.0    124,300.0   2,750.0    53,625.0
Strip turfing                        250 sq.       36.8 Rs/sq    9,200.0   3,075.0          3,950.0   1,875,0       300 sq.        36.g Rs/sq      11,040.0        3,690.0   3,690.0       2,250.0
Sub-total                                          151,042.5  10,359.0    116,825.0   5,475.0                                        238,045.0    128,097.0  18,325.0    55,875.0
(70%)                                                                             (73%)
Spillway
Repairs etc. to existing structure                 Lumpsum         5,000.0  2,000.0        1,848.0       119.0                     lunps'ss          6,000.0       2,218.0   2,337.0          143.0
Excavation for foundations             20 cubes   48.5 Rs/cu         970.0        8.0         882.0        -          30 cubes    48.5 Rs/cu         1,455.0          12.0   1,323.0            -
Concrete work                           6 cubes   2208.0 Rs/cu  13,248.0  5,212.8          2,352.5       336.0        10 cubes    2208 Rs/cu       22,080.0        8,688.0   7,842.0          560.0
Sub-total                                            19,218.0  7,220.8        5,082.5       455.0                                     29,535.0       10,918.0  11,502.0          703.0
(9%)                                                                             (9%)
Sluice
Repairs to existing sluice                         lumpsum         2,000.0    400.0           200.0        -                       lumpsum           4,000.0         800.0      400.0
Provision of 9" HRme type sluice                   1 no.          18,000.0  3,600.0         1,800.0        -                        1 no.          :3,000.0        3,600.0   1,800.0
Sub-total                                            20,000.0  4,000.0         2,000.0        -                                       22,000.0        4,400.0   2,200.0
(9%)                                                                             (7%)
Distribution System
Excavation -                           50 acres   250 Rs/acre   12,500.0    100.0          11,365.0        -          70 acres    250 Rs/acre    17,500.0            140.0  15,900.0            -
Provision of control structures        50 acres   250 Rs/acre    1,250.0  5,625,0           5,000.0      312,50       70 acres    250 Rs/acre    17,500.0          7,875.0   7,000.0          437.5
Sub-total                                            25,000.0  5,725.0       16,365.0      312.50                                     35,000.0        8,015.0  22,900.0         437.5
(11%)
GRAND TOTAL:  CIVIL WORKS                                        215,260.5  27,304.8   140,272.5   6,242.5                                        32118l0.0    151,430.0  54,927.0    57,015.5
% of Total Cost                                                     100%       13%           65%         3%                                          100%           47%       17%            18%
1/ Main supply channels only:  field channel and drainage system to be undertaken by farmer labor.                                                                                                      x
2/  Sample estimates and designs of other typical schemes (including anicuts) are available in the project file.



- 60 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 4
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sample Estimate: Typical Anicut - 60 Acres Command
Share in Total Cost
Quantity      Basic Rate      Total Cost      F.E.        Unskilled    Fuel
Labor
-------------------  Rs ---------------------
Anicut
Earth excavation                  100 cubes    48.5 Rs/cu         4,850.0         40.0       4,410.0        -
Aniuct structure                   65 cubes    2208 Rs/cu       143,520.0   56,472.0         25,486.5    3,640.0
Gates                               2 no.       9000 Rs          18,000.0    9,000.0            900.0       -
Miscellaneous                       5%                             9,422.5    1,884.5         3,769.0       942.5
Sub-total                                          175,792.5   67,396.5         34,565.5    4,582.5
(67%)
Sluice
Earth excavation                    5 cubes    48.5 Rs/cu            242.5        10.0          241.5       -
Concrete work on sluice             5 cubes    2205.0 Rs/cu    11,025.0    4,344.0            1,960.5       280.0
Sluice gate etc.                                  sum              1,000.0       500.0           50.0       -
Sub-total                                            12,267.5    4,854.0         2,252.0       280.0
(5%)
Channel
Earth excavation                  500 cubes    48.5 Rs/cu        24,250.0        970.0      22,050.0        -
Channel structures                  6 no.      3000.0 Rs/cu       18,000.0    8,100.0         7,200.0       450.0
Sub-total                                           42,250.0   10,070.0         29,250.0       450.0
(16%)
Distribution System
Excavation 1/                      60 acres    250 Rs/acre        15,000.0       120.0       13,632.5       -
Provision of control structures  60 acres    250 Rs/acre          15,000.0    6,750.0         6,000.0       375.0
Sub-total                                            30,000.0    6,870.0        19,632.5       375.0
(12%)
GRAND TOTAL:  Civil Works                                        260,310.0   89,190.5        85,700.0    5,687.5
% of Total                                                         100%          34%           33%          2%
1/ Main supply channel - field channel and drainage system to be undertaken by farmer labor.



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT DIRECTION
National Committee for Village Irrigation Rehabilitation: Chairman - Chairman of the MDA
Secretary -In Ministry of Lands (MLDD)
|    Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Porject: Steering Committee Chairman -Secretary, MLDDl
|                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary -In Department of Irrigationl
District Coordinating Committees: Chairman- Government Agent
Secnetary - District Development Officer
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Coordination
Ministry of Lands and Land Development                                                                                        Mnistry of Agriculture 
| ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~~Mngmn                                            Minor Irrigation  Water Management             Eninern O                                   trn   n 
I
I   Department of Irrigation                                                         Department of Agrarian Services    l
Project 
anagee t                                 Divr ision             DivWater Managementis   E ngineering                   University of Peradeniya
l  Division  l                   l     Dlv'sion      l l      Division     l        Division                        Department of Agriculture
L Freeedom from Hunger Campaign                                                >
Department of Census and Statistics
Range                  Range                  Range                                 Regional               Regional               Regional                                                                                                  t'M
Officg                 Office                 Office                                 Office                 Office                 Office
World Bank - 22352



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN SERVICES
ORGANIZATION CHART (EXISTING)
HEAD OFFICE
IMPLEMENTATION OF
AGRARIAN SERVICES ACT                                  Commissioner of                            MINOR IRRIGATION
Agrarian Services
Deputy                  Deputy                   Deputy                 Deputy                    Chief
Commissioner           Commissioner:            Commissioner:            Commissioner               Engineer
Legal                  Services             Administration          Minor Irrigation
Assistant              3 Assistant              2 Assistant               Assistant               Irrigation
Commissioner            Commissioner:           Commissioners             Commissioner               Engineer
l                                         to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.
DISTRICT OFFICE                                             I
|   Assistant Commissioner        |          
Support Services
Divisional Officers           Senior Technical Assistants  L     -
Agrarian Service Centers
Cultivation Officer   1          Technical Assistants
l  l   l      Grades 11, III
Works Supervisors
World Bank   22354



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN SERVICES
ORGANIZATION CHART (PROPOSED)
IMPLEMENTATION OF                                                                                                  MINOR IRRIGATION AND
AGRARIAN SERVICES ACT                                                HEAD OFFICE                                       WATER MANAGEMENT
|    Comm issi.ner of              I
|    Agrarian Services             l
l  Deputv                   Deputy        l    l       Deputy                   Deputy        |          Deputy        ll                         Che          l
Commissioner:            Commissioner:             Commissioner:            Commissioner:             Commissioner:
Legal       l          Services               Administration           Minor Irrigation        Water Management                             Engineer
l  Assistant  l   l    3 Assistant    |    |    2 Assistant    l    l       Assistant                Assistant                  Irrigation                   a
|   Commissioner   |   |  Commissioner:|    | Commissioners  |    t  Commissioner   |   [cCommissioner m       o                   Engineer                  Enagineer
[    G DISTRICTOFFICES                                                                               REGIONALOFFICES
Assistant Commissioner                                                                              Engineer
Support Services                                                                           SpotSrie
n   Tecnical           Snotr T echnica
Assistants         Assistants Water         Water Management
Maintenance            Management          Implementation Teams.
Agronomists
Technical Asistants
Divsional Officers
Agrarian Service Centers
Cu ltvation Officers                                                Technical
Cultivation Officers                                                          Assistants         Tank Supervisors
Grades I1, III
World Bank - 22353



- 64 -                                         ANNEX 3
Table I
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prolect Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures-/
Local    Foreign    Total        1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
-------------------------------- - '000    Rs    -----
Civil Works-/
Surveys and Investigations           6.5       0.7         7.2      0.8       0.8      1.6     2.1      2.0      -
Department of Irrigation           220.0      77.3       297.3        -      15.9    39.7    62.0    89.3    90.5
Department of Agrarian Services   21.8         3.3        25.0       -         -        -      6.3      8.8    10.0
Sub-total                     248.3     81.3       329.6       0.8      16.7    41.3    70.3   100.0   100.5
Physical Contingencies (10%)        24.2       8.1        32.2       -        1.6      4.0     6.8      9.8    10.1
Supervision & Administration
(10%)                             31.9      3.6        35.5        -        1.8     4.4      7.5    10.8    11.1
Less Depreciation of Construc-
tion Equipment3/                  -1.1    -12.7       -13.7        -         -     -2.9    -3.6    -3.6    -3.6
Total Civil Works             303.3     80.3       383.6       0.8      20.1    46.8    81.0   117.0   118.1
Equipment
4/
Department of Irrigation-        5/  3.4      35.3        38.7       -       26.1    11.2      1.5      -        -
Department of Agrarian Services-   0.8         6.7         7.5       -        2.2      4.9     0.2      0.2      -
Sub-total                       4.2     42.1        46.2        -       28.3    16.1      1.7      0.2     -
Incremental Staff Costs
Department of Irrigation             2.5       -           2.5       -        0.2      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.6
Dept. of Agrarian Services           5.5       -           5.5        -       0.1      0.9      1.2     1.4      1.8
Sub-total                       8.0      -           8.0        -        0.4     1.5      1.8      2.0     2.3
Other Incremental Costs
Department of Irrigation             6.5       1.5         7.9       -        0.1      1.1      1.6     2.2      2.9
Dept. of Agrarian Services           4.6       1.6         6.2        -       0.1      1.2      1.4     1.6      1.9
Sub-total                      11.1       3.0       14.1        -        0.2     2.3      3.0      3.8     4.8
Training, Evaluation and
Technical Assistance
Training (DAS)                       4.7       0.5         5.2       -        1.3      1.7     0.9      0.8     0.5
Evaluation Studies 6/                5.0       1.0         5.9      0.2       1.1      1.7     1.1      1.0     0.8
Technical Assistance                 1.2       1.9         3.1       -        0.5      1.0     0.7      0.4     0.4
Sub-total                     10.9       3.4        14.3       0.2       3.0     4.5      2.7     2.2      1.7
BASE COSTS                         337.4    128.7       466.0       1.0      51.8    71.1    90.2   125.2   126.7
Price Contingencies 7/             276.6      41.6       318.2      0.1       8.9    28.6    57.1   100.9   122.7
GRAND TOTAL                        614.0    170.3       784.3       1.1      60.7    99.7   147.3   226.1   249.5
1/  Base costs at mid-1980 prices.  Totals may not add up due to rounding.  Detailed estimates for each
item available in project file.
2/ See Annex 3, Table 2.
3/  Depreciation of construction equipment used in DI civil works program and accounted for in costs of
equipment supplied under. the project.
4/ Assuming 70% of DI equipment (excluding workshop equipment) delivered end-1981, and the balance in early-
1982. Workshop equipment delivered in early 1983.
5/ Assuming 30% of DAS equipment delivered end-1981, and the balance (including all construction equipment)
delivered early-1982. Bicycles and motorcycles purchased in line with growth in operational staff.
6/ Including Physical Resource Evaluation Study; Socio-economic Evaluation Study; FFHC; and Department of
Census and Statistics.
7/ Price contingencies as follows:
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984       1985
Local Costs           25.0      25.0     15.0      12.0      10.0      8.0
Foreign Costs         12.5      9.0       8.5       7.5       7.5      7.5



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimates of Average Cost of Civil Works
at Current Prices and Approximate Number of Project Schemes
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985        Total
Project Costs at
Current Prices: (M Rs)
Surveys & Investigations (DI)             0.8        1.0       2.5       3.5       3.7      -           11.5
Civil Works (DI)                            -       23.7      68.3    119.8    190.6    209.7          612.0
Civil Works (DAS)                          -          -         -       12.6     19.5      24.2         56.3
Total Civil Works                         0.8       24.6      70.7    135.9    213.8    233.9          679.6
Other Project Costs                        0.3      36.0      29.0      11.4     12.4      15.5        104.7
Total Project Costs                        1.1      60.7      99,7    147.3    226.1    249.5          784.3
Approximate Average Cost
Current Prices (Rs)
Surveys and Investigations fPI)          5,000    6,250    7,800    8,500    9,250          -           na
Civil Works per Scheme (DI)-1/         300,000  365,000  425,000  480,000  530,000   575,000            na
Civil Works per Scheme (DAS)-           60,000      -         -     100,000  111,000   120,000          na
Approximate Number of Schemes
Surveys and Investigations (DI)            150       160       320       410      400       -          1,440
Number of Schemes (DI)                       -        65       160       250       360      365        1,200
Number of Schemes (DAS)                      -        -         -        125       175      200           500
Total Area-' (ha)
Rehabilitated by DI                          -     1,700    4,200    6,550    9,450    9,600          31,500
Modernized by DAS                            -       -         -       3,300    4,600    5,250        13,150
1/  Including physical contingencies(10)and supervision and administration (10%).
2/ Assuming 26.25 ha per scheme (65 acres).



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Construction Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
Total   cif ex-factory (Rs 000)         Method of                  Procurement Schedule It
No.    Unit Cost    Total Cost    Procurement           a        b                 d d      e        f
R____-- Rs 000o -----
I. Department of Irrigation
1. Crawler Tractor with
bulldozer attach-
ment (100 HP)                  5      1,800.00        9,000.00            ICB       1/81     3/81    5/81       6/81    8/81   11/81
2. Front End Loader
(11/2 - 2 cu yd)               5        990.00       4,950.00             ICB        "        "        "
3. Tractor with trailers
(3.5 ton)                     25        180.00       4,500.00             ICB        "        "        "
4. Tractor fitted with
water tanker trailer
(500 galls.)                   5        220.00       1,100.00             ICB        "        "        "
5. Water pump 2" to be
fitted to the water
tanker                        10          5.00           50.00             PS        -        -        -         -        -     11/81
6. Sheep foot roller
(11/2 - 2 tons)                5        319.00       1,595.00             ICB      1/81      3/81    5/81       6/81    8/81  11/81
7.  Vibrating earth rammer        30          18.00         540.00            ICB       "          "        "         "
Sub-total                                     21,735.00
II. Department of Agrarian Services
1. Crawler tractor with
bulldozer attachment
(100 HP)                       2      1,800.00       3,600.00             ICB      1/81      3/81    5/81       6/81    8/81   2/82
2.  Vibrating earthrammer           9         18.00         162.00            ICB       "          "        "         "
Sub-total                                      3,762.00
GRAND TOTAL                                   25,497.00
1/  a - Specification and bid package to IDA.
b - Invitation to bid.
c - Opening of Bids.
d - Evaluation Report to IDA.
e - Award of contract.
f - Delivery at site.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Vehicles List and Procurement Schedule
Total   cif ex-factory (Rs 000)    Method of                       Procurement Schedulel/
No.    Unit Cost    Total Cost   Procurement          a        b        c        d        e        f
--------Rs 000---------
I.  Irrigation Department
A.  Project Coordination
and Evaluation 21/
1.  Passenger Car                   2       125.00          250.00           ICB         1/81    3/81    5/81    6/81    8/81   11/81
2. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - long wheel
base                          2       140.00        280.00            ICB           "        "        "       "
3. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - short
wheel base                    1       100.00        100.00            ICB                    "                "        "
4.  Pick-up truck - 3 ton           1       200.00         200.00            ICB          "           "        "        "     "
Sub-total                                         830.00
B.  Construction Program
1. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - long wheel
base                         10       140.00      1,400.00            ICB        1/81    3/81       5/81    6/81    8/81   11/81
2. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - short
wheel base                   14       100.00      1,400.00            ICB          "        "         "        "       "
3.  5-ton Truck                    12       282.00      3,384.00             ICB         "
4.  10-ton Truck                    2       550.00       1,100.00            ICB         "        "         "        "
Sub-total                                       7,284.00
C.  Quality Control
1. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - long wheel
base                          7       140.00        980.00            ICB        1/81     3/81      5/81    6/81      8/81   11/81
2. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - short
wheel base                    2       100.00        200.00            ICB          "
3.  Pick up truck - 3-ton           1       200.00         200.00            ICB                  "         "        "
Sub-total                                       1,380.00
D. Workshop Support
1. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - long
wheel base                    2       140.00        280.00            ICB         3/82    5/82      7/82     8/82   10/82    1/83
2. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - fitted with
arc welding unit              2       160.00        320.00            ICB
3.  Pick-up truck - 3-ton           2       200.00         400.00            ICB         "                                             IT
Sub-total                                       1,000.00
II. Department of Agrarian Services
1.  Passenger car                   2       125.00         250.00            ICE        1/81     3/81    5/81       6/81     8/81   11/81
2. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - long
wheel base                    4       140.00        560.00            ICB                                               "
3. Four-wheel drive land
vehicle - short
wheel base                   13       100.00      1,300.00            ICB                   "                 "
4.  Motorcycle   3/                16         17.50        280.00             PS
5.  Bicycle   3/                  160          1.00        160.00             PS
Sub-total                                       2,550.00
III.      GRAND TOTAL                                        13,044.00
1/ See footnote to Annex 3, Table 3.
2/ Including vehicles for Ministry of Lands and Land Development.
3/ Purchased in line with build-up in staff.



- 68 -                                               ANNEX 3
Table 5
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION RERABILITATION PROJECT
Miscellaneous Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
Total   cif ex-factory (Rs 000)        Method of                  Procurement Schedulel/
No.    Unit Cost    Total Cost    Procurement           a        b       c       d        e        f
------ Rs 000 --------
I. Irrigation Department
A. Survey Instruments
1.  Theodolites                    14        44.70         625.80            ICB           1/81   3/81    5/81   6/81   8/81    11/81
2.  Levelling Instrument Sets   30           17.50         525.00            ICB            "
Sub-total                                       1,150.80
B. Drawing Instruments
1.  Drawing Instrument Sets        40         1.00          40.00            ICB          1/81   3/81    5/81   6/81   8/81    11/81
2.  Lettering Sets                 30         2.50          75.00            ICB            "      "
3.  Plan Printing Machines          9        42.00         378.00            ICB            "
4.  Drawing Materials           Lumpsum                    200.00             PS            -      -        -       -       -       11/81
Sub-total                                        693.00
C.  Tools                           Lumpsum                     410.00             PS           -       -        -       -      -       11/81
D.  Office Equipment                Lumpsum                     180.00             PS           -       -        -      -       -       11/81
E. Supplementary Workshop Equip.
1.  Jacks:  Sets                    2         1.50          15.00            ICB           3/82   5/82    7/82   8/82  10/82         1/83
2.  Heavy duty general
Service Kits                 4        50.00          200.00            ICB           "       "        "
3.  Electricians Tool Chests        2        10.00          20.00            ICB            "      "        "
4.  Diesel fuel Injector
Hand Tester Bench Type        2         5.00          10.00            ICB           "       "
5.  Servicing Air Compressor        2        45.00          90.00            ICB            "      "
6.  Heavy Duty Grease Gun           4         2.50           10.00            PS            -      -        -       -       -        1/83
Sub-total                                        345.00
F. Quality Control Equipment
1.  Quality Control Instru.         7 sets  70.98          496.86           ICB/PS        1/81   3/81    5/81   6/81   8/81    11/81
2.  Concrete Testing Machine        1        70.00          70.00            ICB           "
3.  Photocopying Machine (HO)    1           70.00          70.00            ICB           "       "
4. Temporary Sheds to house
Field Units                  7        50.00          350.00             PS           -       -        -      -       -       11/81
Sub-total                                        986.86
II. Department of Agrarian Services
A. Survey Instruments
1.  Theodolites                     3        44.70         134.10            ICB          1/81   3/81    5/81   6/81   8/81    11/81
2.  Levelling Instrument Sets   12           17.50         210.00            ICB            "      "        "
3.  Measuring tapes               100         0.125         12.50             PS           -       -        -       -       -      11/81
Sub-total                                        356.60
B.  Office Equipment                Lumpsum                     215.00             PS           -       -        _      _       -       11/81
C.  Miscellaneous Drawing
Equipment                    Lumpsum                     100.00             PS           -       -        _       _      -       11/81
GRAND TOTAL                                    4,487.26
1/ See footnote to Annex 3, Table 3.



- 69 -                           ANNEX 3
Table
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                                            Accumulated
and Semester                     Disbursements            Disbursements
1982
1st Semester                         0.5                      0.5
2nd Semester                         2.5                      3.0
1983
1st Semester                         1.5                      4.5
2nd Semester                         2.0                      6.5
1984
1st Semester                         2.0                      8.5
2nd Semester                         3.0                     11.5
1985
1st Semester                         3.5                     15.0
2nd Semester                         3.5                     18.5
1986
1st Semester                         4.0                     22.5
2nd Semester                         4.0                     26.5
1987
1st Semester                         3.5                     30.0



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Schemes for Rehabilitation
1.        The VIR project is primarily intended for the rehabilitation of
village irrigation schemes with developed, cultivable lands already available
but where full benefits are not being obtained due to the tank or anicut not
functioning at full efficiency. This objective should be taken into account
in selecting schemes for inclusion in the project. It does not preclude
expansion of the irrigable area where this is warranted, provided the scheme
so selected meets the agreed selection criteria.
2.        The highest priority for rehabilitation ought to be given to those
minor schemes providing the greatest returns to improvements and repair, full
account being also taken of any interactions between neighboring tanks in
the same catchment or between anicuts on the same stream. Therefore, tank
systems that are out of use because of recent damage to bund, spillway or
sluice and where, with a relatively small investment, the total command area
can be brought back into irrigated production should receive attention first.
Similarly, repairs to working projects where major damage within the next few
years is very probable are urgent. Long abandoned schemes that would require
almost complete reconstruction or comparatively "safe" systems should be
considered at a later stage. Within these broad guidelines, schemes included
in the project will be selected according to the following criteria:
Village Tanks
(i)  The command area under a tank should not be less than 20 acres,
except if a tank is one in a cascade and requires improvements
to provide safety for the tanks downstream and as long as the
additional tank(s) individually meet the criteria referred to
under (iii), (iv), (vi) and (viii) hereunder;
(ii)  Tanks in inhabited areas with easy access should be given
priority;
(iii)  The useful storage of the tank should not be less than 3 ac. ft
per acre, 2.5 ac. ft per acre, and 1.5 ac ft per acre of command
area in the Dry, Intermediate and Wet Zones, respectively; 1/
1/   For the purposes of interpreting these criteria, the Dry, Intermediate
and Wet Zones are defined as the respective areas where the average
southwest monsoon rainfall is below 10 inches (250 mm), between 10-20
inches (250-500 mm) and above 20 inches (500 mm).



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(iv) The useful tank storage in the Dry, Intermediate and Wet Zones
should not exceed 70% of the yield potentials computed from
iso-yield curves of the Irrigation Department;
(v) The tank should benefit at least ten families;
(vi) The incremental area brought under direct maha irrigation
should be at least ten times privately irrigated lands
submerged or 3 times other cultivated lands submerged.
The incremental area is defined below:
Incremental area = A2 - AI
Where:
A  =  command area in maha before project.
A  =  command area in maha after project.
2
(vii) The soils of the catchment area, reservoir and the command
area should be suitable for their respective purposes.
(viii) The maximum cost for a project including all civil works
and physical contingencies valued at mid 1980 prices but
excluding price contingencies, engineering and administra-
tion is computed as follows:
Maximum cost = 5,000 A1+ C (A2 -  A1)
Where:
C = Cost per acre for the incremental area, provisionally
estimated at Rs 10,000/acre.
Village Anicuts
(i) The command area under an anicut should not be less than
20 acres.
(ii) Anicut schemes in inhabited areas with easy access should be
given priority.
(iii) Hydrological data, historic evidence and/or separate inves-
tigations for an independent anicut should demonstrate that
the base flow in the stream during the six weeks after the
termination of the maha rains does not fall below the
requirements of the command area at a duty of 35, 40 and
45 acres per cusec respectively, for the Dry, Intermediate
and Wet Zones;



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(iv) The anicut should benefit at least ten families;
(v) The soils of the command area should be suitable; and
(vi) The maximum cost for a project including all civil works
and physical contingencies valued at mid 1980 prices but
excluding price contingencies, engineering and administra-
tion is computed as follows:
Maximum cost = 5,000 A1 + C (A2 -  A1)
Where:
C = Cost per acre for the incremental area provisionally
estimated at Rs 10,000/acre.
3.        These criteria will be reviewed during the course of project imple-
mentation to ensure they continue to meet project requirements. Criteria
(iii) and (iv) for village tanks in particular will require further assessment.
They are based on design specifications presently followed by the DI. 1/ Tank
catchment yields are now estimated on the basis of iso-yield curves computed
by the DI's Hydrology Division from systematic collection and analysis of
stream flow, rainfall and other hydrologic data for the period 1943 to 1977.
Recently developed flood hydrographs for unguaged catchments will be used to
determine inflow design floods and the estimation of the required spillway
capacities. These modified design criteria--for village tanks--are mainly
based on data collected for relatively large catchments and may therefore be
subject to improvement. However, until such time as results from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture's Physical Resource Evaluation Study are forthcoming and
modifications are agreed to by IDA, the present criteria for tank selection
will be followed.
1/   Design guidelines have been spelled out in Technical Note No. 2:
"Design of Embankments for Village Tanks and Medium Reservoirs," irri-
gation Department, December 1980, and replace earlier procedures using
Strange's yield curves for two locations (Kalawena and Minneriya).



- 73-                                         ANNEX 5
Table I
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cropping Intensities and Cropped Areas Assumed for Economic and Financial Analysis
Dry Zone (75%)         Intermediate Zone (25%)        Total Project (100%)
Present/    Future          Present/    Future           Present/       Future
Future Without   With       Future Without   With        Future Without    With
I. INTENSITIES
Command Area
% Rainfed                      25.0          -            15.0           -              22.5            -
% Irrigated                    75.0        100.0          85.0         100.0            77.5          100.0
Area Sown as % of
Commanded Area
Paddy:  Rainfed Maha           17.50         -            11.25          -              16.0            -
:  Irrigated Maha         52.50        85.0          72.25         90.0           57.5           86.25
:  Irrigated Yala          3.75       15.0           25.00         50.0            9.0           23.75
Upland:  Irrigated Yala           -           5.0            -            10.0            -              6.25
Area Harvested as %
Area Sown
Paddy     Rainfed Maha              75         -               85          -               77            -
Irrigated Maha           85         95              95          95              88             95
Irrigated Yala           80         85              85          90              83             87.5
Upland    Irrigated Yala           -           85              -           90              -              87
II. AREAS
Command Area
Rainfed                        5,905         -            1,180          -             7,085             -
Irrigated                     17,720      23,625          6,695       7,875           24,415          31,500
Area Sown
Paddy:  Rainfed Maha           4,135         -               885        -              5,020             -
Irrigated Maha       12,405      20,080           5,690       7,090          18,095          27,170
Irrigated Yala           885       3,545          1,970       3,940           2,855           7,485
Upland:  Irrigated Yala           -         1,180             -           790             -             1,970
Area Harvested
Paddy : Rainfed                3,100          -              755        -              3,855             -
Irrigated Maha      10,545      19,075           5,405       6,730          15,950          25,805
Irrigated Yala          705      3,010           1,675       3,545           2,380           6,555
Upland:  Irrigated Yala          -         1,005             -           710             -             1,715



_ 74 _                          ANNEX 5
Table 2
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial   and Economic AnalysisILL
Financial Prices            Economic Prices
1980         1990           1980        1990
Agricultural Outputs: Rs/kg
Paddy            5             2.521/       4.003/         3.72-/      4.8
Chillies55dried)-             19.85        19.85          17.85       17.85
Cowpea  -                      4.75         4.75           4.25        4.25
Agricultural Inputs
Fertilizer (Rs/ton)
Urea                         2.26 6/      7.18           5.76        7.18
TSP                          2.38 6/      6.20           5.03        6.20
MP                           1.90 6/      3.93           3.85        3.93
Weighted Average 7/          2.26         6.56           5.35        6.56
Labor (Rs/manday)
Slack Period                   12.0         12.0           9.6 8/       9.6 8/
Peak Period                    18.0         18.0          16.2 9/      16.2 9/
Farm Power
Four wheel tractor (rs/hr)   80.0           92.0          98.4        113.3
Animal pair (Rs/day)           21.0         23.0          18.9         20.7
Other
Transport (Rs/km)               1.00        1.32          1.52          1.70
Diesel (Rs/gal)                21.50       28.80         29.10         39.00
1/  Economic Prices for internationally traded goods based on EPDCE "Commoditv
Price Forecast-TJpdatfng", November 12, 1980.
2/ 52.5 Rs/bushel - GPS price for 1980/81 maha crop.
3/ Assuming differential between GPS price and economic price narrows to 20%
by 1990. The remaining difference reflects the operation of a floor and
ceiling price system and seasonal fluctations.
4/ Import based price. For purposes of economic analysis Sri Lanka assumed
to remain a rice importer during life of project.
5/ Financial price adjusted by Standard Conversion Factor (0.9).
6/ After allowing for assumed 125% increase in urea prices in 1981 budget, and 75%
increase in prices of TSP and MP,and assuming subsidy is removed by 1990.
7/ Urea - 60%, TSP - 30%, MP - 10%.
8/ Financial wage adjusted by an assumed shadow wage rate of 0.8.
9/ Financial wage converted at Standard Conversion factor of 0.9.



- 75 -                            ANNEX 5
Table 3
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Calculation of Construction Conversion Factor
Conversion   Mach. Int    Lab. Int.    Anicuts   Weighted
Factor     Operations   Operations    (5%)        Average
(38%)        (57%)
Traded Items               1.00           26             9           29         17
Fuel                       1.50           16             3            1          8
Non-traded Items           0.90           33            20           31         25
Unskilled labor            0.80           15            59           30         41
Supervision and
Administration           0.90            9             9            9          9
TOTAL                  -            100           100          100       100
Conversion Factor           -            100            87           91         92
Notes: 1.  Assuming 5% of total schemes are anicuts, 40% of all tank schemes are
undertaken by machine operations, and 60% of all tank schemes by labor
intensive methods.
2. Distribution between traded, fuel, non-traded and unskilled labor
derived from Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4, with an allowance for supervision
and administration equivalent to 10% other costs.
3. Conversion factor for fuel and unskilled labor derived from Annex 5,
Table 2, assuming labor employed during off peak period. Non-traded
items and supervision and administration converted at the Standard
Conversion Factor (0.9).



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements and Yields
(per hectare)
Manual Labor        Tractor
Seed     Fertilizer    Pesticides    Peak   Off Peak    Inputs          Misc.    Yield
(Kg)       (Kg.)           (Rs.)           Mandays           (hrs)l/    (Rs)       (Tons)
Paddy-Rainfed (Maha)
Present                     110            50           100          64        16          7.5        100       1.25
Without Project             110            50           100          64        16          7.5        100       1.25
With Project                 -             _             _           _         _            _
Paddy-Irrigated (Maha)
Present                     100           100           300          80        20          10         200       2.25
Without Project             100           150           400          90        22          10         250       2.60
With Project                100           200           500         100        25          10         300       2.80
Paddy-Irrigated (Yala)
Present                     100           100           300          20        80          10         200       2.20
Without Project             100           150           400          22        90          10         250       2.50
With Project                100           200           500          25       100          10         300       2.80
Chillies-Irrigated (Yala)
Present                                     
Without Project              -
With Project                  1           200           400          70       280          7.5        600       1.20
Cowpeas-Irrigated (Yala)                                                                                                     H
Present                                                                                                                       D -   
Without Project              -             _             _                     _
With Project                 40           100           200          16        64          7.5        100       1.00
1/  Nuimber of 4-wheel tractor hours.  Equivalent animal power:  12.5 pair days per 1 hour tractor time.



ANNEX 5
77                                         Table 5
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets-/
and Project Rent: Dry Zone Representative Farms
0.75 ha Paddy Tract       1.5 ha Paddy Tract         3 ha Paddy Tract
Without    With           Without    With           Without    With
Project    Project        Project    Project        Project    Project
2/
Gross Income from Paddy Tract-
Paddy Consumption-/                     1,890       1,890          1,890       1,890         1,890       1,890
Paddy Sales                             1,530       4,500          4,900      10,890       11,790      23,670
Upland Crops                              -           455            -           910           -        1,820
Total                              3,420       6,845          6,840     13,690        13,680      27,380
Operational Costs
Total Labor Costs                         960       1,630          1,920       3,260         3,840      6,520
Other InpOs                    5/       1,250       2,240          2,510       4,475         5,020      8,950
Financial-  and Water Charges-            105         185            210         370           420         740
Total                              2,315      4,045          4,640       8,105         9,280      16,210
Net Value of Production                 1,105       2,800          2,200       5,585         4,400     11,170
Return to Family Labor6/                  960       1,630            940       1,630           960      1,630
Net Income from Paddy Tract             2,065       4,430          3,140       7,215         5,360     12,800
Other Farm Income-/                     2,030       2,030          2,030       2,030         2,030       2,030
Off-Farm Income 2!                      4.085       4,085          4,065       4.065         4,065      4,065
Net Family Income                       8,180      10,545          9,235      13,310        11,455      18,895
Per Capita Income                       1,410       1,820          1,600       2,295         1,975       3,260
Project Rent 8/                           -         1,360            -         2,815           -         5,735
1/  On basis of average 1980-1990 financial prices expressed in 1980 currency values.  See Annex 5, Table 2.
2/ Based on yield and intensity assumptions given in Annex 5, Table 1 and Table 4.
3/ Based on family of 5.8 consuming 100 kg per capita p.a.
4/ 9.0% p.a. on non-labor farm inputs repayment over eight months.
5/ Equivalent to half a bushel of paddy per cropped acre.
6/ Assuming family labor accounts for 100%, 50% and 25% of total for farms of 0.75 ha, 1.5 ha and 3 ha
respectively.
7/  Based on relative shares established by UP survey applied to income from 1.5 ha farm (See footnote
to page 41). Although variations will occur with size of paddy tract holding, this is unlikely to
occur systematically and therefore other farm income and off-farm income held constant.
8/  After deducting cost of family labor, water charges and a management and risk fee taken to be 15%
of the net increase in family income.



-78-                                        ANNEX I
Table 6
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets-/
and Project Rent: Intermediate Zone Representative Farms
0.50 ha Paddy Tract      0.75 ha Paddy Tract       2.0 ha Paddy Tract
Without    With          Without    With           Without    With
Project    Project       Project    Project        Project    Project
2/
Gross Income from Paddy Tract-/
3/
Paddy Consumption-                      1,890       1,890         1,890       1,890         1,890       1,890
Paddy Sales                             1,920       4,065         3,825       7,045        13,350      21,930
Upland Crops                              -            645          -           965           -         2,570
Total                              3,810       6,600         5,715       9,900        15,240      26,390
Operational Costs
Total Labor Costs                          940      1,500         1,410       2,250         3,760       6,000
Other Inputs                            1,300       2,120         1,955       3,180         5,210       8,470
Financial4/ and Water Charges-             115        190           170         290           460         770
Total                              2,355       3,810         3,535       5,720         9,430      15,240
Net Value of Production                 1,455       2,740         2,180       4,180         5,810      11,150
Return to Family Labor -/                  940      1,500         1,060       1,690           940       1,500
Net Income from Paddy Tract             2,395       4,290         3,240       5,870         6,750      12,650
Other Farm Income -                     2,095       2,095         2,095       2,095         2,095       2,095
Off-Farm Income 7/                      4,195       4,195         4,195       4                         4,195
Net Family Income                       8,685      10,580         9,530      12,160        13,040      18,940
Per Capita Income                       1,495       1,825         1,645       2,095         2,250       3,265
Project Rent                               -        1,030           -         1,635           -         4,535
1/  On basis of average 1980-1990 financial prices expressed in 1980 currency values.  See Annex 5, Table 2.
2/  Based on yield and intensity assumptions given in Annex 5, Table 1 and Table 4.
3/  Based on family of 5.8 consuming 100 kg per capita p.a.
4/ 9.0% p.a. on non-labor farm inputs repayment over eight months.
_/ Equivalent to half a bushel of paddy per cropped acre.
6/ Assuming family labor accounts for 100%, 75% and 25% of total for farms of 0.5 ha, 0.75 ha and 2 ha
respectively.
7/  Based on relative shares established by UP survey applied to income from 0.75 ha farm (See footnote
to page 41). Although variations will occur with size of paddy tract holding, this is unlikely to
occur systematically and therefore other farm income and off-farm income held constant.
8/  After deducting cost of family labor, water charges and a management and risk fee taken to be 15% of
the net increase in family income.



SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
_________________________________________
Econacmc Cash Flow
(Million Rs)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
YEAR         1980    1981      1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991              1992    1993   1994-2004
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
GROSS BENEFITS WITH PJT l/
________________________
RAINFED PADDY                     -        -      0.8      2.4     4.5      6.9       8.2     4.0       1.5     0.3         -        -        -        -        -
MAHA PADDY                        -        -    11.6    43.5    99.0   182.6   277.2   309.2   330.2   342.0   349.0   349.7   350.0   350.1   350.1
YALA PADDY                        -        -      2.3      8.8    20.8    39.5    61.8    72.9    80.4    84.6    86.8    87.2    87.3    87.3    87.3
UPLAND CROPS                      -        -      0.4      1.8      4.5      8.9    14.5    18.4    20.7    21.7    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0
SUBTOTAL                       -        -    15.1    56.6   128.9   237.9   361.7   404.5   432.8   448.6   457.8   458.9   459.3   459.4   459.4
GROSS BENEFITS W/O PJT 2'
------------------------
RAINFED PADDY                     -        -      1.2      4.4      9.4    16.6    24.1    24.2    24.4    24.5    24.8    24.8    24.8    24.8    24.8
MAHA PADDY                        -        -      9.0    32.5    71.1   127.7   187.3   191.0   194.9   198.7   200.9   200.9   200.9   200.9   200.9
YALA PADDY                        -        -      1.3      4.7    10.3    18.4    27.0    27.5    28.0    28.5    28.8    28.8    28.8    28.8    28.8
UPLAND CROPS                      -            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -            -        -
SUBTOTAL                       -        -    11.6    41.6    90.8   162.7   238.4   242.8   247.3   251.8   254.5   254.5   254.5   254.5   254.5
INVESTMENT COSTS 3/
CIVIL WORKS                     0.7    18.4    43.0    74.6   107.6   108.6             -        -        -
EQUIPM#ENT                        -    28.0    16.0        1.7      0.2        -        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _
STAFF                             -      0.3      1.4      1.6      1.8      2.1        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
TRAINING,STUDIES,TA             0.2      2.8      4.2      2.5      2.0      1.5        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
MISCELLANEOUS                     -      0.2      2.1      2.8      3.5      4.4        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
SUBTOTAL                     0.9    49.7    66.6    83.1   115.2   116.6            -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -
O & M  4/                         -        -      0.2      0.6      1.5      3.0      4.8      5.8      6.9      6.9      6.9      6.9      6.9      6.9      6.9
CROP PRODUCTION COSTS 5/
WITH PROJECT                      -        -      6.6    24.9    56.5   104.6   159.4   179.5   192.7   199.9   202.3   202.8   203.0   203.1   203.1
WITHOUT PROJECT                   -        -      5.6    20.1    43.5    77.9   113.8   115.8   117.7   119.7   119.8   119.8   119.8   119.8   119.8
INCREM4ENTAL SUBTOTAL          -        -      1.0     4.8    13.0    26.8    45.6    63.7    74.9    80.2    82.5    83.0    83.2    83.2    83.2
TOTAL NET BENEFITS             -0.9   -49.7   -64.3   -73.5   -91.6   -71.2    72.9    92.1   103.7   109.8   114.0   114.6   114.8   114.9   114.9
Note!  See footnotes on page 2.                                                                                                                                              m
a > t.



ANNEX 5
- 80 -                          Table 7
Page 2
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Cash Flow - Footnotes
1.  With project benefits based on schemes rehabilitated by the DI on the
schedule given in Annex 3, Table 2, and the yield and cropping inten-
sity assumptions presented in Annex 9, Table 1. The increase in
cropped area is assumed to be attained in the ratio 36% in the first
year, 64% in the second, 84% in the third, 96% in the fourth and 100%
in the fifth, with a corresponding build-up schedule for yields applied
to the increase in the cropped area.
2.  Without project benefits assumed to rise at a constant rate over 1980-
90, based on present and future without yields.
3.  Investment costs taken to comprise costs included in the project's
financial cost estimates, including incremental recurrent costs, ad-
justed by the appropriate conversion factors to reflect economic
prices.
4.  Operation and maintenance costs taken at Rs 125/ha in the first two
years, and Rs 250/ha thereafter, adjusted by the appropriate conver-
sion factor. The lower figure for the first two years reflects the
inclusion of Rs 125/ha (50 Rs/acre) in the investment costs to cover
the DI's maintenance of rehabilitated headworks (para 3.18), and
inclusion of initial DAS O&M costs in investment costs. Subsequent
O&M costs include incremental maintenance costs incurred by farmers
at the rate of one cube of earthwork per acre per year, and on-going
DAS operating costs.
5. Crop production costs with and without project reflect build-up rates
given under footnotes 1/ and 2/ above.



ANNEX 5
-81                               Table 8
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Relative Importance of Project
Cost and Benefit Streams with Switching Values
% of Total PW                            2/
of Benefit  or          Switching Value -
Cost Stream AJ       10%        12%       14%
PROJECT GROSS BENEFITS
Paddy:  Rainfed Maha                  0.8              *          *          *
Irrigated Maha               76.3           -14.9      -12.1      - 9.2
Irrigated Yala              18.3            -61.6      -50.5      -38.5
Upland:  Irrigated Yala                4.6              *          *         *
Total Gross Benefits                100.0            -11.3      - 9.3     - 7.0
Rs M                  (1875)
PROJECT COSTS
A. Investment Costs                  15.6            +92.9      +65.5      +43.5
B. Recurrent Costs
O&M                               1.6           +780.4    +639.1    +487.9
Agric. Production Costs          48.7           + 25.7    + 20.9      +15.9
C. Net Agricultural
Benefits Foregone              34.1           + 36.9    + 29.9      +22.6
Total Costs                         100.0             12.8       10.2        7.6
Rs M                         (1701)
*   Gives a negative absolute value.
1/ Streams discounted at 12% p.a.
2/ Switching value is the percentage change in the specified stream that
reduces the NPW of the project to zero at the specified discount rate.



- 82--                        ANNEX 5
Table 9
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
Sensitivity Analysis:  ERR Under Differing
Assumptions Concerning Difference Between With and Without Project Cases-_
-50%   -25%   Base2/    +25%    +50%
Case
---------% of Command Area----------
Average Intensity: WP                 99.4  107.8  116.25    124.8   132.8
Average Intensity: WO                 82.5   82.5   82.5       82.5    82.5
Difference between WP and WO          16.9   25.3   33.75      42.2    50.3
__  _ _-------ERR %------------.---
No. Difference in Yields: WP and WO  5.3   11.4   16.4         20.7    24.6
(Maha Paddy Yield = 2.6 tons/ha
Yala Paddy Yield = 2.5 tons/ha)
Yields as in Base Case                 8.6   14.7   19.8       24.2    28.3
(Maha Yields 2.8 tons/ha WP,
2.6 tons/ha WO; yala yields
2.8 tons/ha WP, 2.6 tons/ha WO)
Yield Difference 100% greater         11.8   18.0   23.1       27,7    31,9
than in Base Case
(Maha Yields 3.0 tons/ha WP,
2.6 tons/ha WO; yala yields
3.1 tons/ha WP, 2.5 tons/ha WO)
-/ERR (Economic Rate of Return) for the Project as a whole.
-/Average overall intensities for project as given in Annex 9, Table 1
WP - With Project
WO = Without Project



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Chart I
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rs M  _ |
A.  Locus of Present Values of Total ProJect
I-l50'  _   \ -      \                    Costs and Benefits
(f 6 0 1
1400
CE 200
Li ~ U 
Li~~~~~~~~~~~L
G   fui u  W  g   1I  I  I i i  
L E  E N
--7*2.33I  - DP i RUNIY C3ST OF   RPrTRTh
GRPSS SiENEF  TS
= GRJS r ',5TS
13   JB.  Locus of Total Project Cost and Benefit
CD                                       Switching Values
-     H -
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4, ,
C- )
C-i
.3    1.  2 .3    3.0    4.3    5.3    5.0    7.0    8.0    S 3
~EF~QEIN7?1SIi 4HO~TF r-C IL   N    EIF I Tb
Benefit Switching Point is -9.3%
Cost Switching Point is    10.2%



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A.   Reports and Papers Relating to the Project
A.1  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program:  "Report of the Sri Lanka Village
Tanks Rehabilitation Project - Preparation Mission", Report No.
33/80 SRL 19. Rome, July 1980.
A.2  J.M. Gunadasa, P. Wickramasekara, and H.M. Gamini Herath:  "Socio-
Economic Survey of Minor Irrigation in the Dry Zone of Sri Lanka",
University of Peradeniya, October 1980.
A.3  Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research, and Ministry of
Lands and Land Development: "Cultivation Timetable", June 1980.
A.4  Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research:  "Cultivation
Rules Formed Under Section 42(i) of the Agrarian Services Act.
No. 58 of 1979."
A.5  Government of Sri Lanka:  Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979.
A.6  Department of Irrigation:
(i) Technical Note 2. Design of Embankment for Village Tanks
and Medium Reservoirs. December 1980.
(ii) Technical Note 3. Specifications for Surveys. January 1981.
(iii) Technical Note 4. Format of Engineers' Estimate. January 1981.
A.7  Irrigation Department:  Data for Costing.  January 1980 and Supplement
No. 1.  November 1980.
B.   Selected Working Papers, Terms of Reference, and Project Data
B.1  Irrigation and Water Management:  Working Paper prepared for VIR project.
B.2  Guidelines for Investigation, Planning, Designing and Estimating Village
Irrigation Rehabilitation Works.
B.3  Guidelines for Maintenance of Village Tanks and Anicuts.
B.4  Guidelines for the Implementation and Operation of Water Management
on Village Irrigation Schemes.



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
B.5 Physical Resource Evaluation Study: Terms of Reference
B.6 Socio-Economic Evaluation Study: Terms of Reference
B.7 Water Management Adviser: Terms of Reference
B.8 Preliminary District Lists and Sample Designs and Estimates: Projects
for Implementation under the VIR Project.
B.9 Detailed Cost Tables for VIR Project.



I



SRI LANKA
_________________________________                                                          ~~~~~~~~~AGRO   - ECOLOGICAL   REGIONS                                                                                                                                                        RBRD 14076R
00                               A'                                            LJ73~~~~~~~~IK5TN  HNA              _____D15TINGUISHING  CHARACTER15TICS -                                                                                                                        DECEMBER0 198
POESTAN.  t....                         -                    MON 3337~~r   ~ L H0STOE,7AM5 S    745, EXPEC ANC>
Ago-  30  RO,.oo43loo                <   ~~~~ >-.                  AGRO - ECOLOGICAAL                  Or 70703                VALCEo                       31, E31 RY
OF7 DR70NE55                          OOOR SO L GROUPS                        TERRAIN
33 0~~~~doo,o,                                - ~~~~~ 0          REGION A 51MB833            RAINFALL 0R30AB4 T7            ANN.-AI                 FOR PAPT (WAR MONS
6                                                                                                 0.3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~kFOR RESPECT VI FEGiGNS_   _4AINI`A 3 (
3                                                                              I 11 D I~~~~~3 
Er41.--..                                                                                                            o.A3  3,3.EgF3,3o 333
9,                                                                              '-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRI LANKA                                         .....~       -       -     --                                                                    
7                                           ~~~~~~~07
433 4    10       4 0    40     44WL                                                                           '0
3~~~~~~~~~~~3  7,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~W-                                                                                                                         753
77-                                                                                                                                                                     3   33333333E33333333
43       *                         ~         ~     ~    ~~~~~WL34LX.."                         coO               .. 3                       0 .3          330n    33033333
.3                             0                                                                      -         ,l 1
O                          F
UT                     o ,y                    7  53 04 . 3                                .3   003          034330033333-33 .33, ,O.
U2ii217mz?J                                                705              0          3 35            3    3 43        003303333                                 3033333333
12              i
IM~~~        4L~~~~..3J    ~~~4                                                             A,30303  300  300303,3333033030.3
3330      2                                                       435              >      0     3     ~     3     73   3        3.3030.33333303.30
DL,                                            30~~~~~~~55    3 3 0 33 4 3 00                               O333EO.
A/D IA N                                                                                       t      DL 2                                                       1 35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D1  351 0.   3 33    3  403033         3400333033,3734033~33.                   303
03               3    7         0       0    /                                                                               3333E,.033330333.
0     C E A   Al                                                                                        DL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~334 4  2: .   3-.o   I  ~         53                30              3   3   0  3  4           3 3 43 ..0 0 0 3 3 3 0 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3
6               5 
81-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~iILIi                                                                                                                                    33333 o23304303o043330






IBRD 14077R1
I. ao  B1o2'                                                                              DECEMBER 1980
SRI LANKA
f ~SOILS
| Reddith B.-wn Eo. -and The,r Drainage Ass-ciares
10-                                                                                                           2             Rddisk B-ora, Ea,th, and annote B*dwn , oand       Im o
3             RWdd,sb Bmoom Ear,h,, Na,colic Brcwn Sails and The-r Droinog As-oniate,
4             Rod- 7.lna Podwkin Soils
5             Red-Ye        ala P od-IcSal, ithP-ninnt Al -oriannndTherDroinogeAssTci-tA s
6             Rlod-Yela RPodwo, Sods aidfLterie nod Ther Drinage Assoracses
I7            R o Red - Y.elo. Podwolic Sod.4 ith MaIed SabaoJl and Thea Draiwae Ass-oiaas
8             Efd- Yelow L.t,.ols
9 ;  Q  f    C1lo,i Red- Yellow otarsals
t lt il 10 Re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ddisirBrown Latosalic Soils od Itnrnoure Brawn Looms
12             Blank Trop,oal Cla.y Sai 0rslmsol
/i 4 < 13      AIkaLiandSolinemSa 5 (S.olnn-ed4SnlntnondSolohaks)
1d             Aatd S..., Sol(Bagand Hlalf-Sog Sa,Is
91@             3       f                              >                       IS  |    |    Sandy Rgasolsoan R-nt SEnch and D-ne S.,nd9
16         linRegos-
uiu7            AN-ril Sail
MIL LES '    '        '
KILOMETERS 6    i               o 4      o~
il]  t<   -               gX          X             X                                  KlLOMETERS o    lb~~~~~~12   1    20   3'0  40   S0   60
-70                                                                                                                                                                    Th,a mp~ Inc  bean ynpaepd by dl,
WarM Bankas staff e-o.olnaly lar
the aneoie,tco afth- aad-r of
thse regany to  hich it isn att.hcd.
The d,no,omatiarls ued and t.
ba-ddres shon0 thk ap n
do at imply, 0,0 the pontao the
Wold Bank and ita affllites, a, y
_______                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jadgmanct 00 the legal sygI.a of
aoy tenSorY or any aodx.oeeter
or acceptaane of anoh boaaduiea.
PAKISTAN            M    \.       CHINA
JN/A  $+                       .I IND I A
OCEFA IV                                                                                      \Xor  o/
Arob/to,                        go1waeola
.9sa idoo Deaoorrroeartofdr'arasovrrs          Se             LAN
B,O                     B?                                                                            5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI i.ANKtAW






DECEMBEf 19BO~
offn                                                          ~~~~~~SRI LANKA
DURATION OF WET AND DRY PERIODS
HUMID MONTHS
4    52    6    7      a8    9    lo   ii     2
8    7    6    5    4    3    2              0
ARID MAONTMS
2          20          42          60KILOMETERS
10            2 ~    3 ~    490
<-4PuttaIcm                                                                                                                                OF
INOIAN
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~ ~ ~ ~    ~                         
7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  
ombo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anott
... .............. - I ...... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     Wdda,,Mf.DhkS.Lwr
..........................~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~4S.ta 5.MsSsttaS
...................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~f5C5SSS o                        orS*s
,~~~~~~,,  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.  80                                                                                                                         82~~~... . . .. . .. . ..  .






IBRD 15450
P0 8l*                       ~.CDECEMBER a198r
SRI LANKA
Konnkesantur                                                      VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
Projet orea
-National roads
G  t   <   < a X                                                   ~~~~~~~~-E Ral*woys
District boundaries
Rivers
-    gAro-climatic zones
Elevation (in feet):
0
A   4      ;      Ig - 1, X~~~~~MuIIahivu                              100.
500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
/   <   0& MOnFulum .  )  4                            >   ~~~~~3000
5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
WorIdtnnk.f./en   mannaO
thttnflir.n,tittW   tiltS  6e of
(   <  (:: .   .      t   ->                             0,     iO      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  3,0 4 p
tIe, wore  wfins;e ,, tl                               inoom              lrinoaeeOn
/ he d   . n   nr,n,tit   .eset n                                                                                                         0      8    e   g
4000* In   __y on. the par of e
~~redenbnt ctt%C M5toiOtSWt 0!~Medcwach
00 .t  e.7t OFSot   o4ttt
PAKISTANJX        '->     CHINA [            lat              4          _x                                        ,f   
4roblon V   ,  rZ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~lI 6A,  Thmbstt V?    no3 tortnOt                                                                    ntel2 ntorvi de.tic dioro istoensett
Sso    0   1  8engo                  /                                / aq d  / S rP       O  c e  a  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n >   dotnditict.'joaoSt
<PSIlANKA
n J > a n  O c e a r   Es                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~PO lSl



