Document of                        RlE  Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3072-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   Rs 18.0
Rs 1             =   US$0.056
Rs 1 million    =   US$55,556
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre                       =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 long ton                   =   1.016 metric tons
1 bushel of paddy            =   20.87 kg
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USFD
DA    -  Department of Agriculture
DAS   -  Department of Agrarian Services
DI    -  Department of Irrigation
H     -  Million
MLLD  -  Ministry of Lands and Land Development
PSC   -  Project Steering Committee
GLOSSARY
chena -  slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
maha  -  northeast monsoon, October-February
tank  -  reservoir for local rainwater storage
yala  -  southwest monsoon, April-September
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:                   Special Drawing Rights 24.5 M (US$30.0 M
equivalent at the time of negotiations).
Terms:                    Standard.
Project Description:      The project aims to increase agricultural production
and farmer income in existing but presently under-
utilized village irrigation schemes which have deter-
iorated through inadequate maintenance and repair.
The project consists of: (i) rehabilitation of about
12,000 village tanks and anicuts; (ii) strengthening
of major government institutions involved in village
irrigation; (iii) initiating a systematic water
management program; and (iv) establishing evaluation
program designed to assist project implementation and
preparation of further village irrigation schemes.
The project does not involve any unusual risk.
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million Equivalent
Component                       Local  Foreign  Total
A.  Civil Works                 16.9     4.5    21.4
B.  Equipment and Vehicles        .2     2.3      2.5
C. Incremental Recurrent
Costs                       1.1       .2      1.3
C. Training, Evaluation
and Technical Assistance    .6        .2       .8
Base Cost                18.8      7.2    26.0
E.  Price Contingency           15.4     2.3    17.7
TOTAL COST                      34.2     9.5    43.7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                            US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
IDA                              20.5      9.5    30.0
Government                       13.6       -     13.6
Total                       34.1      9.5    43.6
Estimated
Disbursement:                                     US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY         1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual          3.0    3.5    5.0    7.0    8.0    3.5
Cumulative      3.0    6.5   11.5   18.5   26.5   30.0
Economic Rate of Return: 20%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3363-CE, dated April 30, 1981
Map:                       No. IBRD 15450.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA FOR A
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
Special Drawing Rights 24.5 M (US$30.0 M equivalent) on standard terms to
help finance a Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The most recent economic report, "Sri Lanka:  Policies and Prospects
for Economic Adjustment" (Report No. 3466-CE, May 15, 1981) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 21, 1981. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy is
experiencing sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977, and the development push associated with it.
Until 1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need and poten-
tial. Although GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the
average for low income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77
period to 2.9% per annum, just below the average for low income countries.
Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding
even these modest gains; as a consequence, per capita gross national income
rose by a mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in
economic growth in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of
factors, including inadequate investment, poor management of the economy,
and a policy environment unconducive to growth and investment, which were
compounded by bad weather and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and
petroleum.
4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still the
mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate incen-
tives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate, introduced
in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncertainties
surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger estates.
After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and cropping
intensities declined in the 1970s due to poor institutional support. Invest-
ment in manufacturing was low, and the inefficiency of most public and private
sector firms nurtured in a highly protected environment resulted in industrial
growth of less than 2% per annum. The only bright spots were subsidiary food
crops and industrial exports which benefited from good incentives.
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a credit to the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a Construction Industry
Project (Report No. P-2996-CE, dated March 17, 1981), which was approved
on April 7, 1981.



- 2 -
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and an uncontrolled increase in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public
investment. Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavor-
able policy environment. The high incremental capital output ratio in the
1970s (5.5 as against 3.5 in the 1960s), reflected the fact that the invest-
ment that did take place was both inefficient and highly capital intensive.
6.        The low growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital intensity
of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those with post-
primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war demographic
bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a massive increase
in open unemployment, estimated at over 1 million, or some 18% of the labor
force in 1977.
7.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution.
8.        Improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, the growth rate of population has dropped from 2.6% per annum
in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.0% per annum in the 1963-73 period.
Allowing for net migration, population is currently increasing at only 1.7%
per annum.
9.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by harnessing
the surpluses of the three major tree crops, which provided the Government
with easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. These surpluses began to
disappear in the late 1960s as government policies discriminated against these
crops and the terms of trade deteriorated. With growth in other productive
sectors in the economy also decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary
resources available for social programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues
and rapid inflation. As a consequence, expenditures on social services other
than the food subsidy began to decline as a proportion of total current
expenditures and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gains in health and educa-
tion. In sum, the economy was no longer generating the resources needed to
sustain a large program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the very size



- 3 -
of those programs reduced the scope for policy makers to shift resources to
development.
10.       The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The
new Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resus-
citation of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capa-
city utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and
investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in
foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation
with the IMF. Its principal aim was to dismantle controls over resource
allocation and initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more
realistic relative prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF
standby arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979
the Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
covering the 1979-81 period.
11.       The following broad policy reforms were introduced:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16,
1977 at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-
weighted average rate of the two markets. 1/ Between end 1977 and
1979 the rupee appreciated by about 5% against the dollar; however,
it began depreciating in early 1980 and reached a level of Rs 18 per
US dollar by December 1980.
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime was liberalized.
With the exception of petroleum products, public sector import mono-
polies were terminated. Prior licensing of imports was abolished
for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff structure was
revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates were raised sharply. However,
inflation eroded these rates, and in April 1980 further upward
adjustments were made.
Price Controls: These ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange
rate caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food,
fertilizer, and petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Business Turn-
over Tax rates were also substantially lowered and rationalized to
be consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate. To limit
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
the increase in cost of food subsidies, rice and sugar rations were
initially confined to the poorer half of the population, and the
subsidy on imported wheat flour was reduced through a series of
adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979 the
Government introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for
families with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace spe-
cific subsidies and food rationing, and to target benefits to
the poorest. This was accompanied by a move to full cost pricing
for rice and flour. Initially about seven million persons were
issued with food and kerosene stamps. To help offset the adverse
impact of these changes on real incomes, public sector wages were
adjusted upwards on four occasions. Public corporations were
asked to pass on cost increases, except for fertilizer, petroleum,
milk, and public transport, where price increases were initially
deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The Government sub-
sequently eliminated the subsidy on petroleum products and made
sizable adjustments in bus and train fares, electricity and
fertilizer prices. The burden of subsidies and transfers, as a
consequence, fell from around 9% of GDP in 1978 to around 5% in
1980. These changes, taken together with higher aid receipts,
have permitted a sizable increase in capital expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure was rationalized and simplified
with a view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden
of personal and company taxation was lowered. However, taxes
on slowly growing treecrop exports accounted for over 45% of
1978 revenues; as a result, the overall elasticity of revenues
to economic growth and domestic inflation has been low.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic support price for
paddy was increased by 21% in November 1977, by 25% in November
1980 and by a further 5% in February 1981. With the related
increase in flour prices, incentives for paddy and other flour
substitutes benefited. Fresh coconut prices were also increased
and the export duty on coconut products was appropriately adjusted.
While the unification of the exchange rate ended formal discrimina-
tion against tree crops, the export duty on tea was initially set
at a level which effectively siphoned off most of the benefits to
the Government. As tea prices fell and production costs rose in
1978-79, the Government responded to the reduced producer margins by
a lowering of taxes on tea. Further adjustments in both the structure
and level of tea and coconut taxation will be needed to maintain and
improve incentives. Similarly, the support price for paddy will
need to be increased further to maintain strong producer incentives,
especially since the substantial increase in fertilizer prices
announced in February could have an adverse effect on fertilizer
consumption.
12.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of GDP in 1977 to an average of 15% in 1979 and 19% in 1980, as
government departments responded to the initial improvement in the budgetary
resource position by embarking on long overdue replacement investments and new



- 5 -
projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources. At the same
time, the Government embarked on four major new programs which are to be the
lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are:
(i) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by
far the largest multi-purpose river basin development program ever undertaken
in Sri Lanka; (ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a
newly constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established
the first of several Investment Promotion Zones near Colombo's international
airport and has signed agreements with some 64 foreign investors involving a
total investment of US$117 million by end-1980; (iii) a massive housing and
urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region;
and (iv) the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of
Colombo. These four programs will together cost an estimated Rs 34 billion,
or 44% of the identified public investments over the 1981-85 period. By 1980,
their share in the investment program had already risen to 33%.
13.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program,
and provide much of the short-term growth.
14.       A difficulty with the 1981-85 investment program, as currently
proposed, is that identified investment activities, which in most cases,
have already gathered substantial momentum, will result in government capital
expenditures far in excess of available financial resources in the earlier
years (1981-1983) of the program. The experience during 1980 (paras 16-19),
when government capital expenditures rose to nearly 19% of GDP at market prices,
and contributed to the severe pressures on prices and the balance of payments,
underscores the dangers arising from this "front-loading" of the investment
program. The Government is aware of this and has taken measures to reduce
substantially its capital expenditures in 1981. It is also proposing to
examine various policy options that will enable it to reduce substantially
the gap between projected resources and projected investment expenditures
in 1982. The local cost financing (para 47) of the proposed project would
support the Government's strong efforts to mobilize resources for public
investment by reducing the burden of subsidies and transfer payments (para
11), despite declining tree crop export tax revenues.
15.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms and the
accompanying acceleration in investment has been encouraging. Economic
growth in 1978-1980 averaged an impressive 6.8% per annum. This growth was
shared by almost all sectors of the economy, with the most dynamic sectors
being construction; mining and quarrying; electricity, gas and water; trans-
port; and manufacturing. The only major exception has been the tree crop
sector. This impressive performance is due to a number of factors including
the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal of
price controls. Although there is little data available on employment,



- 6 -
Central Bank estimates suggest that unemployment dropped from 18% of the
labor force to 15% between 1977 and 1979.
16.       The rapid rise in investment has not, however, been accompanied by
a concomitant rise in the national savings effort. Gross national savings
fluctuated around 15% of GDP during the 1978-80 period, while the use of
foreign savings increased from 4.6% of GDP in 1978 to 19.5% in 1980. Although
the Government has succeeded in containing the costly consumer subsidy and
transfer programs, which has led to their decline as a percent of GDP (para
11), relatively inelastic revenues combined with steadily rising other recur-
rent expenditures and declining terms of trade have resulted in practically
no public savings over the 1978-80 period. As a result, the Government
has financed its rapidly rising capital expenditures through foreign aid,
and by increasing its level of domestic borrowings. Initially the Government
was able to meet its domestic financing requirements through non-expansionary
borrowings from captive financial institutions, which had been able to mobil-
ize increased private savings following the interest rate reform. However,
resources mobilized through these channels have not grown as rapidly as the
budgetary deficit, and the Government has been increasingly forced to undertake
expansionary borrowings from the Central Bank. Between 1978 and 1979, these
rose from 0.4% to 1.2% of GDP and in 1980 rose sharply to 10.5% of GDP.
17.       The exchange rate adjustment, other policy-induced price increases
and related wage increases, the removal of price controls, and the build-up
of external assets contributed significantly to inflationary pressures in 1978
and 1979. However, they were moderated in 1978 and 1979 by bumper paddy har-
vests, increased capacity utilization in the economy, increased availability
of imports, and the beneficial effects of competition from imports and in
domestic distribution. Thus, annual inflation, as measured by the official
Colombo consumer price index, averaged 11% in 1978 and 1979. However, with
broad money increasing by 38% in 1979 and 27% in 1980, compared to a 6% growth
in GDP, there has been a sizable "built-in" price increase. This, together
with the corrective price increases designed to reduce budgetary subsidies,
and the rapid increases in the price of petroleum, wheat and sugar imports
have led to an overall inflation rate of 26% for 1980.
18.       The rapid growth of the economy since 1977 has also been reflected
in the balance of payments. As a result of the import liberalization, the
acceleration in economic growth in the domestic economy, and the decline in
the terms of trade, imports grew at over 42% annually between 1977 and 1979;
on the other hand, exports (of which sluggishly growing treecrop exports still
account for about 60%) grew at only 15% annually. Tourism receipts and pri-
vate transfers from abroad both grew rapidly, partially offsetting the rapid
growth in the trade deficit; nevertheless, the current account deficit rose
to 4.6% of GDP in 1978 and 11.1% of GDP in 1979. In both years, however, the
current account deficits were more than offset by non-monetary capital inflows,
and Sri Lanka continued to add to its net international reserves, albeit at a
declining rate. At the end of 1979, Sri Lanka's net international reserves
stood at US$258 million; its gross international reserves at US$517 million,
equivalent to more than four months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
In 1980, however, the balance of payments deteriorated rapidly and net reserves
declined by about US$220 million. The principal cause of the deterioration has
been the sharp increase in the trade deficit. Imports grew by 10% in volume



-7 -
terms, while exports recorded almost no volume growth and the terms of trade
declined by about 15%. While all categories of imports, but particularly
capital goods imports, grew rapidly, exports rose only slightly above 1979
levels with a drought-induced decline in tree crop exports offsetting non-
traditional export growth. Sri Lanka's petroleum import bill doubled between
1979 and 1980 and was a significant factor behind the deterioration on the
trade account. Although gross petroleum imports accounted for less than
one-fourth of total imports, net petroleum imports accounted for more than
36% of non-oil exports. Other elements of the current account continued to
perform well; nevertheless, they could not offset the deterioration of the
trade account, and as a result the current account deficit more than doubled
to over US$800 million and rose to 19.5% of GDP. Net aid disbursements,
together with net direct foreign investment, will cover only about one-half
of the current account deficit. With the consequent rapid drawdown in inter-
national reserves, the public sector, especially the public corporations,
have begun to make significant use of commercial financing arrangements.
19.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the Government's dev-
elopment initiatives - aid commitments totalled US$560 million in 1979 and
$633 million in 1980. Continued high levels of aid will, however, depend
upon the Government maintaining donor confidence in its economic policies
and management.
20.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,328
million at the end of 1980, amounting to about 35% of GDP. However, it is
almost all long-term concessional debt. As a result, the debt service burden
is relatively low--the debt service ratio in 1980 excluding IMF repurchases
stood at 7.3% of exports of goods and non-factor services, declining from
16.6% in 1977. While this sustained decline is due in part to improved export
earnings, the main cause has been a decline in outstanding short and medium
term commercial borrowings. Unless the ratio of the current account deficit
to GDP improves, Sri Lanka will again have to begin undertaking significant
shorter maturity commercial borrowings to fill the gap between the current
account deficit and likely concessional aid flows. In that case, the debt
service ratio could deteriorate quickly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
21.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has approved eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancellations)
and 27 credits totalling US$409.0 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 33 projects. About 43% of Bank Group assistance
has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development),
17% for power, 15% for transport, and the remainder for development finance
company operations, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw mate-
rials for industry), water supply, telecommunications, and small and medium
industries. Eight loans and eight credits have been fully disbursed so far.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of March 31,
1981, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



22.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the Devel-
opment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving line of
credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending
to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were approved in FY78.
IFC also approved an investment of US$3.68 million in a synthetic textile mill,
and about US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in FY79. During
FY80, IFC approved an increase in equity investment of about US$51,000 equiv-
alent in DFCC and an investment of about US$260,000 in an equipment leasing
company. In FY81, an investment of about US$0.7 million in equity and about
$17 million in loans for a new hotel project in Colombo was approved.
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes
and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to sup-
port basic infrastructure are also included. The IDA lending program includes
a Mahaweli Ganga Development III project, a second tea rehabilitation project,
a second small and medium industries project, a second tea diversification
project and a seventh power project.
24.       In 1979, the Bank Group accounted for 10.2% (IBRD, 3.0%; IDA, 7.2%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 8.5% (over 90% IBRD)
of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total external
debt will increase to 15% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining to 2%).
The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline to about
5% by 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND IRRIGATION SECTORS
Overview
25.       Agriculture remains of central importance to the economic develop-
ment of Sri Lanka. In 1979, it contributed about 30% of total GDP, over 50%
of total employment, 75% of export earnings, and 40% of government revenues.
In addition, much of the activity in the manufacturing, transport, and the
services sectors relates to either the supply of agricultural inputs or the
processing of agricultural output.
26.       Agricultural development has been concentrated to date in the wet
zone which lies in the southwest portion of the island.  This zone, accounting
for only one-third of Sri Lanka's surface area, contains about two-thirds of
the population, virtually all its tea and rubber, 50% of its paddyland, and
a substantial proportion of the area under other crops.  Agricultural growth
depends primarily on increasing productivity of already developed land. In
contrast, the dry zone to the north and southeast is sparsely populated and
underdeveloped despite continuing migration and colonization. Permanent
agriculture there accounts for less than 30% of the 6.0 M acres (2.4 M ha)
which are considered potentially arable, with an additional 40% under
subsistence-type slash and burn (chena) agriculture. Cultivation in the
southwest monsoon season (yala) is confined to irrigated areas, but even in
these, water and other constraints limit average land use intensities to about
110-120%. In summary, considerable potential exists in Sri Lanka for both



increasing cropping intensities on already developed land and expanding
cultivated area. A total of about 1.5 M acres (0.6 M ha) could be brought
under irrigation, compared to less than 0.75 M acres (0.3 M ha) at present.
The balance of arable land would probably remain under rainfed conditions;
however, even on these lands there is considerable scope for stabilizing chena
and raising productivity. While paddy will continue to be the dominant crop
in irrigated areas, the dry zone in general holds most promise for agricultural
diversification.
Irrigation in the Dry Zone
27.       The dry zone accounts for some 60% of total paddy production, and
contributes significantly to the production of other field crops. In the dry
zone, irrigation is normally essential for paddy cultivation. Most existing
schemes are based on storage tanks designed to supplement rainfall in the maha
(northeast monsoon) season, with residual supplies being used for limited yala
cropping. There are a total of about 180 major schemes which have a storage
capacity of 2,000 acre ft or more, irrigating nearly 0.4 M acres (0.16 M ha),
together with a large number of smaller village schemes. Although often based
on ancient systems, many of the larger schemes have been developed through
colonization programs designed to relieve population pressure in the wet zone.
In contrast, most of the smaller tanks are associated with traditional villages
which often have a long history of continuous settlement. In addition to the
development of tank irrigation, past colonization programs have included a
number of more complex river basin developments of which the most important
were the Gal Oya and Uda Walawe projects. These have now culminated in the
ambitious Mahaweli Ganga Development Program which envisages the ultimate
development of 0.9 M acres of new land (effectively doubling the total
irrigated area) and 970 MW of hydroelectric generating capacity. The present
Government has greatly accelerated the Mahaweli program which now accounts
for about 36% of the total 1981-85 public sector investment budget.
28.       While the major emphasis in the irrigation sector is on the expan-
sion of the irrigated area, there is a growing realization that the utiliza-
tion of existing systems, and even of newly developed systems, remains well
below their potential due to inadequate maintenance and the wasteful use of
water. Despite its preoccupation with the Mahaweli Program, the Government
has begun to give greater attention to smaller scale projects designed to make
more efficient use of existing systems. The resources available for this
purpose are limited but a number of projects have been developed, including
the proposed project. Investments in such smaller schemes are generally less
capital-intensive, the gestation periods are considerably less than those for
major schemes, and benefits tend to be more equitably distributed because
investments are widely scattered and touch directly on the livelihoods of
small farmers in the traditional (and still largely subsistence) agricultural
sector.
Village Irrigation Programs
29.       Minor irrigation schemes are defined as having a command area of
200 acres (80 ha) or less. Most were constructed initially by the proprietors
themselves with Government assistance being confined at most to the provision
of headworks and sluices. It is estimated that there may be as many as 25,000



- 10 -
such schemes throughout the country, with an irrigable area commanded in excess
of 0.4 M acres (0.16 M ha). Of these about 15,000 are village tank schemes
located in the dry and, to a lesser extent, the intermediate zones. In con-
trast, 10,000 or so anicut (diversion) schemes lie very largely in the wet zone.
Many schemes have seriously deteriorated or been abandoned and it is estimated
that only about 50% are in working condition at varying degrees of efficiency.
Current water management practices lead to excessive water losses and to the
under-utilization of the available land and water resources. Operation and
management of minor irrigation schemes have traditionally been the responsi-
bility of the farmers themselves, with Government support confined to arrang-
ing pre-cultivation meetings, resolving water disputes and undertaking major
repairs. Frequent administrative changes and other factors, however, have
tended to undermine the traditional system while population pressure has led
to an increasing orientation to rainfed farming, including chena. With the
Agrarian Services Act of 1979, the Government has sought to reestablish the
traditional role of the irrigation headman, supported now by officials of the
Department of Agrarian Services (DAS). However, the role of DAS in support of
minor irrigation has been limited so far. Under the proposed project, a more
systematic water management program is to be introduced which will make more
effective use of the water resources available, and will help stabilized agri-
culture as a whole in the dry zone, for instance through discouraging chena.
30.       Over the years, the Government has implemented a number of village
irrigation rehabilitation programs. These have included a food-for-work
program supported by the World Food Program (some 6,000 village tanks were
repaired between 1974-79), and projects financed under the Decentralized
Budget. When the present Government came to power, a more systematic approach
to the improvement of village irrigation was adopted. Three types of programs
can now be distinguished:
(a) Rural Development Projects - Implemented by the Ministry of
Plan Implementation. A major component of these is the rehabili-
tation of minor and major irrigation schemes. Such projects
are being implemented for Kurunegala (IDA Credit No. 891-CE),
Puttalam and Matale (IDA Credit No. 1079-CE), Hambantota, Matara,
and Nuwera Eliya districts. Further projects are envisaged for
Badulla, Vavuniya and Mannar.
(b) Department of Irrigation (DI) Programs - The first major program
was implemented in 1980 with the rehabilitation of about 150 small
tanks in six districts. This program can be considered as the
first phase of the proposed project.
(c) Dry Zone Farming Projects - To be implemented by the Ministry
of Agricultural Development and Research (MADR). The first of
these is to be initiated in Anuradhapura, with Asian Develop-
ment Bank support. In contrast to most of the other programs,
the Dry Zone Farming Projects include the settlement of new
areas by tank-based communities and the concurrent develop-
ment of an overall farming system.
31.       Although these various programs are implemented by different Govern-
ment agencies, the civil works component in each is the responsibility of the



- 11 -
Department of Irrigation. Measures have been taken to ensure that implementa-
tion of the proposed project would complement other programs. The dry zone
farming project areas (notably Anuradhapura) have been excluded from the
proposed project while the districts covered by rural development projects
will only be included once their minor irrigation components have largely been
completed. Kurunegala in particular accounts for a major proportion of the
national total area under minor tanks, and even after completion of the Rural
Development Project (para 30a), there will be a substantial number of schemes
still to be rehabilitated. The proposed project will be implemented in
accordance with criteria based on experience with the irrigation components
of IDA-assisted rural development projects. The Kurunegala Rural Development
Project (Cr 891-CE), the only one of these projects implemented for a suffi-
ciently long time to evaluate its performance, has proceeded quite well.
Cost overruns due to inflation may however, dictate a reduction of targets as
originally established.
Bank Group Support to Agriculture
32.       During the last several years, Bank Group lending to Sri Lanka has
heavily emphasized agriculture and rural development. Since 1968, a total of
12 projects with loans and credits of US$168.5 M have been financed in this
sector. Two of these projects--Lift Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M) and
Drainage and Reclamation (Cr. 168-CE, US$2.5 M)-related to irrigation have
been completed, and project performance audit reports have been prepared. The
audit reports found that both projects suffered from design inadequacies, in
particular over-optimism concerning the response of beneficiaries to opportun-
ities offered under the projects, and also from inadequate attention to research
and extension services and, in the case of the Drainage and Reclamation Project,
to unusual soil conditions. As a consequence, the net project benefits have
been lower than envisaged at project appraisal although the estimated revised
rates of return remain satisfactory. Over the course of the last several
years, project preparation activities have been directed towards obtaining a
fuller understanding of the systems and institutions expected to have signif-
icant impact on expected project results, such as inputs supply, marketing,
extension, operation and maintenance, cultural practices, and pricing. The
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 931-CE, US$15.5 M)
would strengthen extension and research in the proposed project area. The
Mahaweli Ganga Development I has been recently completed. The other ongoing
projects are progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was prepared during late-1979/early-1980 by
the Government with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The
preparation report was submitted in July 1980, and the project was appraised
in August/September 1980. A follow-up mission took place in January 1981.
Negotiations were conducted in Washington, D.C. in April 1981. The Borrower's
delegation was led by Mr. Chandrananda de Silva, Additional Secretary, Ministry
of Lands and Land Development. A staff appraisal report (No. 3363-CE dated
April 30, 1981) is being distributed separately. A timetable of key events
relating to the project and special conditions of the project are given in
Annex III.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
34.       The project is concerned with the scattered irrigable areas commanded
by small tanks and anicuts (diversion schemes) in fourteen of Sri Lanka's
twenty four districts. The project area excludes two major dry zone districts
(Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa) but, apart from these, covers essentially the
whole of the dry and intermediate zones, together with minor parts of the
neighboring wet zone. The project aims to increase agricultural production
and farmer incomes in existing--but underutilized--village schemes which
have deteriorated through inadequate maintenance and repair. The principal
season (maha) crop grown in minor schemes is rice, the production of which
will be significantly increased and stabilized. To a lesser extent, the
project would also lead to increased second season (yala) rice cultivation
and to some crop diversification.
Project Description
35.       The major part of project expenditure will improve existing irriga-
tion facilities to ensure farmers a more dependable irrigation water supply.
These investments will be complemented by institutional and infrastructural
support designed to assist farmers in operating and maintaining minor irriga-
tion facilities more productively, and to enable them to make more efficient
use of the total available water resources.
36.       The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) Civil Works
(i) Rehabilitation of about 1,200 village irrigation schemes
by the Department of Irrigation (DI), including repairs
to and remodelling of tank bunds, anicuts, sluices, spill-
ways, water conveyance and distribution systems, and the
provision of appropriate field structures. labor-intensive
methods and farmer labor will be used where feasible;
(ii) Modernization of about 500 working irrigation schemes near
rehabilitated tanks by the DAS in order to facilitate the
introduction of water management programs. Modernization
will include minor repairs to headworks, the provision of
sluices, main supply channels, secondary delivery channels
and structures.
(b) Operation, Maintenance and Water Management
(i) Strengthening the DAS to service the operation and main-
tenance of minor irrigation, and to initiate the imple-
mentation of water management programs on project schemes.
This would include additional staff in the project areas,



- 13 -
together with the provision of office, survey and con-
struction equipment, and transport vehicles; 1/
(ii) Support for on-going DAS training programs in basic tech-
nical skills at the University of Moratuwa and the Hardy
Institute (Amparai), as well as for new water management
training programs to be provided by the Department of
Agriculture at the Maha Illuppallama Research Institute.
(c) Investigations and Evaluation
(i) Monitoring of project impact on agricultural production;
(ii) Systematic data collection and evaluation programs
to improve design procedures and selection criteria.
These studies will cover the hydrology of village tanks,
soils, land use and related information;
(iii) Socio-economic evaluation studies of project impact on
agricultural production, farm income and employment.
Organization and Implementation
37.       Overall responsibility for coordination and management of the project
would rest with the Ministry of Lands and Land Development (MLLD). The National
Committee for Village Tank Rehabilitation (NCVTR) is responsible for coordin-
ation and planning of all minor irrigation works in the country and would
ensure that the proposed project is complementary to other projects involving
minor irrigation. The NCVTR is headed by the Chairman of the Mahaweli Author-
ity and includes the Secretaries of the main ministries concerned with minor
irrigation, notably Secretary, MLLD and Secretary, MADR as members.
38.       A Project Steering Committee (PSC) has been established (draft DCA,
Section 3.08) in the MLLD, with the Secretary of Lands and Land Development
as Chairman, and representatives from the Ministry of Agricultural Development
and Research, the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Department of External
Resources, the DI, the DAS, the Freedom From Hunger Campaign (FFHC) and the
University of Peradeniya. The PSC would be responsible for: (a) approving
the annual district programs comprising both the civil works to be undertaken
by the DI and DAS and their budgets, (b) reviewing and monitoring of project
progress, (c) resolving implementation bottlenecks, and (d) recommending
modifications in project design.
1/   Success of the water management program will depend to a great extent
upon the simultaneous introduction of several new agronomic techniques
(e.g., new rice varieties, earlier land preparation, greater input use,
etc.). The Department of Agriculture (DA), whose staff and extension
program are being strengthened under the IDA-supported Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Credit No. 931-CE) will provide
appropriate extension support for the proposed project.



- 14 -
39.       A District Agricultural Committee (DAC) has been established in
each district (draft DCA, Section 3.08) under the Irrigation Ordinance. The
DAC is chaired by the Government Agent and consists, in addition, of all
regional and district officers concerned, with the Development Officer of
the Kachcheri (district office) as secretary. It would be responsible for
(a) identifying the annual district program consistent with the agreed criteria,
(b) scheduling an appropriate program of investigations by DI and DAS officers,
(c) submitting this annual program of works for the approval of the Project
Steering Committee, and (d) monitoring progress and resolving implementation
problems at the district level.
40.       The MLLD will coordinate the activities of the various departments
and agencies involved through the Project Steering Committee. A coordinator
appointed in MLLD will have particular responsibility for the supervision of
the agencies involved in project evaluation (para 36c above). Funds for the
project will be included in the budget of the DI, which is the major implement-
ing agency. A Project Management Division has been established in DI, and
will be responsible for the implementation of the DI program, as well as for
maintaining overall project accounts, submitting IDA reimbursement claims and
functioning as the general secretariat for the project as a whole. A Project
Management Division in the DAS, under the proposed Deputy Commissioner for
Water Management (para 42), wili supervise the water management and other
programs to be undertaken by that department.
41.       The DI has long experience of the straightforward rehabilitation
work to be carried out under the project and, with some strengthening of
quality control, workshop and other supporting services, no serious problems
are foreseen for its assuming the additional work involved. With financial
constraints likely to curtail the initiation of other major projects, it
is judged that the DI Range Offices will have the capacity to implement the
proposed work program. Nevertheless, DI as a whole does have a shortage of
qualified engineers and although shortages of technical assistants (who will
be primarily responsible for carrying out the surveys and supervising con-
struction) are less severe, it will be important to keep the staffing position
under review. The Government will undertake an annual review of the program,
adjust the program and reallocate funds and staff as may be necessary to meet
the needs of the approved program (draft DCA, Section 3.07(b)).
42.       Responsibility for the Government's role in supporting the operation
and maintenance of minor irrigation was only recently returned to DAS under
the Agrarian Services Act of 1979, following abolition of the Territorial Civil
Engineering Organization which had been responsible for the work during most
of the 1970s. The Department is still in the process of establishing its
capability to undertake such a role, and its present technical cadre is well
below the approved strength. Moreover, the water management principles and
practices to be introduced under the project are mostly new to Sri Lanka.
Therefore, the project provides both for strengthening DAS support for minor
irrigation and for a substantial training program to ensure the effectiveness
of the new organization. Seven regional offices will be established cover-
ing the whole country, with those in the project area provided support under
the project. These offices will direct three main activities: (i) the plan-
ning and implementation of water management programs on identified schemes;



- 15 -
(ii) the operation of a new water management service to maintain and if neces-
sary modify agreed programs; and (iii) the ongoing repair and maintenance
activities of the department. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government
will appoint a Deputy Commissioner (Water Management) and a Water Management
Engineer in DAS (draft DCA, Sections 3.09(b) and 5.01). The Government will
also establish, by December 31, 1981, twelve agricultural planning teams to
plan and design water management programs (draft DCA, Section 3.09(c)). Basic
training of technical assistants at Moratuwa University and the Hardy Institute
at Amparai will be supported under the project and new training courses in
water management will be developed at the Maha Illuppallama Research Institute
of the Department of Agriculture. With this support, and with the technical
assistance to be provided (para 44), it is judged that DAS will be in a
position to implement the water management and maintenance components of the
project. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of DAS's role will be kept under
review during the course of the project implementation.
43.       Project implementation will take five years starting in 1981.  The
overall scope of the project, and the approximate number of schemes scheduled
for rehabilitation in each year, are in line with the Government's Investment
Program, 1981-85. The divisibility of the civil works program is such that
there should be no difficulty in adjusting the annual program to actual annual
budget allocations. Selection of schemes for rehabilitation will be made
according to agreed criteria covering hydrological factors (notably the minimum
storage to be provided) and socio-economic considerations (including a maximum
cost limit per hectare of command area). Preparation of plans and designs for
each scheme would be in accordance with specifications and guidelines satis-
factory to IDA (draft DCA, Section 3.06).
Technical Assistance
44.       Thirty-six man-months of technical assistance in water management
at a per man-month cost of about US$5,000 have been incorporated in the
project to strengthen the capacity of DAS to implement the water management
component and to accelerate its staff and program development. This technical
assistance would take the form of a full-time water management adviser for a
period of two years, who would coordinate the training program and help train
the instructors from the DA in the techniques to be adopted under the program.
The Government will appoint the water management adviser by October 31, 1981
(draft DCA, Section 3.02). He would assist DAS in strengthening the organi-
zational framework and preparing guidelines for the proposed water management
program, prepare design manuals for distribution systems, and also provide
assistance to the DA's physical resource evaluation study (para 46). At the
end of the two-year assignment, the status of the water management program
would be reviewed and a decision taken whether the water management adviser
should be extended full-time for a third year, or whether the remaining 12
man-months could be more advantageously utilized in more flexible, short-term
technical assistance in response to specific requirements.
Monitoring and Evaluation
45.       The Project Management Division in DI will monitor and summarize
progress reports from the districts, reflecting operational and financial
performance. It will submit monthly progress reports on the implementation



- 16 -
of the DI civil works to the Project Steering Committee. The project manage-
ment division of DAS will have comparable responsibilities for all aspects
of the water management, operation and maintenance activities implemented
through DAS. The DAS, in association with the FFHC and the Department of
Census and Statistics, will also be responsible for monitoring the agricul-
tural production impact of the rehabilitation and water management programs.
Joint quarterly reports will be submitted to IDA through the Project Manage-
ment Division in DI.
46.       Arrangements have been made with the Department of Agriculture under
the Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research to undertake a physical
resource evaluation study directed at improving the data base on the hydrology
and irrigation potential of village tanks. In addition, and in coordination
with the Department of Agriculture, the University of Peradeniya (UP) will
undertake a regular annual socio-economic survey of a sample of about 25
schemes to provide evidence on project progress in terms of its economic and
social justification and to monitor its impact on agricultural production,
farm incomes and employment. As part of preparation for the project, the UP
carried out a socio-economic survey in the project area. The Government will
by December 31, 1981 furnish to IDA a detailed program for monitoring and
evaluation studies (draft DCA, Section 3.10). These evaluation studies will
assist in both carrying out the project, in particular as a basis for improv-
ing the selection criteria (para 43) and reviewing implementation performance
(para 41), as well as contributing to the planning of further programs and
projects in support of minor irrigation in Sri Lanka.
Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated to be US$43.6 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of US$9.5 million (22%). Taxes and duties
are waived on machinery imported by the public sector and have, therefore,
been excluded. Base cost estimates are at mid-1980 prices. The civil works
component accounts for about 82% of the total base costs and includes 10% for
supervision and administration. Average cost estimates are based on analysis
of 375 preliminary estimates by the DI, and on unit rates prevailing in 1980.
Price contingencies have been calculated on the following basis: 25% in 1980
and 1981, 15% in 1982, 12% in 1983, 10% in 1984 and 8% in 1985 for local costs
and 12.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% in 1983-85 for foreign
costs. The proposed credit of US$30.0 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost and contribute US$20.5 million equivalent to local costs or
about 69% of total project costs. The remaining local costs, amounting to
US$13.6 million equivalent would be met by the Government. Despite a number
of recent measures to raise additional resources in support of its investment
program (para 14), Sri Lanka's budgetary situation remains tight. A major
reason for this is the adverse impact on revenues of the relatively slow
increase in export volumes and prices, and the pressures on expenditures
arising from the rapid increase in import prices. Even though additional
resource mobilization measures are under consideration, the tight budgetary
situation will take time to resolve. Local cost financing in support of
Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will not only provide valuable
relief to these budgetary pressures but also supplement foreign exchange
resources needed in support of the balance of payments.



- 17 -
Procurement
48.       Equipment and vehicles with an estimated cost of US$2.5 million will
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA guidelines. A preference of 15% of the cif price of imported goods would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Due to strong
individual preferences, motorcycles and bicycles supplied to DAS staff would
be purchased by the individuals concerned through normal commercial channels.
Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$20,000 each, for which inter-
national tendering is impracticable, would be procured after comparing prices
from not less than three independant suppliers in accordance with procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases including motorcycles and
bicycles will not exceed the equivalent of US$0.5 million in total.
49.       Civil works under the project will be individually small and scat-
tered throughout the project area. Construction will be seasonal and it
would be neither feasible nor economic to group schemes into large contracts
suitable for ICB. Approximately 80% of the civil works is expected to be
undertaken through local domestic contractors using predominantly labor-
intensive methods. The balance will be undertaken by force account using the
limited amount of construction machinery supplied under the project, parti-
cularly in those districts where labor shortages are encountered. The DI and
the DAS will retain full responsibility for construction standards including
those for works undertaken by contract.
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements under the Credit would be made for:  (i) 70% of
expenditures on civil works; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured,
and 80% of expenditures on locally procured equipment and vehicles; and (iii)
100% of expenditures on training, evaluation studies and technical assistance.
51.       Disbursements for civil works and training would be made against
statements of expenditures, submitted to IDA through the office of the Project
Management Division of DI. This division will also maintain project accounts
which will be audited according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Disbursements
for equipment, vehicles, studies and technical assistance would be made against
full documentation. It is anticipated that the final disbursements of the
Credit would be made by December 31, 1986, about one year after the scheduled
completion of project implementation. To facilitate the smooth implementation
of the 1981 program and to ensure the early start of the monitoring and evalua-
tion activities, the project would include up to US$1.0 million of retroactive
financing for eligible project expenditures incurred after October 1, 1980.
If signing of the credit documents is delayed, additional retroactive financing
may be made available at the Government's request.
Agricultural Impact and Farm Incomes
52.       A combined irrigable area of about 31,500 ha (78,000 acres) would
benefit under the project from a better managed, more reliable water supply.
In addition to higher yields and cropping intensities on existing irrigable
land, it is expected that about 7,000 ha of this irrigable land would repre-
sent land previously cultivated under rainfed conditions. Rice is virtually
the only crop grown at present under minor irrigation, but on the lighter



- 18 -
soils some diversification into upland crops is expected in response to the
proposed water management program. Conditions will vary substantially from
scheme to scheme, but at full development in 1991 crop production is estimated
to amount to about 90,000 tons of paddy and 2,000 tons of chillies and cowpeas,
compared to an estimated 52,500 tons of paddy without the project. Further
agricultural benefits would be obtained on schemes to be modernized by the
DAS, and the successful implementation and extension of the water management
program could lead to production increases significantly higher than those
projected above.
53.       Some 20,000-25,000 farm families will have their incomes supple-
mented as a result of the rehabilitation works and water management programs
completed under the project, and will be provided with greater assurances
against the risks of weather. The extent of the project's impact on family
incomes will vary substantially, depending on the conditions prevailing under
different schemes, and on the relative importance of the paddy holding in
relation to other sources of income. Paddy accounts for about one-third of
present family incomes of representative farms, which are expected to increase
by about 30-45% as a result of the project. With the project, per capita
incomes of such representative farms would rise from about US$90 to about
US$120, equivalent to a little more than half the national average.
54.       No water charges are levied by the Government on village irrigation
schemes, given their traditional form of ownership and management. It is not
thought practicable to institute them in the context of the project given the
variability of the project's impact; the relatively modest impact on per
capita incomes; the widely dispersed nature of the schemes involved; and the
large number of benefitting farmers. Farmers will, however, contribute free
labor for construction of the field channel system and possibly other civil
works activities, and will also meet the majority of O&M costs notably through
the provision of free labor for annual maintenance. It is estimated that the
farmers will contribute about 15% of the present value of the total incremental
costs associated with the project. After allowing for management and family
labor, it is further estimated that the farmer contribution will equal about
9-11% of project rent. These shares are thought aocreptable given the rela-
tively low per capita incomes. The actual impact of the project on farm
incomes will be closely evaluated (para 46) and the University of Peradeniya
study will also review the potential for additional cost recovery measures in
relation to subsequent village irrigation programs.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.'      The project will permit the intensification of agricultural acti-
vities on existing but currently underexploited minor irrigation schemes.
The emphasis on rehabilitation and quick-yielding investments is appropriate
in the light of Sri Lanka's evolving overall economic situation, and benefits
from the project can be expected to flow as from the first year's investments.
In contrast to major new settlement schemes, the benefits of the project will
be widely dispersed throughout the country in areas which frequently remain
untouched by other government programs. The project should therefore help to
reduce regional imbalances and reach some of the least advantaged communities
in the country.



- 19 -
56.       The overall scope and phasing of the project have been adjusted
to correspond to the allocations provided for in the most recent review of
the Government's Public Investment, 1981-85. Nevertheless, it is conceivable
that financial stringency will entail further adjustment in the future. The
divisibility of the project is such that this could be readily accommodated
through a reduction in the number of schemes rehabilitated in any one year.
Since this would reduce costs and benefits virtually pro rata, the economic
viability of the project would remain secure. The technical risks of the
project are no greater than would normally be associated with operations of
this type.
57.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated to
be 20%, on the basis of preliminary evidence obtained under the rural devel-
opment projects and an initial evaluation study undertaken by the University
of Peradeniya. If the difference in cropping intensities declines by 25%
relative to the levels projected, then the ERR would fall to 14.7%. The
project maintains an ERR above 12% for a 20% reduction in paddy price; a 20%
increase in farm costs; a 20% decrease in total command area; and a delay in
benefits by two years.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Additional conditions of effectiveness include the appointment of a Deputy
Commissioner (Water Management) and a Water Management Engineer in the DAS
(para 42). Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Moeen Qureshi
Attachments
May 22, 1981



- 20 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANrA                    REPERE QourWPS (WElENTD AVUA0ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND so. KM.)                                                   -  MDST RCCElt ESTIMATE) 
TOTAL             65. 6                               MOST RECENT        LUW INCOMZ           mIDDLt  nCGKE
AGRICULTURAL      25. 7             1960  A     1970 /b ESTIMATE l    ASIA & PACIIPC         ASIA & PAcInc
GMP PER CAPITA (USS)                  60.0       100.0    230.0               212.A              1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCGAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     107.0       13S.0f   109.0              166.0               842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL sTATISrICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      9.9        12.5      14.3
URBN POPULArION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         21.9      25.6               2O.;8               39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILLIONS)                      21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        31.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPLATION IS REACND)                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IEH.                     151.0       191. 0    218.0              193.2               376.1
PER SQ. IKH. AGRICULTURAL EAND    507. 0     518. 0    556.0              409.6              2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.1        41.9      37.6               42.0                40.4
15-64 YKS.                         54.3        54.5      38.3               55.0                56.2
65 YRS- AND ASOVE                   3.6         3.6       4.1                3. 0                3.4
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.5         2. 4      1. 7               2.2                 2.4
URBAN                              4. 8        4. 3      3. 7               3.9                 4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    36.0         30.0      26.0               37.4                28.7
CRUDE DEArH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0         7.0       6.0               14.6                 7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5         2.3       1.8                2.6                 1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS1      ..         55.3    113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED SIONEN)    .          8.0    41. 0              15.6                39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          93.0       103.0    119.0               101.4               116.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREMENTS)                   91.0       108.0      96.0               92.A               108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          44.0        47.0      43.0               49.8                60.3
or UHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        13.0       J.0               12.0                18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      7. 0        3.0       2.0               17. 9                5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0        67.0      69.0               50.8                63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
T8DUSAND)                           63.0        51.0        ..                 .                 52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAI.                              .         21.0      20.0               30.2                42.4
URWAN                              ..         46.0      45.0               66.0                62.1
RURAL                               *-        14.0      13.0               20.0                29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        64.0      59.0               17.7                52.e
URBAN                                         76.0      68.0               71.3                71. 1
RURAL                              ..         61.0      55.0                 ..                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICtAN          4500.0          ..    6274.0             6322.7              4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4153.0      2730.0   2259.0              9459.0              2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            319.0       331.0     331.0             1758.4               819.4
URBAN                                        130.0     140.0
RURAL                              .-        570.0     600.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         54.0      51.3                 ..                28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5. 4L       5. 8
URBAN                              6. 3/c      6.23
RURAL                              S.2Lc       3.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.0/c       2.5
URBAN                              2. 1Le      2. 7
RURAL                              t.0O/c      2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICIT (PERCENT
OP DW ELLINGS)
TOTAL                              7.3/        9.0
URBAN                             35.9        34-5        *-
RURAL                              2.          2.8



- 21I
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page  2
SRI LANKA                    REFERENCE ROUPS (WEIC8TED AVIAGES
-  MOST RtCENT ES    ATE 
MOST RECENT        LDW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTTIATE lb    ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
MDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:     TOTAL                95.0         99.0      86.0/d             80.9                98.6
MALE                100.0       104.0      89.0jd              94.3                99.2
PEHALE               90.0        94.0      82.Od              66.7                97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 27.0         47.0      47. 01d            26.6                 55.5
MALE                 38.0        46.0      47.0/d              34.8                60.7
PEMALE               16.0        48.0      48. 0a              18.2                49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDRY)    ..           1.0       1.0                9.9                 13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                           31.0          ..       29.0               41.1                34.6
SECONDARY                           ..          ..        ..                20.5                28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       75.0 to      77.6      78.1               40.9                85.8
CONSUIHTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8. 0        7. 0       6.8                1.8                 9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        36.0          ..       38.0               25.8               118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                 2.4                39.4
NEISPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 36.0        49.0        ..                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          ..        4.0                 ..                 4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3390.9      4186.9    4930.6
F.}IALE (PERCENT)                 22.6        23.7      24.0                29.4                36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.3         55. 1     54.0               70.5                 51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.5        14.4      15.0                11.6                21.9
MARTICIPATION HATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.3         33.5      34.6               37.9                39.1
MALE                                50.8         49.2      48.2               51.3                 48.5
FEMALE                              16.2         16.5     20.3                23.7                29.6
ECONCKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4        1.2                1.2                 1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
EECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCET OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4           ..       18.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1        43.4      42.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5         7.5        7.'3
LOWEST 40 PERCMNT OP HOUSEHOLDS   13.7         19.2      19.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTTIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               107.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                86.5               192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..       ..                  ..               182.5
ESTLIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                46.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                51.7                33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea. between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963;  /d Due to changes in duration of levels in education, the ratios are not strictly coeparable
over time; /e 1962; /f 1972.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -                                                               ANNEX I'
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IND.ICATORD
Nones   Ainhoogh the data ate dran  foatoorces generally judged the moa  -tho-eiteti   and reOlahln. it should also b Dnted that they nay  -c  be ine--
natonalycoearelebecus   f h  leak of noadardied definitlone and noonspts used by dlffn,trtt ...ontina  inolrtu   the date.  The date are,noe
theesn  cfu  ttdeenho oderoa  agotouda. Ondioene nrandn, end tharata-i-  -terni  majon differaoen.b- h                 -tetoutnle
The refetete.t..      are ( 11)  b    naeontygop of tha aubj-on  ..ontry end (2) at ..tutny Stop  ioah nonhet high-t aterge incm   than the . tootry goup
of the                       ...o cny  etp  for  Caital SurPlus Oil foPonters" grouP ehere  Ohiddle bon  north Africa nod MiddlofeS   Ist i hosen .e.a.. ofnIoI     e
aolnon iuaatloole.  In tho neenon -gop da.ta  be             ge   n  puLeton weghe             anh..to meets for a-t   On notad sho.- 00Cr wbn.e
len  hl !o htouooe   It aE grou  has dene. for  hnIndIctor. iOn   the nIvna I f coorhnamn  the iodOtatrs depord  to tha  nlnllyo
of Sos indi-t-o an nIs   nuona...  th e oottry sodreroo   g            ..o.pa.
LAND ASIA (thbo..a.d sqiun.)                                                                 oratnpePhnIlas   P- rpution dittIeSd by numano of pretoht11g php-
Tone1 - Tonal aun ate area  -tompnlno  lend nnaad   ln   a.r.                                tln  qnIIe rn     e  oe   ooo                 on tnCy Inte.
Aartultoal- InImae o  antoulate - nn  usdt       noeol   rpraenl                  ouelo   e   oan  P_..oo  Pouletton  dOoledby nasber of prto.toleg
ftoooos  patrs         kare   in ttohe  gardeon or to lie fe11on; 1977 data.             nale nod femal  graduate  uae  rotla  ore, d ...eietan. ert
"Poeltion ten Sotaltd    on l.bu,,. end rorl   ,PoatinnInao
ISP  lO CPOTo(II)  -GNP Pertph   nla           tcrro        hnpte,tb                    orbn, nod rura) doilded by thet r rrpetavenobe  of bospine1 beds
rulated by  am  Iooan _on mehd Ia old Dan  SOle  (1977-79 beg);160                           vilable  to pabllo end private p-meta  adiepeniliped hoeplte1 andr-
190,ad  hS9ot.bbilitanlon tatr . npitela  -Se                                                                                          1  h..benn  pemeenly staffed
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER  - A. d                                       ~~~~~~~by an leatt-s  phaaa. Etenblleb-.nr  prt-iding pelnipalip.. ontdieI
Onnot COOIMTOONPthCAPITA -dne  ooauption of t_metia  energay (toel                      taeaeno   aldad.   urSo  hopittale, b-ve. iloolds health med  edioa1
and lOgnOte, potoe         aae  gI o   yro,otet end geohermeelo-                            -tanner  no  peraeenl  stffd  yi  phy.altn  (but by e modi..   asene
ortolyl I  klhcramaof nul aqlvalee ye  tapit.; 1960. 1970, and     8 197        ouar  mndntf, en.   h            ftIotr  opet int acte."ttt end pranld. 
Anna.                                                                                       lImited reogo of medioa1 faoilintia.  For- eisle  purpose  arba  boapl-
FOPLtIATIONS AnD 001.91STATISITICS                                                            toaloa i   loonl WOn ruralp. bept-l  and mepa  and  haterIty1 tendters.
Tota  PoulnOoo.NOd-ear(milion) -An ot July 1; 19b0, 1970, and 1978             Admeinalonee  One H loatl Bed - Totaloubn  of ediaei.n. to or dosobergee
dae                                                                                       drum ho-pitoal  divi-dedby the number of bede.
Irher Fo pleio   lereo  of total) - ltin of urban no nona1 p.oplation;
different dfitonof erbn area  may efetoparabflity ol' date                           gognoni
aogtotien; 1960. 1970, aod 1979  en.A-vsRaa    Ino  Sueod (rer-ona ne  hnuaehld) -  ntel.. u-ben  end tmeel
Ponulnlon  n ya   200     ..Curret poPulation mp -stin   r  bone.d at190           ed thetr~ sol  nel.  A boarder or loda a,          o   e  rtb inoaddIn
otell  poealnby eg  ad  s           Ied nheImettelity sod f-tnilityraeta.               the hou..ebold for  t-tintlcl-1 ronn
Pro-tni-n Pera.     r  for _otality ranne coeP-lee o  t1hreetp ..el  anaun=-         Anerean number t2nn rtom-nl oof                       .  nAcrl- Anr*eg a
log life eup-osa-y so birth increaniog oinh  -ouory            prepita incme           he  ofpeon  per ton.  Iaal  uhe..   rua   tuie   ovnional
lenel, and feml  life eup,e     -tt  sabilniag. an 77.5 y-ar.  The peta-               dnellinan,  -epeotinely.  Wnelline-  'de  Io-staat ettu                      n
osent   o e   rtIIty ta    ls  hens three leel. anale  deOIIIe in                       ......eDied yartn.
f-ttilityac.oording  no moose le-a  ..d peso family plannIngprftane                  Acceanto fleciitrico  fre-oeet of dollns)-toa,  ran   ndrra 
lath country he then eanisoed one of th.e nine toebinetion   of manteliny              iovninl  oolg    ith eletricity  It hymn quate..                       _
and fnrillnytenda fo  projetI .tno   "purp ie .  tht   .. t hi-                 of tonal, ucban, and rural dnel1toget-epeoi-els
the bIrth rtet Ca equal non thr death rte., ad also theegsstru--uren-    EDUCATION
thI_aenn  ee  ofua   etrpoutinrt, whe  net  feealn                             tim      col-  oa,ml end fs1le- rt...  otel., male end femal
of toet r-pl-tas itnelf euatly.  The  tnatiaary pepolattin siooa-orlen    falae   ttepOaylnln   eonAg   of respective
nnnmand  o te  ani  o  th  prj nte  oarateietna  f he  nnannn      prlsory  -ho-l-ega popoletio.a; noraly includes  thldnaedhC
Yin the  nr I01,md  thetee  of dnclioe offetility rtst to tyl..e-                           eaaht adjustad for differeno  1eno,he of primary edenttom; tot
YertneioneorX %orulono- In reached - Th. yea  ehe. onoaypoplatiot                        atn   nn   al    r               'elwn   bov PIt hoffloCa1 scoo  age.
nien hen been teethed.                                           ~~~~Secon.dary soheol -  otlsl  etd femal  - Computed es abov; secondary
Populatio  Des                                                                                 dcto   nurse   ea  to   er   fapoe   rmr   ntrucIes
Per no. ikn. -Kid-y-a  popolation Per equao  kilomter floe he-nrs) of                       provides genare-l, vo .at"one , o  aehe  tfniP       iP'ucionsfo  peti
hotel eree.                                                       usually~~~~~~~~~11  of 12 no 17 Yearn of age; tortespond-n  -ooras  are geoara11y
Per sq. L,  etclualln            Cospuned  a above for ostil -Ioe  land                    =1tlded.
Porultion an Stutur (t eoso)   tlhildrno (0-14 yn-r). e-king-ege  715-                        intludn  -hi-o1ha, loduanthal,  rohrpormt             elhoeaeIdpn
68yas,ad rtie   (1 eansd oe)a  p.tetoetoge  of mid-y.ea  popo-                              denoly o   ndprmnno  enod-r   nitto
lain    90   970, enI 17tdte'il-e ther IeC   - trmry,. ed ...o.dey -  .totn  etodenta enrolled In
Pouelolotbt _ste (ner-tnn  - tote1 - Annual growth rene o0 tonal mid-                   primary ianenndr  level  dovided by tumbera of ne-cher  ia the
Year popuc-tio.. for 1950-60, 19h0-70, end 1970-Pg.                                         crrespoodiog le-ln
Porulanon mont  lane  retreat  -urhe- Aen-a1 groeth tense of urba  pop..-        Adult literac   reI  (eron  - Lt,tnnrnnedulnn  (ebIe to ted and -rits)
1eti.n. for 1950-go',t.19860-70, end 1970-78..                                              easpereteg        faa  ada1t  poplanion eged 10 Yeee end over.
Crude Bimbt os  (pttousd  - A-Iee  live birnha Pnr theumad of mod-year
population; 1910, 1970, and 1978 date.                                                CONSUMPTIoON
Crude Detb Ots fet thounId) - Anuel daaths Per theuss o  of utd-ye-                       Paa..ena-r Care (per thounsod ....uatio        P... rae -ge  .tar   -topicemee
poputioo;1980,0970  end1978 dat,                                                     tr  seaning lens than sighs Perave  rut1adas umbul..n... hsersa  and
Orosa nrradu-niu   laeAvrg   nubrI            fdeigbntranoa     till bea  in                mill naryvnle
bat nralcprdcto  peid9feb7pein0eprnn                              ag-paii  Ott          -edlo Reevra          Ithuad nrlnol-altpeo   eeor    rnA
niliny raen; usualy live-yer avetegI ending In 1960, 190   n   97               reosnn  enea  puit Partosn   t  ouain  scua    e
Peiy  leno-Aonnr,aaul noeede     ana  nube  of ete-                   rn           cne  rciea  uthar                 o  t.. yer  nbs  regp-   tti- n of. te.dic e
tat   laooalat  (ersn  (  arid  one  -Pecfngeo ayern.sIa                              conaie  boi hetid -liltyteofI..eingf.    dJ
nomen o  th,.   -ee Itg ag  (15-Au years) W          A ... na  Icn-booo  deIcsto                                                                               f.lciae(e.bueo   ouetn  Ireevr   o   ra n  toi
yI                                              t-~~SeaaerCrnltno(o  thousand - OOaltiO   -  hwetaveerio.-
Ondenofi Food Prducion per(1-4 Cela  1h-7ia11h   -bind-- of pe   cp ta asui                 in-fdal  grre   tt e.e.sae . di-Se  faepebto.dio    pub
prouoid of all foo   goe godiie.Prdcinoldesedadfdad                                    TlRicanio   davnthd primril d    i . e...  A eerltes IIt is noed
Is  n tlederyen bsi.  lemdinesona  prmay god  (eg.surone            o e~. dailyif inaper  en leant.Pout time  ae1i ...dW
mODANnD   o   ue)eihaeeil   n                   ninnioe(..tfe  andRTIOCInem  uonul Anedne per. Ch.it tar .tst-ti aed  on .the- number of
tearenclued.  A5reat  prducionofsno  nonty i  baed00                ockna  ol  daingth  yer,  orudig aafefos t  Aniv-lotlnme
notiona  averag  producr pric  weight; 1991-D, 197. -pend 1978dens          and mobile urine.:,                      ..l.)- h             b.Vt.e
me... otfer  etImte  by.  P0 basd  on..ydoogIaonethttennml  ot--97  dta
end eon - ddianribunlon o     pop da ion , and alown  10.. peroIo  fo  ne..   i         gCftulOAen  (troni   Labor.IS   foCe in fam .fte-y   utn   n
hoshldlvl;19--5  1970,  en  17     9dt ,                                        fIshing esl peotnonge of yt,itldlabo   forte; 1910  190tno       17 d.i .ana
yarn  tieaol   f ocutein  (ersP         e  Any   r- Po  sle sonnetsdof-pnspn            Indunr  febil o)  - tabofrei   ioo,onnuhou   auan
ten enpy ..i eof     f  food pe   a . Ntpply. of bl food  ote eIe  as above    L-       AndR FRElorty,enrodgeapteogeftnllbrfa ;190
allosoc  ofh40gram  on tonlk roei  pendyad  0ga   o   nml n                            sntiain  aeIareo    mon.  male., ednoti-                    Pric.ipno  en
orda are lomerthen Ibose of75 grass of noel protein so  03 gras ofoy*oglo :I,;1.d                                                           Itc
Oortld Poo  Outry 1991-o5, 1970 s. ..od 1977den.                                        1980,1970tnod  975  ata.         TeeatL Depriiaiorae=elona
PetteIneprte  t.sl  taanmlcdtas-PoenuplyAof .                            nod de-_        age-se s.trutr   ftepplein   o   ognseos                           e   al
rita fo  animals ad  pulses in grm per day;i. 1981-65  190ed17   aa                       as  aret.. fro  nationel atortes.90 .
yP.11                                   f.,        et                                           f.Y.. .. p.tc..t.g. of tto shettota.laborfforte
hre  date derood  from  life65   tables;d 196,170 eod. 190dae.                         CIfOISTEIT8
an birth;  lqo, 197l sod 1979 data.bihdb    DAt'      f    ii                            17            97dt
Itfant  .t  ofnain  lan  (m huue)-_nuldah ofId2 inats onfe  one year                  POOTTAtIiyp
Act1ss  pto nftAni    fere of hh 1 o0  olo      ne.ubn  edrrl-Aslt   san  Intonet level is -t!tthen  inrdm levl helo 1ebio af ISme
oidr suppl iocluhse treate  suf  ace-  o wtarn 1 orutreteid ho   t oroon f i              pid   tcdel.t..   ftt1    l   .   .1   o
tee iuh  eta  frm Ir nete  toohnne  syrInge, an.d  ey anlieary nais) ma          Itmndlltn    oet  aoeLve  IOnncnn)-ob   n   ua 
WotnadeFrod    no   thntenal  ac7s  of ntno hous.  I  rualPt.
not hae to  pend adieprportioate prt of he da tin .pyo te   odohing the.. IsOs teSPoltio  sao  abeolanPonrd InRtone Ltted (Amet f-  urban
do                                                                               andt rttal -pP-ndeor of61population  (e9r7ad.and none1) nba era ta...oIe...poor.
rrl-smeofpol(nilura,adrall) Pserved by ds J.rsta
dleptpe1l  ye pere tagsof thieirL respectiv   p .pulfttna   -nrn d...1ie -                                               eomi  n   oia   sanvs
of  uma  narea ad net.-wterby  atr-bruenyofm ortheus  oftothe    1990                                                             e  b    .h.
pi  pivesso  amia   Cnss -sits.g                  btoy.,oflf                 i..                 _ t ih-2p.tt,p..t2p--                                 dp     -4ptet



ANNEX I
- 23-                     Page 4
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN  1980 BY SECTOR                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
Value Added
$ Million    %                      1970-77         1977-80        1970-80
Agriculture                       1,038    27.6                       2.0             3.5           2.5
Industry a/                       1,116    29.6                       2.1             8.6           4.0
Services                          1,612    42.8                       3.7             7.6           4.9
Total b/                      3,766   100.0                       2.9             6.8           4.0
GROSS DOMIESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ Million          %
GDP at Market Prices                                 4,130           100.0
Investment                                           1,480            35.8
Gross National Savings                                 675            16.3
Current Account Balance                                805            19.5
Exports of Goods and NFS                             1,295            31.3
Imports of Goods and NFS                             2,211            53.5
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs Mlillion)    % of GDP at Miarket Price,s-
1980          1975     1979       1980
Current Receipts c/                12,927           17.2     23.1       18.9
Current Expenditures d/            14,594           18.3     22.8       21.4
Current Surplus                    -1,667          -1.1       0.2       -2.4
Capital Expenditures e/            12,772            7.3     14.1       18.7
External Assistance                 5,717            3.2      7.2        8.4
a/  Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/  GDP at factor cost.
cl Includes capital revenue.
d/ Includes advance accounts.
e/ Includes net lending.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA                                Page  5.
November
MONEY, CREDTT, AND PRICES                       1970      1975       1976      1977      1978      1979        1980
(end of period)                                                          (Rs Hillicn)-
Mioney and Quasi Money                        3,061    4,712        6,251    8,636   10,803   14,957          18,948
aank Credit to Public Sector                  2,680    2,460       3,725    4,834    4,518    6,703           12,273
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 1,446    3,363        3,919    5,714    8,666   11,853          16,145
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of CDP              22.4       17.8       20.9      24.0      25.3      28.7            -
General Price Index (1970 = 100)               100.0    143.3       145.2     147.0    164.8    182.6          230.3 a/
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                            +5.9      +6.7       +1.3       +1.2    +12.1    +10.8          +26.1 al
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  +15.9      +9.4      +51.4    +35.0        -6.5    +48.4         +83.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  +0.7      +5.5      +16.5    +45.8    +51.7    +36.8            +36.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCEIANDISE EXPORTS (1980)
1979      1980
(USS Million)                                                    $ Million          S
Exports of Goods, NFS                    1,135    1,295                  Tea                                    373         35.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                    1,539    2,211                  Rubber                                 156         14.9
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                -404      -916                 Coconut Products                        45          4.3
Interest Payments (net)                     -9       -12                 All Other Commodities                  471         45.1
Workers' Remittances                         -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -7       -14                        Total                         1,045 b/    100.0
Net Transfers                               48       137
Balance on Current Account                -372      -805
Direct Foreign Investment                   47        43               EXTERNAL DEBT ($ Mtillion) c/
Net hKLT Borrowing                         162       247
Disbursements                            225       309                                                   December        December
Amortization                              63        62                                                      1979           1980
rapital Grants                             144       138
Other Capital (net)                        +67      +157                 Total Outstanding                   1,773.3        2,264.9
Change in Reserves (+ - increase)          +48      -220
Total Outstanding
Gross Reserves (end-year)                  626       377                   and Disbursed                     1,091.1        1,327.6
Net Reserves (end-year)                    258        38
DEBT SERVICE RATIO d/ (Z)                 9.8            9.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1980 ($ Million)
IBRD        IDA
1967-71                       End 1976
US$1.00 - Rs 5.93              US$1.00 - Rs 8.83                         Outstanding and Disbursed                         30.7        97.9
Rs 1.00 - US$0.17              Rs 1.00 - US$0.11                         Undisbursed                                          -       263.8
Outstanding, includi s Undisbursed               307         36T.7
End 1972                       End 1977
UT51.00 = Rs 6.70              US$1.00 - Rs 15.56
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15              Rs 1.00 - US$0.06
End 1973                       End 1978                                Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate (FEEC) Rates e/
US$1.00 - Rs 6.75              US$1.00 - Rs 15.51
Rs 1.00 - US$0.15              Rs 1.00 - US$0.06                       1968                       US$1.00 -Rs  8.54 (44% FEEC)
1969 to 1971              US$1.00 -Rs  9.19 (55% FEEC)
End 1974                       End 1979                                1972 (end)                US$1.00   Rs 10.38 (55% FEEC)
US$1.00 - Rs 6.69              US$1.00 = Rs 15.45                      1973 (end)                 US$1.00 = Rs 11.13 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 - US$0.15              Rs 1.00 - US$0.06                       1974 (end)                US$1.CO - Rs 11.04 (65% FEEC)
1975 (end)                US$1.00 =Rs 12.72 (65% FEEC)
End 1975                       End 1980                                1976 (end)                US$1.00 = Rs 14.57 (65% FEEC)
USSI.OO - Rs 7.71              USS1.O0 - Rs 18.00                      1977 (until Nlov. 15)    US$1.00 - Rs 13.02 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13              Rs 1.00 - US$0.06
a! Full year data.
bn/ Customs data.
cI Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
d/ Ratio of debt service, excluding short-term capital repayments and IIIF repurchases to exports of goods
and non-factor servfces.
e/ The certificates were abolished on November 15, 1977.
South Asia Programs DeDartment
May 12, 1981



ANNEX II
- 25 -                       Page I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                          Amount (net of
Credit                                                           cancellations)
No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose                     Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed              72.9   66.8
504    1974  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development                          9.0      5.7
666    1976  Sri Lanka  Tank Irrigation Modernization              5.0      3.4
701    1977  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II              19.0    14.8
709    1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                               9.2       .7
742    1977  Sri Lanka  DFC - Industrial IV                        8.0      1.8
818    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)             21.0    17.3
819    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Diversification (Tea)             4.5     1.2
891    1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development               20.0    17.2
900    1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                           16.5    15.9
931    1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                      15.5    14.7
942    1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                16.0    12.6
979    1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical
Assistance                              3.0     2.8
994    1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                   53.0    52.4
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                     16.0    15.8
1020   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                        30.0    30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                       30.0    30.0
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                               19.5    19.5
1079   1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                  33.5    33.5
1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry Project             13.5    13.5
Total,                                                     72.9  409.0   302.8
of which has been repaid                                 42.4    0.4
Total now outstanding                                      30.5  408.6
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                          30.5  361.6
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
Year         Obligor               Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1970  Pearl Textile               Textiles                  2.50   0.75      3.25
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -      0.10      0.10
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.00    -        2.00
1979  Cyntex                      Textiles                  3.15   0.53      3.68
1979  Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag         0.90   0.10      1.00
1980  Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon   Development Banking         -      0.05      0.05
1980  LOLC                        Leasing                    -     0.26      0.26
Total Gross Commitments                         8.55   1.79    10.34
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                    3.78   0.74       4.52
Total Commitments now held by IFC               4.77   1.05      5.82



ANNEX II
- 26 -                       Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project focus has been shifted from the provision of credit for
cattle purchase and on-farm development to the establishment of Dairy Producer
Associations along the lines of the successful Anand pattern in India. The
successful ongoing calf/heifer rearing and pasture production components have
been expanded. The closing date was extended by one year to permit Credit
proceeds to be used to finance preparation of the feasibility study for the
proposed milk processing plant near Kandy. The extension also provides IDA
with the opportunity to continue its dialogue with the Government on the
milk price/subsidy issue.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Excellent progress has been made on the progress of the project
during the last six months. The staff and equipment provided are capable
and adequate to complete the project by end 1982 if required rupee funds
are made available by the Government as needed. However, the Government
currently is experiencing a severe shortfall of local funds and most Depart-
mental budgets have been sharply reduced (average of 25-35%).  The water
management program initiated during the last maha season went very well (in
fact, the program averted a complete crop failure which would have occurred
due to drought conditions) and farmers' reaction to it was good. A similar
program will be introduced in the other four tanks during the next maha
season.
Cr. No. 701 -  Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project implementation progress has slowed, primarily due to the
severe shortage of local funds for the project during the last quarter of
1980 and for 1981. Management problems and the turning over of settlement
and operation and maintenance responsibilities to Mahaweli Authority from
Mahaweli Development Board have also contributed to a slowing of work activ-
ities. It now appears that project completion will be delayed at least one
year beyond the date anticipated at appraisal (from June 1982 to June 1983).
The primary and secondary irrigation works are nearly completed and, with
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27-
ANNEX II
Page 3
the exception of some measurement structures, are of good quality. Over
80% of the farms have now been settled. The farmer settlers appear, for
the most part, to be satisfied with their new farms and with the project.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977;
Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project has made good progress in the procurement of equipment
and materials and in the construction of civil works. The IDA Credit and
the IDA administered CIDA Credit are almost entirely disbursed; however,
disbursements from the EEC Special Action Credit continue to be slow. Finan-
cial Management of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) has
improved with WDB now producing the financial information required for
management.
WDB's progress in implementing consumer metering is unsatisfactory.
It has recently taken steps to accelerate the program.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Subprojects for US$7.8 million have been authorized. DFCC remains
a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of activity, which
could increase further now that DFCC's staffing problems are being addressed,
and possibilities for expanding DFCC's low equity base are being pursued.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million
of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project progress is close to target for field work, in spite of
severe drought in early 1980. Housing and health components are behind
schedule. Consultants have been engaged to help implement these components.
Tea margins have deteriorated due to doubling of tea fertilizer prices. The
Government is expected to take compensatory measures to restore tea margins.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million
of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The National Agricultural Development and Settlement Authority,
the project executing agency, has developed into a mature development organi-
zation. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in field
work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarcation,
and soil conservation work have been completed. About 2,000 settlers have
occupied their houses. Farm planting schedule was disrupted by the severe
and prolonged drought last year. With better conditions this year, all
plantings are expected to be completed by end-1981.



- 28-                        ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million
of April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is generally on schedule; rural electrification works
have already been completed; and rural roads and education works should be
completed by the end of the year. Problems on quality of construction of
irrigation and education works were identified at early stage of project imple-
mentation. Supervisory consultants, appointed for the Second Rural Development
Project (Cr. No. 1079), will help improve construction activities. Improve-
ments on the institutional arrangements for agricultural credit and agricul-
tural extension are somewhat slower than expected. High cost overruns were
noted in nearly all project components. Efforts are being made to cut down
cost by introducing farmers' donated labor for some of the activities.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
A general 25% reduction in budget allocations for the present finan-
cial year, followed by a further 10%, has meant a rescheduling of proposed
expenditure for the project. This has been possible without sacrificing
principal project objectives but at the cost of deferring major rehabilitation
work until towards the end of the project. Meantime, institution building and
introduction of improved road maintenance methods continues, and providing it
is possible for Government to provide increased funds for subsequent years,
project completion is expected by March 1984, six months later than planned
at appraisal.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation during the first year has been slower than anticipated
due to delays in procurement and staffing. Recently, however, most full time
staff have been recruited and procurement of vehicles and equipment are underway.
With these, implementation is likely to improve. Civil works are progressing
satisfactorily. Some questions have been raised as to the feasibility of
operating the T&V method of extension in the wet zones dominated by tree crops,
absentee landlord and inadequate infrastructure. These and other implementa-
tion issues would be reviewed by IDA and the Government in July, 1981.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million
of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million,
so as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. About 80% of the



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5
total subloan amount has been committed, and disbursements which have acceler-
ated during the last six months,, are expected to be completed one year ahead
of schedule. Most technical and marketing service assistance activities have
been launched.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million of
April 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 7, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The consultants for System C and Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal
are nearing the end of their consulting agreement with GOSL. The designs and
preliminary layouts of the irrigation system and hamlet infrastructure, for
the 1,000 ha sample area (actually 1,677 ha) have been completed and reviewed.
The detailed studies pointed up significant differences between the consul-
tant's and MDB's design criteria. However, agreed criteria were finally
adopted, which will require a redesign of irrigation and settlement infrastruc-
ture in Zones 3 and 4 previously completed by MDB.  The preparation of working
drawings for the transbasin canal is keeping pace with the contractor's require-
ments. The consultants plan to phase out their operations in June and July
1981. The consultants for the Transbasin Diversion Study continue to make good
progress, however delays in completion of topographic maps required for the Mi
Oya Basin and the South East Dry Zone by the Surveyor General's Department and
the addition of a new study area have delayed submission of the consultants'
Planning Report by about five weeks. The report will now be submitted by June
15, 1981 and a full review of the consultants' alternative development plans
is scheduled for the week of June 29, 1981 in Colombo between the consultants,
GOSL and IDA. Additional staff time will be required by the consultants,
which was anticipated at the time of contract approval. It appears adequate
funds are available in the credit.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million of April 16,
1980; Effective Date: October 27, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Consultants have commenced work in the fields of procurement,
industrial engineering and accounting and route planning. Procurement is
lagging about 18 months behind appraisal estimates. No disbursements have
been made except for consultancy services. Because of the present delays,
the original plan of 2,100 bus chassis is unlikely to be accomplished either
in time or within the project costs. Current indications are that only 1,600
new buses will be put into service during the project period.
Cr. No. 1017 - Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1986.
Most of the proposed institutional reorganization has been completed
and recruitment of extension staff is continuing. Preparation for the first
planting season (1981) is well underway. Response by farmers to participate
in replanting under the project has been highly satisfactory.



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1020 - Telecommunications Project; US$30.0 million of June 24, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of organizational improvements under the project. The
Government has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates. Procurement
is about two to three months behind schedule but all bid invitations are
expected to be issued by the end of September 1981.
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30.0 million of
September 24, 1980; Effective Date: February 26, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
WDB has appointed engineering consultants to supervise the construc-
tion of the sewerage works under the Project and the financial consultants for
completion of WDB's organization management and financial study. On January
8, 1981, WDB signed an agreement for parallel financing in the amount of US$30
million with the Saudi Fund for Development.
Cr. No. 1048 - Sixth Power Project; US$19.5 million of September 24, 1980
Effective Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily; tender documents for
four of the five contracts to be financed by IDA have been advertised. An
agreement for cofinancing in the amount of US$20.0 million was signed between
the Government and Saudi Fund for Development on January 8, 1981. The average
tariff for power supplied by the Ceylon Electricity Board was increased from
about Rs 0.30 to Rs 0.58/kWh on October 1, 1980. The first phase of manage-
ment consultancy has been completed and engineering consultants have been
appointed to design the project components to be financed by the Saudi Fund.
Cr. No. 1079 - Second Rural Development Project; US$33.5 million of February 2,
1981; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The Credit Agreement was signed on February 2, 1981. Supervisory
consultants have been appointed and procurement of essential vehicles and
equipment initiated.
Cr. No. .... - Construction Industry Project; US$13.5 million; Not Yet
Signed.
The Project was approved by the Executive Directors on April 7, 1981.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
Ten months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Lands and Land Development, with the
assistance of FAO/CP.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
July 5, 1980 - August 25, 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
August 25, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 24, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 31, 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness
(a) Appointment of a Deputy Commissioner (Water Management)
and a Water Management Engineer (para 42);
Other Conditions
(b) annual review and appropriate adjustment of the dis-
trict irrigation programs and staff (para 41);
(c) establishment of twelve agricultural planning teams
by December 31, 1981 (para 42);
(d) selection of rehabilitation schemes and plans and
designs of works to be in accordance with specifica-
tions and guidelines satisfactory to IDA (para 43);
and
(e) preparation and submission to IDA by December 31, 1981
of details of monitoring and evaluation studies (para 46).



IBRD 15450
6. ~~~~~~~~~~~~.DECMI" M9O
SRI LANKA
Kankes                                    VILLAGE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
-National rood$
District boundaries
-    Aor"otic zone
r/  A F f tS 4 .                          Elaevotuon tifae1:t)
SooS
*    -i~~~~~~jarar
14~~~~~~~~~W ji/N -                                    5000hhc noe     yafB     
gay  of   engo gl
/ n d  a n                                                               Oe5
0c e a r7
egg  Co ACIi gigegNeCom
o     RIC HINA        T
PAKISTANjf ~     CHN               T   
L\~hStiANKA
:X
sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mott ndnso an                        innn  ielo  Rengo .r  e~
\  ~                                                  .~



