Report No. PID11528
Project Name             COLOMBIA-CO-CUNDINAMARCA...
EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROV
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Primary education (100%)
Project ID               P077757
Borrower(s)              DEPARTMENT OF CUNDINAMARCA
Implementing Agency
Address SECRETARY OF EDUCATION OF
CUNDINAMARCA
Address: Calle 26 No. 47-73 Piso 4
Contact Person: Piedad Caballero
Tel: 571 4260309
Fax: 571 4261616
Email: Piecab@colomsat.net.co
pcaballerop@cundinamarca.gov.co
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        December 16, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 7, 2003
Bank Approval Date       July 30, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the
project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS document number: R99-201- Date of latest CAS
discussion: 18 November 1999
The proposed project is in conformity with the goals and priorities
outlined in the CAS for Colombia, whose main two objectives are (i)
poverty reduction and social development, and (ii) sustainable growth.
Specifically, this project would contribute to these goals by expanding
coverage and improving the quality of education as key factors for
increasing economic competitiveness and growth, reducing poverty and
inequity, supporting the decentralization process in the education sector,
and building a peaceful society. The 1999 CAS update put a stronger
emphasis on successfully implementing Colombia's decentralization and
community participation policies.
The new CAS under preparation (to be presented to the Board in January
2003) recognizes that the long-standing armed conflict and violence driven
by common criminal activities, especially drug-related, are the most
important issues facing Colombia as a nation. In Colombia, stable
economic growth rates have historically been instrumental to reduce
poverty and increase public resources for social spending. However,
during the second half of the 1990s, Colombia entered into a severe
economic crisis, erasing over a decade of progress in poverty reduction,
and undermining Colombia's ambitious social agenda. Economic prosperity
alone will not be sufficient to stop the violence, but increased poverty



could further inflame the situation.
To support this strategy, the Bank lending program focuses on operations
that would: (a) have the most tangible impact on poverty alleviation; (b)
achieve fast and sustainable growth while protecting the poor; (c)
incorporate the lessons learned from Bank operations, particularly from
on-going Learning and Innovative Loans, and (d) pilot innovative
interventions with important demonstration effects. The CAS proposes a
lending program for IBRD of about US$3 billion for the remainder of FY03
to August of FY06, in order to align the WBG's strategy and instruments
with Uribe's administration term of office. This substantial increase in
lending is justified by the ambitious program of the Uribe administration
to build the foundation for lasting peace and to achieve poverty
reduction.
2. Objectives
The developmental objective of the project is to assist the Government of
the Department of Cundinamarca in improving the productivity,
competitiveness and citizenship of young people joining the labor force
after completing basic and secondary education. This development
objective, which supports the Department's economic and social progress
strategy, would be achieved by improving the academic outcomes of the
basic and secondary education system and achieving better competencies and
life skills among young graduates. These goals would be accomplished
through the following main two components: (i) improving the pedagogical
and management performance of schools; and (ii) increasing the management
capacity and effectiveness of the Education Secretariat of Cundinamarca at
both the central and decentralized levels. The pedagogical and management
performance of schools would be strengthened by improving the quality and
relevance of the learning process through continuous and comprehensive
interventions with respect to the classroom pedagogical process,
educational inputs and school management. This approached recognizes the
crucial complementarity of five dimensions of academic performance:
teacher effectiveness, quality of the learning experience the classroom
(pedagogical practices, instructional resources and competency-based
content); school management; partnerships with enterprises and social
actors, and systematic evaluation of the educational outcomes. The
institutional capacity of the Educational Secretariat of the Cundinamarca
Department would by strengthened by: (i) improving the educational
evaluation system; (ii) developing the tools for a medium term
participatory educational planning process; (iii) improving educational
statistics; and (iv) enhancing decentralized management at the municipal
and school levels.
These objectives would contribute to: (i) supporting the educational
quality improvement policy and strategy of the Department of Cundinamarca
targeted to disadvantaged schools in rural areas and peri-urban areas and
students under high educational risk; (ii) achieving increased equity by
providing better educational inputs in socially and economically deprived
areas; (iii) increasing coverage in agreement with the goals of the
Departmental Development Plan 2001 - 2004; (iv) strengthening the
participation of key stakeholders in the educational process and
management of schools; and (v) offering new opportunities for continuing
education to dropouts and graduates.
-2-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's financial and technical assistance will provide a valuable
contribution to project design and implementation. First, the Bank has
played a key role in the initiation of several education reforms in past
years following requests of the Colombian authorities. Second, the Bank
has substantial lending experience with projects focusing on quality
improvement programs that ensure a maximum efficiency of educational
investments in client countries, including Colombia. Third, the
preparation of this project is based on a strategy of progressive
interventions in the education system applying the lessons learned in
Colombia and elsewhere in the region. Four, project preparation offers the
opportunity to bring to Colombia global expertise associated with
successful interventions in education quality improvement and
decentralization. Finally, this proposed project will in turn become an
important laboratory for continuous learning by the country and the Bank.
4. Description
The Project includes the following three components (i) Improving Quality
and Relevance; (ii) Institutional Strengthening; and (iii) Project
Administration and Monitoring
Component 1. Improving Quality and Relevance (80- of the total amount).
This first component would entail: (i) improving pedagogical practices;
(ii) developing and providing adequate instructional resources, learning
materials and competency-based curriculum guides; (iii) building up the
managerial capacity of school principals; (iv) establishing strategic
partnerships between the schools, the productive sectors and civil society
to increase the relevance of education and facilitate the labor market
insertion of secondary graduates. The partnerships will be the recipients
of funds and those will be allocated on a subprojects competitive basis.
Component 2. Institutional Strengthening (10w of the total). This
component will strengthen the institutional and management capacity of the
Cundinamarca Education Secretariat. It will address, in particular, the
institutional and organizational needs generated by an increasingly
decentralized system. Ihis component will focus specifically on: (i)
improving assessment methods for the continuous evaluation of education
quality, including the expansion of the existing student achievement tests
to all grades; (ii) improving education statistics and performance
indicators; and (iii) designing and implementing a Ten Year Education
Development Plan. The main focus of the Plan would be on: (a) setting
objectives and targets for each educational level; (b) strengthening the
decentralization process in terms of the new responsibilities and
accountability structures in the provision of educational services at the
municipality and school levels; (c) developing strategic partnerships for
the management of the education system ; (d) implementing an equity
strategy to reduce regional and social disparities in the delivery of
education services; (e) formulating a strategy to improve the internal
and external efficiency of the education system; and (f) using the quality
assessment system to measure the educational results for policy-making
decisions.
Component 3. Project Administration and Monitoring (10%): This component
will finance the Project Coordination Unit operating within the Education
Secretariat of Cundinamarca. The PCU will be in charge of (i) planning
-3 -



and programming, (ii) monitoring project implementation including
disbursements and collection of expenditure documentation, (iii) carrying
out the procurement of goods and services financed by the project (Loan
and counterpart funds), (iv) coordination of technical activities of the
project with the national Ministry of Education, the municipalities in
Cundinamarca and the partners in the productive sectors and civil society,
(v) communicating with the Bank.
Project Cost. During the project preparation process the costs and
sources of financing will be more thoroughly defined.
l.Improving the quality and relevance of basic and secondary education
2.Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Cundinamarca Secretariat
of Education
3.Establishing a project coordination unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $10.00
IBRD $15.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $25.00
6. Implementation
implementation period: August, 2003 to July 31, 2007
The following aspects related to project implementation will be confirmed
during preparation
and pre-appraisal.
n Overseeing : Government of Cundinamarca
n General coordination: Educational Secretariat
n Management structure: Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
n Execution: Structure of the education secretariat, municipalities and
schools
n Monitoring and evaluation: PCU
n Reporting: PCU
n Financial, Procurement and Auditing: Bank procedures
fn Supervision: Bank
The project would be implemented by the Secretariat of Public Education
(SEP). A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established under the
SEP. The PCU will be responsible for overall project coordination and
will work in close coordination with the line departments within SEP which
will be responsible for implementation of the components. Specifically
PCU will be responsible for procurement, financing, follow-up, monitoring,
and evaluation of project implementation. The operational procedures as
well as the institutional mechanisms to approve and implement competitive
projects for strengthening schools partnership will be formulated at the
preparation stage and reviewed during pre-appraisal. It will be important
to coordinate implementation of this new project with the ongoing
Institutional Strengthening project of the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) and the Bank's own Rural Development project which promotes
partnerships between municipalities and the productive sectors in several
Departments, including Cundinamarca.
- 4-



A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) will be elaborated by the
project preparation team to be reviewed during the preparation mission.
This PIP will provide full information concerning the general
implementation and organizational arrangements of the proposed project and
will include a detailed implementation schedule and yearly input, process
and output targets, as well as a procurement plan. The Quality Assurance
Group guidelines will frame the context of the Bank's pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions (see section.. of the PCD). The usual accounting,
financial, auditing and reporting procedures that Colombia sets up to
implement investments projects will be adopted for the proposed project in
line with Bank procedures and regulations. The monitoring and evaluation
arrangements will be discussed and reviewed at pre-appraisal.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the proposed project has to be analysed along two
dimensions: (i) financial; and (ii)institutional. As stated in section
E2, a first draft of the financial requirements for project implementation
including long-term recurrent liabilities (financial sustainability) will
be made available during the pre appraisal mission. This information will
allow to assess the recurrent cost implications of the project on the SEP
budget.  Equally important as the financial sustainability is the
institutional sustainability, including the legal, organizational and
technical arrangements needed to ensure the continuation of the activities
developed and financed by the project beyond the life of the project. It
should be highlighted in this respect that actual implementation of this
project will take place within the context of the regular structure,
procedures and responsibilities of existing SEP departments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following key lessons, based on international experience and findings
from ICRs and impact studies of recent education projects in Colombia as
well as observations made derived from the supervision of ongoing projects
at the national and decentralized levels, have been considered in the
project design:
n The most effective pedagogical interventions take place at the school
and classroom level and are student-centered, meaning that an effective
learning environment is constructed in the education community around a
curriculum connected to skills, competencies and knowledge.
n Learning inputs need to be aligned with the curriculum and expected
competencies.
n Comprehensive interventions that deal in a complementary way with school
management, the provision of educational materials, and the introduction
of innovative classroom methodologies are likely to be more effective.
n To promote strategic partnerships at the school level, it is better to
combine supply-driven actions (initiated by the Education Secretariat) and
demand-driven programs like the use of competitive subprojects.
n To increase the likelihood of achieving the expected project impact, it
is recommended to have a simple design including: (i) limited objectives;
(iii) a simple structure; and (iii) alignment with the existing
implementation capacity of the Department
n For improved decentralized management there is a need for: (a) strong
leadership by school principals; (b) clear goals that can be monitored;
(c) widespread ownership of the reform goals through participation of the
beneficiaries and teachers in the diagnosis of the schools problem and the
- 5 -



design of the changes/solutions; (d) empowerment of schools to implement
their own pedagogical projects in connection with the needs of the local
labor market; and (e) school accountability based on the use of continuous
information and feedback on performance and ways of improve it.
fn There is a need for a well-designed monitoring system and for continuous
cross-fertilization activities to be in a position to make adjustments as
issues arise during project implementation. Monitoring performance
objectives in coordination with representatives of participating national
and sub-national entities is crucial for effective project
implementation. In a decentralized context. a basic monitoring and
auditing system is essential to the provision of timely assistance to
local authorities.
Projects that undertake comprehensive national educational reform
programs-such as achieving universal basic education, improving quality,
and establishing sector finances at the local level- should identify
concrete and measurable objectives that can be attained within the project
period.
n Involvement of the Local Authorities can have a positive demonstration
effect. The success of the Secondary Education Project in the mid-1990s
incited Local Authorities to invest more in the education sector and to
seek other Bank loans. In recent years, two "decentralized" loans are
under satisfactory implementation (both in development objectives and
disbursement/implementation) , one with the Department of Antioquia and
the other with the Municipality of Pasto. The results and impact of those
projects are going to be measured by an intensive learning ICR
n Need to anticipate the impact of frequent turnover of Education
Secretariat staff: The political history of Colombia reveals that there
are usually several changes of key government officials during any
political term period. It is therefore important to anticipate what type
of contingency measures can be taken to minimize the impact of these
frequent changes on project ownership and implementation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This proposed project does not envisage any
significant environmental issues.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Martha Laverde
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: Resident Mission in Bogota:
571 326 3600 Ext 226
Fax: 571 326 3480
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
-6-



Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 20, 2002.
-7 -



