                                          Document of
                                     The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                        ReportNo: 25933-CO




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$15.0MILLION

                                            TO THE

                          DEPARTAMENTODE CUNDINAMARCA

               WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                             FOR A

                CUNDINAMARCA EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT

                                           PROJECT


                                          July 10, 2003




Colombia andMexico
CountryManagementUnit
HumanDevelopmentManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             (Exchange RateEffective May 21,2003)
                              CurrencyUnit       =    Peso
                                             1 = US$2,817.32 ColombianPesos)
                                    US$l,OOO     =    0,00035494 Colombianpesos

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 --     December31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAFAM   Family Compensation Fund(Caja                   NCB      National Competitive Bidding
        de Compensacih Familiar)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     NDP      NationalDevelopment Plan (Hacia unEstado
                                                                 Comunitario)
CDP     Cundinamarca Development Plan                   NEP      National Education Plan (Revolucih Educativa)
CQ      Consultants' Qualification or.                  NGOs,    Non- governmental Organization
DANE    Instituteo fNational Statistics                 OECD     Organization for Economic Co-operation and
                                                                 Development
D O     Development Objectives                          O M      Project Operational Manual
EA      Environmental Assessment                        0°C      Oficina Regional de Educaci6n para America
                                                                 Latina y e l Caribe
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                   PAD      Project Appraisal Document
FMR     Financial Management Report                     PCU      Project Coordination Unit
FS      Situado Fiscal                                  PEI      Institutional EducationalPlan
FSL     SpreadLoan                                      PEM      Municipal Education Project
GDP     Gross National Product                          PSR      Project SupervisionReport
GOC     Govemment o f Colombia                          QER      Quality Enhancement Review Report
GPS     General Participation System (Sistema General   RPA      Regional Procurement Adviser
        de Participaciones)
ICB     Intemational Competitive Bidding                SA        Special Account
ICFES   Instituto Colombian0 para el Foment0 de la      SABER     Leaming Achievement Test
        Educaci6n Superior
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank                 SAT      Tutorial Leaming System (Sistema de Aprendizaje
                                                                 Tutorial)
IP      ImplementationProgress                          SBDs      Standard BiddingDocuments
JUME    Municipal Education Councils                    SEC       Cundinamarca Secretariat of Education
L A C   Latinoamerican Countries                        SENA      National Leaming Service
LCS     Least Cost Selection                            SOEs      Statements o f Expenditures
LCSHD   Human Development Sector Management             UNDP      UnitedNation Development Programme
        Unit
M I S   Management Information System.                  UNESCO UnitedNations, Education, Scientific and
                                                                  Cultural Organization
 M O E  MinistryofEducation                             UNICEF    UnitedNation Children's Fund(Fondo de las UN
                                                                  para la Infancia)


                                       Vice President:     Davidde Ferranti
                                   Country Director:       IsabelGuerrero
                                      Sector Director:     Ana Maria Arriagada
                                  Task TeamLeader          Martha Laverde

                                                                  FOR OFFICLALUSEONLY


                                                 COLOMBIA
                      CUNDINAMARCA EDUCATIONQUALITY IMPROVEMENT


                                                 CONTENTS


        A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

           1. Project development objective                                                       3
           2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

        B. Strategic Context

           1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
           2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
           3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  11

        C. Project DescriptionSummary

           1. Project components                                                                  15
           2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       16
           3. Benefits and target population                                                      17
           4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements                                         17

        D.Project Rationale

           1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           18
           2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies        19
           3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                   20
           4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                   22
           5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         22

        E. Summary Project Analysis

           1. Economic                                                                            23
           2. Financial                                                                           23
           3. Technical                                                                           24
           4. Institutional                                                                       24
           5. Environmental                                                                       27
           6. Social                                                                              27
           7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   29
           8. Business Policies                                                                   29




This document has a restricted distribution andmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainabilityand Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     29
   2. Critical risks                                                                     30
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     31

G. MainLoanConditions

   1. EffectivenesS Condition                                                            31

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           31

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             32



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                           33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    37
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           48
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    55
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    70
           (B) FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                         75
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     82
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    83
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 84
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            87
Annex 11:The Partnership Sub-projects                                                    89

MAP:IBRD32455

                                                COLOMBIA
                              Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement
                                    ProjectAppraisal Document
                                     LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion
                                                   LCSHD
Date: July 10,2003                                      Team Leader: Martha Laverde
Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada                    Sector(s): Secondary education(70%),
Country Director: IsabelM.Guerrero                      Primary education(30%)
Project ID: PO77757                                     Theme(s): Educationfor all (P), Educationfor
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)       the knowledgeeconomy (S)
Project Financing Data
 [XILoan        [ ] Credit     [ ] Grant        [XIGuarantee        [ ]Other:


For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): $15.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL)
                                                    Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85%                               Front end fee (FEF)on Bank loan: 1.OO%
                                                    Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initialchoice of Interest-ratebasis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
 [X] Fixedat Commitment, with the following repayment method(choose one):         level
 [ ] Linkedto Disbursement
Conversion options: [XICurrency     [XIInterest Rate   [X]Caps/Collars: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds


BORROWER                                                         6.40            0.00    I   6.40
IBRD                                                           12.20             2.80        15.00
Total:                                                         18.60             2.80       21.40

Borrower: DEPARTAMENTO DECUNDINAMARCA
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: SECRETARLA DEEDUCACIONDELDEPARTAMENTO DE
CUNDINAMARCA
Address: Calle26 No. 47-73 Piso4
Contact Person: PiedadCaballero
Tel: 5714260309                Fax: 571426 1616                  Email: Piecab@colomsat.net.co
pcaballerop@cundinamarca.gov.co

Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
   FY     I  2004  I  2005     1  2006  I  2007  I 2008  I
   Annual    2.20       4.10      4.50      3.20    1.oo
Cumulative   2.20       6.30      10.80     14.00  15.00




                                      - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective


1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

Project Purpose: The purpose o f the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project i s to assist the
Government o f the Department o f Cundinamarca to develop the skills inbasic and secondary school students
that will improve their productivity, competitiveness and overall social skills.

The development objectives o f the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project are to: (i)        improve
the quality and relevance o f the education system and (ii)improve the internal and external efficiency of
educationat the department level, municipal and school levels.

The project would contribute to current policies and strategies o f the Department o f Cundinamarca by
focusing support on the poor through targeting both the poorest municipalities in the Department and those
schools with the poorest achievement levels as measured by standardized test results. The project will
support enhanced quality and equity by: (i) targeting interventions to disadvantaged schools inrural and peri-
urban areas and to students at high risk; (ii) complementing the goal o f increased coverage as stated in the
Departmental Development Plan 2001 - 2004; (iii)     reinforcing the participation o f key stakeholders by adding
relevance to the educational content (process and management o f schools); and (vi) upgrading the skills and
competencies o f both dropouts and graduates to facilitate their entry into the labor market.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The following key performance indicators will be used to measure the project outcomehmpact in meeting
development objectives:




A complete set o findicators for monitoring, process and impact evaluationwill be specifiedinthe Evaluation
and Monitoring Manual.




                                                - 3 -

B. Strategic Context


1.Sector-relatedCountryAssistance Strategy(CAS) goalsupportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber:25129-CO Date of latest CAS discussion:January 16,2003
The CAS recognizes that the long-standing armed conflict and violence driven by common criminal activities,
especially drug-related, are the most important issues facing Colombia as a nation. Stable economic growth
rates in Colombia have historically been instrumental to reducing poverty and increasing public resources for
social spending. However, duringthe second half o f the 1 9 9 0 ~Colombia entered a severe economic crisis,
                                                                      ~
erasing over a decade o f progress inpoverty reduction, and undermining Colombia's ambitious social agenda.
While economic prosperity alone will not be sufficient to stop the violence, increased poverty could further
inflame the situation. With this in mind, the objectives o f the Bank's Colombia Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) approved by the Board on January 16, 2003 had the following objectives: (i)        meeting the targets for
the Millennium Development Goals; (ii)       achieving fast and sustainable growth; (iii)
                                                                                        sharing growth with all
Colombians; and (iv) building efficient, accountable and transparent governance. The objectives o f the
proposed project are consistent with those o f the CAS and would facilitate their achievement by enhancing
equity in education quality, relevance and sector efficiency within an environment characterized by the need
to support the process o f decentralization, increase economic competitiveness and growth, reduce poverty and
ease internal conflict and violence.

Regarding the Programmatic Labor and Social Adjustment Loans under preparation, the Cundinamarca
Education Quality Improvement project will contribute to the implementation of stated education policy
actions by supporting the application o f the regulatory framework introduced by L a w 715, especially those
aspects related to the development o f an information system, assessment o f student and teacher performance,
and participation o f the private sector in the educational process. Furthermore, consistent with the mentioned
Programmatic Labor and Social Adjustment Loans under preparation, the project will contribute to improving
the efficiency o f the education system at the department level by providing technical assistance to
municipalities and schools to improve their internal and external efficiency.

The combined effect from the successful implementation o fprojects inAntioquia and Pasto, together with the
new project to be launched by Cundinamarca, with Bank support, and the recent decision to put Law 715 into
effect with its strong incentive scheme, can be expected to increase the interest o f other departments and
municipalities in implementing needed reforms to increase quality and efficiency in education. The National
Ministry o f Education will need to review how it might support such reforms.               Differing levels of
commitment, capacity and ability to borrow will likely characterize the expected demand. Discussions are
now underway with the Ministry to design an appropriate response that might include a menu approach with
tailored instruments. It i s likely that the Bank would be asked for support and it has already been agreed in
the CAS to include a project for DecentralizedEducation in the lending program. The Rural Education APL
would also need to be integrated into the strategy. Depending upon the type and level o f demand, partnership
with the IDB would need to be explored in collaboration with the Ministry o f Finance, Education and the
National PlanningDepartment.




                                                 - 4 -

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:

National Context

The present national administration i s giving special emphasis to social programs, as reflected in the National
Development Plan (Hacia un Estado Comunitario) and the National Education Plan (Revolucidn Educativa).
The National Development Plan includes six broad programs: (i)Evaluation designed to improve the quality
o f students, teachers and institutions; (ii)
                                           Learning from best practices; (iii)  Developing educational models to
improve educational relevance; (iv) Expanding and improving the use o f media and new technologies in
education; (v) Strengthening capacity o f the Department and Municipal education administration; and (vi)
Developing a Management Information System. The latter two programs are designed to support
decentralization and institutional strengthening.    L a Revolucidn Educativa emphasizes social development
and economic competitiveness and further defines the national strategy to improve access to and quality o f
education and increase the internal and external efficiency o f the education system by (i)transferring
management responsibilities o f the sector to the departments and the municipalities; and (ii)   strengthening the
capacity o f the sector to operate ina decentralized environment. It i s anticipated that decentralizing education
will help in addressing issues o f access, quality, equity, efficiency and accountabilityby transferringdecision-
making to the local level where local and regional needs are better known and can be more effectively
addressed. Local management o f education has been shown to enhance resource mobilization, cost sharing,
and community and parental involvement.

Recent studies have shown that Colombia lags behindits competitors inboth education coverage and learning
achievement [Closing the Gap in Education and Technology. 2002. World Bank]. However, an increase in
public spending to improve education i s neither feasible nor desirable. Public sector spending on education
over the last three decades has quadrupled in real terms while the school age populationgrew by less than one
third. Currently, education spending as a percentage o f GDP is 4.4 percent (Ministry o f Education, 2002)
which i s higher than the regional average o f 3.3 percent. Instead, to attain these objectives, the country needs
to improve its efficiency in the use o f education resources and reap the benefits o f decentralization by
supporting improved capacity at the local level, linking funding to students, and promoting accountability.
The Government o f Colombia (GOC) recognized this and passed Law 715 (2001) which seeks to strengthen
decentralization and efficiency by establishing a regulatory framework that would, among other
improvements, allocate educational transfers to territorial entities on the basis o f enrollment and allow public
education authorities to contract with the private sector to provide education services in a more cost-effective
manner.

To further strengthen the decentralization process the national government decided to support the provision o f
multilateral funds directly to local governments as a way to improve the efficiency o f investments supported
by international development organizations.         These pilot projects, designed and implemented by local
governments, were intended to provide lessons for a nationwide system.            A Municipality (Pasto) and a
Department (Antioquia) were selected to participate and the World Bank i s supporting these innovative
decentralized projects. Key criteria used for the selection o f the participating local governments included:
financial indebtedness capacity, regional and socio-economic representation, and political commitment.
Financial sustainability was also weighted heavily since the central Government sought to encourage fiscal
discipline at the local level.

General Characteristics of Cundinamarca

The population o f the Cundinamarca Department i s slightly over 2.2 million o f which 1.3 million live in
urban areas and 0.9 million live in rural areas. Of the 116 municipalities in Cundinamarca, only five have
populations over 100,000, three have populations between 50,000 and 100,000, twenty-eight have populations
between 14,000 and 50,000, forty-one have populations between 7,000 and 14,000, and thirty-nine

municipalities have populations o f under 7,000.         Municipalities with populations below 100,000
(approximately 96 percent o f all municipalities), have economies based primarily on farming and mining,
givingthe CundinamarcaDepartment a ruralprofile.

A recent national household survey revealed that 34 percent o f families in Cundinamarca live in poverty,
while 11 percent live in extreme poverty, compared to 67 percent and 26 percent o f families on average in
Colombia. In terms o f individuals, 26 percent (587,726 persons) o f the total population in Cundinamarca i s
living in poverty and 8 percent (178,098 persons) live in extreme poverty. Poverty is concentrated in rural
areas which accounts for roughly 43 percent o f the population. According to the national household survey,
between 1966 and 2000, unemployment in Cundinamarca rose from 69,840 persons to 186,840 persons,
representing 17 percent o f the active population. In 2000, o f the unemployed, 40 percent were between 12
and 24 years old and approximately 65 percent o f the unemployedhad completed secondary education.

The education sector in Cundinamarca i s made up o f 3,714 schools (69 percent rural and 3lpercent urban),
most o f which are public (82 percent). In 2002, 537,432 students between the ages o f five and 17 were
enrolled in public and private schools, 30 percent inrural areas and 70 percent in urban areas. Enrollment in
public school represents 76 percent o f total enrollment; as far as enrollment in different levels o f education,
pre-school enrollments account for 11 percent- including all ages; primary enrollment, 51 percent; lower
secondary, 29 percent; and upper secondary, 9 percent. The internal conflict in Colombia has had an impact
on education in Cundinamarca. Due to the violence, between 2000 and 2002, 3,980 families (approximately
17,738 persons) have been relocated to 15 municipalities; about half o f those were moved to the Municipality
o f Soacha, just outside Bogoth. While approximately 52 percent o f those relocated were o f school age, only
30 percent are enrolled in school. Those who have been displaced tend to be located on the periphery o f
medium sized cities where they have been severely marginalized and suffer from discrimination and social
exclusion. The economic and social vulnerability substantially affect their quality o f life limiting access to
health, education, housing, feeding and recreation services. Because o f these poor conditions the department
is developing a comprehensive strategy to address the specific social, economic and psychological difficulties
facing this population.

The Department o f Cundinamarca has been considered for this undertaking due to the following factors: (i)
the Governor and the educational authorities have demonstrated an unusual political will to carry out
profound changes to improve the education system in Cundinamarca. Infact, despite the economic crisis, the
Department's own resources allocated to education represent, on average, 10.73 percent o f the total budget;
(ii) NationalcommitmentwiththisprojectisstrongasevidencedbythefactthattheNationalCouncilof
    the
Economic and Social Policy has already passed a resolution (# 3174 issued July 15, 2002) authorizing the
Department o f Cundinamarca to borrow for the project; additionally, the Joint Committee o f the Congress,
which must approve all foreign loans, has also approved the project on November 12, 2002; (iii)               the
Department has elaborated a detailed Development Plan in which it underscores the importance of human
development; (iv) the Department's good indebtedness capacity, excellent fiscal situation and responsible
behavior in order to make significant contributions to the national product; and (vi) as a have been filly
recognized by the national Ministry o f Finance; (v) Cundinamarca recognizes that it must invest in human
development inorder to improve labor productivity and efficiency.

Main Education Sector Issues in Cundinamarca

The following main issues have set the context for project identification and preparation: (i) quality in
                                                                                                  low
terms of academic achievement (outcomes) and the learning environment (education inputs); (ii)poor
coverage at preschool and secondary school levels; (iii) inequities in the delivery o f educational services; (iv)
l o w internal and external efficiency; (v) weak management and governance capacity at the central, municipal
and school levels; (vi) limited participation of the productive sector and civil society in the educational



                                                 - 6 -

process; (vii) an inadequate assessment system to measure the quality o f education; (viii) lack o f a medium-
term education plan to operationalize the education strategy; and (ix) incomplete compliance with Law 715.

Low Quality

The results o f the National and Departmental achievement tests inmathematics and language show that while
students in Cundinamarca perform near the national level, absolute scores are still low, with students
achieving less than 55 percent o f the prescribed educational objectives in both disciplines. In language, 24
percent o f students in Cundinamarca achieved at the Superior level surpassing the national average o f 20
percent. Inmathematics, Cundinamarca is also performing better than the national average with 12 percent o f
its students scoring at the Superior level vs. 8 percent nationally.             However, performance declines
substantially in grade nine with only 2 percent o f students scoring at the Superior level in math. SABER
learning achievement test scores show that 5 percent o f students inCundinamarca achieve a superior rating on
these tests versus 6 percent nation-wide, and only 1 percent o f Cundinamarca schools reach the top level o f
achievement while 60 percent are at the lowest level o f test scores. Another indication are the results from the
ICFES test administered to 1lth grade graduates in which almost 7 percent o f students nationally achieve the
highest scores comparedto 5 percent in Cundinamarca.

The weak learning outcomes, particularly in rural and peri-urban areas, are attributed to several factors: (i) an
over-emphasis on rote learning and frontal teaching that relies heavily on memorization, passive learners and
individual-centered instruction rather than focusing on group learning and problem solving approaches; (ii)
the lack o f well trained teachers able to apply innovative methodologies in the classroom; (iii) lack o f
                                                                                                      the
clear learning objectives in the curriculum and the expected competencies to be achieved in each grade; (iv)
under-utilized libraries, most o f which have no internet access; (v) lack o f school networks as a source o f
collective learning and exchange; and (vi) insufficient quantity and quality o f education materials and
learning aids.

Poor Coverage in Secondary Education

Net enrolment in secondary education in Cundinamarca i s lower than the national average, 60 percent versus
66 percent (2002 data), and it is below regional and international levels o f 62 percent for LAC countries and
91 percent for OECD countries. Insufficient coverage in Cundinamarca i s more acute inrural areas where 27
percent o f children have access to secondary education compared to 84 percent inurban areas.

Inequitiesin the Delivery of Educational Services

Available data indicate significant socio-economic disparities interms o f (i)     academic achievement rates; (ii)
deployment o f educational resources; and (iii)average years o f schooling.          In rural Cundinamarca youth
between 5 and 17 years old make up 26 percent o f the total populationwhile enrollment inthese areas reaches
only 17 percent. L o w enrollment in rural areas leads to a net enrollment o f only 61 percent while in urban
areas o f the Department it reaches nearly 102 percent. The gap i s more severe in lower secondary education
where enrollment o f rural children i s 27 percent versus 85 percent o f children inurban areas. This reflects the
lack o f flexibility o f the education model in terms o f addressing the specific needs o f low-income students in
areas o f the Department where child labor i s an important economic necessity. Promotion rates in rural and
urban areas o f Cundinamarca also differ with rural promotion rates o f 78 percent compared to urban
promotion rates o f 83 percent.

In terms o f gender, although it is difficult to find reliable statistics, available information based on a recent
World Bank study indicates that since 1980 gender differences in educational attainment have decreased. In
general, males have lower enrollment rates and higher repetition and dropout rates than females inboth urban
and rural areas - a trend seen not only in Colombia but also in many countries in the region. Since the


                                                  - 7 -

beginning o f the economic crisis, rural enrollment rates for males have been increasing while those for
females have been decreasing probably due to the ease with which girls and women can find employment in
domestic and informal activities. Academically, females in rural areas are outperforming males and are
attaining an average o f 4.8 years o f schooling compared to 4.3 years for males. Inurban areas, males receive
on average, 9.4 years o f schooling versus 8.9 years for females.

Low Internal and External efficiency

Promotion rates in public secondary education (lower and upper combined) in Cundinamarca are good: 83
percent in urban areas and 78 percent in rural areas combined with low drop-out rates o f 6 percent and 10
percent in urban and rural areas, respectively. Repetition rates are higher than the national average at most
levels o f education with the exception o f primary education where repetition i s 7 percent both in
Cundinamarca and at the national level. However, in lower secondary the repetition rate, on average, i s 7
percent in Cundinamarca verses the national average o f five percent, and it i s 4 percent in upper secondary
versus the national average o f just 3 percent. It i s also estimated that 8 percent o f primary school students
drop out before reaching the end o f the cycle compared to the national level o f 7 percent; a relatively high
proportion o f students, 24 percent, are overage. In addition, there are large disparities in learning outcomes
between urban and rural areas as well as among different socio-economic groups. As a result, many young
people in the 15-24 age bracket lack the proper education and skills necessary to enter the labor market. A
recent survey revealed that only 33 percent o f youth in the 15-24 age group are studying full time while
approximately 36 percent o f the 15-24 age group are out o f school and unemployed.             This situation is
particularly severe in rural areas.

Weak Management and Governance at the Departmental, municipal and school levels

At the Departmentallevel the SEC lacks the institutional capacity to implement efficiency, quality and equity
improvements consistent with the national and departmental education policies and strategies and thus i s
unable to strengthen the decentralization process. Such weakness leads to deficiencies in:
0      Planning, implementing and evaluating mechanisms which can lead to continual improvements in
       education quality;
0      Defining strategies to implement proposed plans and the development o f instruments to monitor and
       evaluate progress;
0      Technical expertise and staff able to assist municipalities and schools in key areas such as drafting
       development goals and strategies;
0      Specifications o f administrative procedures that relate the department with municipalities, which are not
       regularly monitoredto check for bottlenecks and are not efficiently communicated; and
0      Managing the collection, selection, and analysis o f information.

At the municipal level, the concept o f educational management is new to most municipalities since prior to
decentralization they did not have responsibility for or authority over schools, teachers or curricula. Most
municipalities have just begun to collect, classify and use information about schools and teachers, and only a
few o f them have defined their own development goals or performance indicators. Inaddition, Municipalities
need to begin to envision ways to effectively bridge schools with departmental plans and policies and to share
with schools the responsibility indefiningrelevant curricula for their unique conditions and requirements.

Most schools have been working on their PEI (Institutional Plan) and have formally organized a school
government as mandated by Law 715. However, most lack (i)          the knowledge and the instruments to review
the implementation o f the PEI; (ii)  the leadership to integrate the community and the productive sector into
school government; (iii)   a clearly defined pedagogical model; and (iv) the experience in financial planning
and administration. In general, school principals and administrators are not prepared to carry out the new



                                                - 8 -

responsibilities assigned by law 715        -  applying efficient school management practices, implementing
innovative pedagogical methods, and utilizing participatory and supervisory management models. Special
attention needs to be paid to the organizational implications o f Law 715 that prescribes the merging o f
schools (preschool, primary and secondary levels) to guarantee a smooth progression o f students and a more
rational use o f resources insparsely populated regions.

Limited Participation of the Productive Sectors and the Civil Society in the Education Process

Ingeneral, schools are working in isolation from the surrounding community unaware o f societal and labor
market needs. In most cases the community (parents, community leaders, etc.) and the productive sector
(farmers, cooperatives, industry) do not participate in defining the development goals for the institution or in
defining the strategies to achieve them. The contribution o f these two sectors i s limitedto assistance in social
events such as school anniversaries and community fairs. However, some secondary schools are reaching out
to their communities by organizing student social services.

Interms o f educational content, there is the perceptionboth inthe productive sector and in the community,
that the education being offered lacks relevance. Employers prefer general secondary educationbecause they
find graduates often lackthe skills needed for employment such as basic reading, writing, communication and
mathematical skills as well as personal skills such as assuming responsibility, making decisions and honesty.
Parents voice a preference for diversified high schools where they assume their children will learn labor
market specific skills, unaware that most diversified secondary schools train students on obsolete equipment
and infrastructure. As a result, students leave schools without the relevant skills and abilities to find
employment or start an enterprise. These factors contribute to a growing population o f youth who are neither
inschool nor employed.

Inadequate Monitoring and Evaluation

The current system i s oriented towards the assessment o f individual student skills and competencies and does
not provide information on the overall quality o f education and the determinants o f quality, such as school
and teacher characteristics, that could be used by policymakers to develop guidelines aimed at improving
educational outcomes. In addition, there i s a need for timely and reliable data on: (i)school enrollment,
dropout rates, repetition rates and completion rates; (ii)the distribution and the characteristics o f school
facilities; and (iii)the available furniture, equipment and learning materials in schools. The scope o f these
problems are magnified because the Secretariat o f Education lacks a systematic and well organized method o f
collecting, processing, analyzing and disseminating data.

Lack of a Medium-term Education Planto operationalize current policies

Education i s one o f the three priorities cited inthe Cundinamarca Development Plan 2001- 2004. However,
this plan describes only a general vision for the sector and an overall education strategy; it lacks the specific
policies, targets, and actions neededto achieve the stated objectives. This contributes to the absence o f a long-
range plan making it difficult for policy makers to take proper decisions inthe sector.

Incomplete decentralization

After the passage o f Law 715, modifying the regulatory framework o f education in Colombia (Law 115 of
1994 and Decree 2279 o f 1979), the Department carried out a detailed study to assess the implications o f
supporting decentralization. Several of the new regulations are directly relevant to the proposed project,
representing special challenges that needto be addressed. For example, budget resources transferred from the
national government will be allocated on a per-student basis rather than the historical model o f transfers based
on teachers' costs. This new system requires the design and development o f an information system and the


                                                  - 9 -

training o f school managers in order to ensure accurate and timely information. Additionally, the new law
gives school principals greater responsibility for the overall management o f their schools while the
Department i s required to provide technical assistance to ensure quality and efficiency standards are met.
Therefore, the Department needs to prepare a technical assistance strategy which will strengthen the
relationship between the Department and the municipalities and which includes a monitoring and evaluation
system and an information system that will expedite the administrative and legal procedures required under
the Law.

Government strategy of the Cundinamarca Department

Faced with these major constraints, the Cundinamarca Department has decided to concentrate its education
development efforts on: (i)    improving the quality, relevance and coverage o f the education system with a
focus on preschools and upper secondary schools;         (ii)supporting decentralization; (iii)improving school
management; (iv) increasing the participation o f the productive sectors and civil society in schools; (v)
reducing inequities inthe delivery o f educational services; (vi) improving quality measurements o f education,
especially student attainment; and (vii) reducingthe number o f out o f school, unemployed youths.

Improving Quality and Relevance

In terms o f quality and relevance, the emphasis will be on providing students with a balanced mix o f basic
skills (reading, writing and mathematics), developmental skills linked to labor market needs (capacity to
visualize, to think, to reason, to know how to learn, to make decisions, to plan and to solve problems), and
personal slulls (ethics, self-esteem, self-control, responsibility, sociability and honesty). The Cundinamarca
Department intends to improve education by focusing on the educational institutions through improvements
in the administrative, financial and management practices o f individual school management teams and by
improving the quality and relevance o f the learning process through continuous and comprehensive
interventions with respect to the classroom pedagogical process and educational inputs such as: implementing
an aggressive professional development program for teachers focusing on innovative methodologies; using
new information and communication technologies in the classroom including installing one science and
technology classroom in each municipality; diversifying the curricula to offer new educational opportunities
such as promoting cultural identity and stimulating creativity and inquiry as a source o f knowledge; providing
training opportunities in productive activities to facilitate employment; offering comprehensive education to
children, youth, women and families including recreational activities, ethics, and environmental protection.

Increase Coverage

With respect to access, the Cundinamarca Department has already undertaken several initiatives to
successfully address the issue o f poor coverage: (i) Reorganizingthe sector to increase the teaching load from
six to eight hours creating the equivalent o f 5,720 new places and increasing the teacher: student ratio by 0.5
percent at each grade level creating an additional 12,140 places in each geographical region; (ii)Providing
direct subsidies to 4,000 students, using mining income, to cover education associated costs; and (iii)
Providing transportation for 37,734 students and contracting with NGOs to improve the delivery o f education
to 6,104 students. Given other ongoing activities, access i s not a major thrust in this project. However, the
project will contribute to improving access to upper secondary education through improving retention and
reducing repetition.    Indeed, the project will impact upper secondary education (up to 11 grade) as well as
basic and lower secondary education since all three education levels are integrated within the same unified
institution and managed by the same principal regardless o f the physical location.




                                                - 10-

Supporting Decentralization

The Government's commitment to decentralization i s articulated in Law 715; the Cundinamarca
Department's strategy i s to enact the Law through implementing the new territorial competencies,
reorganizing schools, introducing student based financing, professionalizing the teaching profession and
increasing the internal and external efficiency o f the education system. L a w 715, articles 11, 12 and 13 will
govern the flow and management o f funds received.

Improving School Management

This will be achieved through the enforcement o f articles 12 and 13 of Law 715 which govern the
management o f funds and provide principals and pedagogical directors with the management tools and
practices to diagnose school performance, identify problems, and elaborate participatory plans to solve them.

Increasing the Participation of the Productive Sector and Society in Schools

This will be achieved through developing projects in partnership with the productive sectors, integrating
schools into regional and local economic development plans, and providing educational opportunities through
community colleges closely linkedto industry.

Reducing inequities in the delivery of education services

Inequities will be reduced by providing better educational inputs in socially and economically deprived areas,
creating continuing education opportunities for dropouts and graduates living in low income areas, and
promoting the use o f free time for extra curricular activities.

Improvingmeasurements of student attainment

Achieved by expanding the student quality assessment system to include measures o f school and teacher
performance and improving education statistics and performance indicators.

Reduce the number of children out of school

Reduce the number o f children out o f school and unemployed youths by providing fellowships to secondary
education.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The proposed project will focus on the following key issues among those identified above: (i) quality  poor
basic and secondary education; (ii)     weak managerial and governance capacity at the central, municipal and
school levels; (iii)inequities in the delivery o f educational services; (iv) limited participation o f the
productive sectors and civil society in the educational process; (v) inadequate monitoring and evaluation
system; (vi) lack o f a medium term education plan; and (vii) supporting decentralization. Improving the
"leadership skills" o f principals will be at the core o f the interventions for improving quality and consequently
student achievement; this strategy i s consistent with Law 715 that provides exceptional power to principals.
The effort to enhance managerial skills will be linked to the training o f teachers in their own work
environment, where through reflection and action methodologies teachers will have the opportunity to work
with colleagues reflecting on their own daily practices thereby effectively introducing "new teaching
practices".  "New teaching practices" are those that improve learning by motivating children and building
knowledge based on their own experiences in the framework o f logical thinking and problem solving. This
methodology has been proved to be very effective and has been adopted in several LAC countries such as


                                                  - 11-

Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Colombia as part o f their national teacher training policy and strategy and has
clear advantages over traditional methodologies

Additionally the project will support the Department's strategy of increasing access to schooling by offering
flexible pedagogical models tailored to the educational and socio-economic needs o fthe communities, such as
Escuela Nueva, SAT, CAFAM, Telesecundavia, Acelevacidn del Aprendizaje and Pvoyectos Pedagdgicos
Productivos.

Finally, in terms of Institutional Strengthening, both this project and the IDB project (a nation-wide project
and the only one with IDB in the education sector in Colombia under the aegis o f MEN) are complementary.
The IDB project plans to support actions that seek to improve planning, financing, human resource
development, administration, evaluation and communication process and practices at the department level in
selected municipalities while this project will focus on the improvement o f financial, administrative and
management practices o f the schools' management teams.

The decision to focus on these issues reflects some strategic choices in terms o f urgency, equity and scope.
To identify these priorities in collaboration with the Cundinamarca authorities, the following factors were
taken into consideration: implementation capacity of the Education Secretariat, the need for a gradual process
to improve the Cundinamarca education system, the availability o f financial resources, the complementarity
with the existing government program and lessons learned from other decentralized educational projects both
in Colombia and inother countries inthe region.

Consistent with the strategy o f confronting inequities in the delivery o f educational services, the project will
target interventions in about 50 municipalities classified and ranked according to socioeconomic indicators,
education indicators and specific institutional criteria. A targeting study prepared by UniversidadExtevnado
de Colombiai s available inthe project files.




                                               - 12-

Poor quality inbasic and secondary education (low . Participation o f all education actors in defining and articulating the
academic achievement and inadequate learning     framework o f the Institutional Education Projects as well as in the
environment)                                     identification    and implementation o f joint         schoolicommunity
                                                 programs which support Education for Peace activities (pedagogical,
                                                 innovations, change in student-teacher relationship, emphasis on
                                                 values in curriculum, etc.) aimed at mitigating the incidence o f
                                                 violence and conflicts.
                                                  . Professional development o f management teams and teachers that
                                                 include training inthe use o f active and cooperative learning methods
                                                 focused on the achievement o f student competencies.
                                                  . Providing technical assistance for identifying appropriate
                                                 managerial, administrative, financial and pedagogical practices;
                                                 provide technical support for establishing and monitoring processes
                                                 o f reflection- actions such as, training in specific areas, exchange of
                                                 experiences among groups o f teachers, establishing management
                                                 teams and teacher networks, and developing incentive based, non-
                                                 pecuniary training opportunities, Le. publications, WEB based
                                                 training etc.
                                                  . Didactic materials selected by teachers to facilitate the learning
                                                 process and the application o f innovative methodologies.
                                                  . At the school level, instead of using predefined interventions that
                                                 are unrelated to the needs o f schools, the project would support the
                                                 development o f sub projects that are specific to the needs and
                                                  capacities o f individual schools focusing o n the availability and use
                                                 o f learning materials and improving instructional resource areas
                                                 (computer labs and libraries). With respect to the SEC, technical
                                                 assistance    would be provided to           develop   a  comprehensive
                                                 instructional resources strategy and to disseminate good practices.
                                                  . Helping teachers "discover" more effective pedagogical practices
                                                 through (i)   participating in discussions in formal workshops; (ii)
                                                  observing best practices; (iii)   receiving TA; and (iv) carrying out
                                                 periodic and independent evaluation.

Ueak managerial and governance capacity at the . Use o f a participatory approach to design and implement a
Sector issues to be addressed by the project

:entral, municipal and school level                     reorganization plan for SEC. This would include identifying required
                                                        changes in accordance with the legal regulations and disseminating
                                                        the proposed changes to SEC officials and other authorities;
                                                        . Identification o f appropriate methodologies and instruments to (i)
                                                        improve the management o f municipal education; (ii) education
                                                                                                                   train
                                                        management councils; (iii)     evaluate management and administrative
                                                        practices inthe targeted municipalities; and (iv) consolidate municipal
                                                        strengtheningplans.
                                                        . Upgrade the skills, capacities and ab       es o f principals to improve
                                                        internal and external efficiency and the quality o f education services
                                                        through specific workshops, cross fertilization activities, case study
                                                        analyses and fellowships instead o f providing classical, theoretical
                                                        management courses.
                                                        . Provide non-pecuniary, incentive-based development opportunities
                                                        such as technical support, specific training interventions, forums for
                                                        the exchange o f relevant experiences among schools and principals,
                                                        and communicatiodinformationnetworks.
                                                         . Train teachers to develop and formulate class projects respecting
                                                        students' expectations and needs.
[nequitiesinthe delivery o f education services          . Provide targeted quality, education improvement interventions in
                                                        deprived rural and urban areas.
i m i t e d participation o f the productive sectors and . Using a demand driven approach to strengthen partnerships and
:ivil society inthe educationprocess                    create Partnerships by: (i)setting criteria for articulation among
                                                        several    permanent      education    alternatives,   employability   and
                                                        sustainability; (ii)selecting the best proposals to be financed under the
                                                        competitive subproject subcomponent and (iii)promoting efforts at
                                                        the municipal level with the private sector.
                                                         . Design a comprehensive approach for capacity building, networking
                                                        activities, and the monitoring and evaluation o f administrative and
                                                        financial activities o f Partnerships forged with the productive sector.
hadequate assessment and monitoring system               . This would include developing a Department model with specific
                                                        measurements o f (i)    direct and indirect factors related to educational
                                                        results, (ii)inputs and processes in the schools, and (iii)   performance
                                                        o f management teams, principals, teachers and students.
                                                         . Development and application o f a Management Information System
                                                         (MIS) which incorporates (i)new            modules for enrolment and
                                                        reporting, (ii) on the management and administration of schools.
                                                                       data
                                                         and (iii)articulation with other statistics in the framework o f the
                                                        Departmental MIS.
Lack o f a medium term education plan                    . Develop a comprehensive and participatory plan outlining the
                                                         expected: (i)qualitative and quantitative education targets and results
                                                         (ii)allocation o f education inputs; and (iii)  improvements in internal
                                                         and external efficiency.
[ncomplete decentralization                              . T o enhance decision making authority at the school level and tc
                                                         ensure    greater    accountability    for   performance.     Develop   i
                                                         comprenhensive municipal and school empowerment approach whick
                                                          combines capacity building and professionalization o f technical an<
                                                          administrative staff, school principals and school supervisors.




                                                      - 14-

C. Project Description Summary

1. Project components (seeAnnex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):

The Project includes the following three components (i)      Improving School Management; (ii)Institutional
Strengthening; and (iii)  Project Administration andMonitoring

Component 1. Improving School Management to Enhance Quality and Relevance (US$16.5 million,
78% o f total amount). The first component would support changes to school management and practices in
accordance with new legislation and department development plans that seek quality and relevance
improvements as well as the identification and implementation o f school-community activities to support
education for peace projects designed to mitigate the incidence o f violence and conflicts. This component will
provide technical assistance for the preparation and implementation o f each school's Improvement Plan (PEI).
The PEI will be the basis for Municipal School Subprojects that will finance the activities undertaken by the
schools under this component, such as training, technical assistance, maintenance, and investment.            In
addition to the TA to be selected in agreement with the schools, the project will finance: (i)"cross
fertilization" activities such us study tours, fellowships, internships, etc; (ii)documentation, dissemination
and discussion o f case studies and best practices; and (iii)training in specific management, pedagogical,
technical, financial and administrative matters.

The component consists o f the following five sub-components: (i)    improving the administrative, financial and
management practices o f participating school management teams; (ii)      improving pedagogical practices; (iii)
providing adequate instructional resources; and (iv) establishing strategic partnerships between the schools,
the productive sectors and civil society; (v) financing o f Municipal School Subprojects. All o f the sub-
components will be incorporated into the Improvement Plans (PEI) designed by the schools (with the support
o f TA) and each will seek to promote a comprehensive approach to the appropriate use o f human, financial
and physical resources as well as the formation o f partnerships. Ultimately, the PEIs will impact all levels o f
education - from preschool to upper secondary education      - because the Colombian education system i s an
integrated and sequential structure with all grades located in a single facility under the responsibility o f a
single principal. In summary, this component will finance: (i)    the preparation and implementation o f the PEI
in the form o f a school sub-project for improving managerial skills and teacher training and for providing
resources and materials to improve the managerial and pedagogical practices at the 900 schools covered by
the 50 targeted municipalities; and (ii) approximately 75 demand driven partnership sub-projects to be
                                           the
selected by a competitive process that i s outlined in the OperationalManual.

Component 2. Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External Efficiency (US$3.64
million, 17% o f total amount). This component would strengthen the institutional and management capacity
o f the Cundinamarca Education Secretariat and the municipalities. The objective of this component i s to
improve the overall efficiency o f the Cundinamarca education system.          The component consists o f the
following two sub-components: (i)Strengthening Department and Municipal education management; and (ii)
Designing and implementing a Quality Evaluation System at the Departmental level.

The first sub-component, Strengthening Department and Municipal education management, will be achieved
through: (i)developing an evaluation system which would allow the SEC to define education policies and
improvement plans, ensure that education meets social demands, and facilitate and improve education
decision-making processes across the sector; (ii)   designing and implementing a 10-Year Education Plan and
strengthening decentralization law. The second sub-component, Strengthening the Administrative Capacities
o f the Municipalities will be achieved through: (i)providing technical assistance to municipalities to
strengthen their administrative capacities and to improve the quality, efficiency and equality o f the education



                                                - 15 -

provided through identifying methodologies and instruments used for improving municipal education
management; (ii)   training o f education management authorities and councils; (iii)
                                                                                   evaluation o f management
and administrative practices in the targeted municipalities and         (iv) designing, consolidating and
implementingmunicipal strengthening plans (PEM).

Component 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.14 million, 5% o f total amount):
This component would finance the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) operating within the Education
Secretariat of Cundinamarca. The PCU would be responsible for overall project coordination working closely
with the line departments within the SEC which in turn will have the responsibility for implementing the
project components The PCU will be responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluating the project.
Specifically, the PCU will: (i)develop the administrative and technical procedures to assure quality
improvements of education through the administrative, financial and pedagogical management o f the schools
and the decentralized operation o f the education system; and (ii)  be directly responsible for the technical
aspects o f the competitive sub-projects.

The PCU would also have responsibility for (i)planning and programming, (ii)monitoring project
implementation, including disbursements and collection o f expenditure documentation, (iii)        carrying out the
procurement o f goods and services financed by the project (Loan and counterpart funds), (iv) coordinating
technical activities o f the project with the national Ministry of Education, the selected municipalities in
Cundinamarca and the partners in the productive sectors and civil society, and (v) communicating with the
Bank.

                                                             Indicative                                     Yo of
                         Component                          I  Costs*   I   %of    I
                                                                                    1fi:::J&               Bank-
                                                                                                       ~

                                                               (US$M)       Total            (US$M)      financing
  1. Improving School Management to enhance Quality               16.50     76.8              11.55            77.0
  and Relevance
  2. Institutional Strengthening to improve Internal and           3.64      16.9              2.55            17.0
                                                                           ~                           ~


  External Efficiency
  3. Administration indMonitoring                                  1.11      5.3               0.75             5.O
                                         Total Project Costs     21.25      99.1              14.85            99.0
                                              Front-end fee        0.15      0.9               0.15             1.o
                                Total FinancingRequired          21.40      100.0             15.00          100.0


2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:

The proposed project supports the national and departmental governments' education reforms along four
important dimensions.

Strengthening decentralization: the project seeks to reinforce the ongoing decentralizationprocess, inwhich
the national government relies on the departments, municipalities and communities to carry out its education
reform strategy o f extending coverage and improving quality.

School focused initiatives: in order to raise the quality o f learning in the classroom, the project focuses
interventions on education institutions combining pedagogical interventions with activities to improve the
financial, administrative and pedagogical management o f the schools consistent with the main objective o f
law 715 and recommendations of the Bank's Quality Enhancement Review.




                                               - 16-

Relevance: the project attempts to develop appropriate methodological aptitudes and skills that will better
prepare youths to participate productively in a changing economy within the context o f a lifelong learning
framework.

Links to the environment: the project supports the establishment o f stronger linkages between the school and
its environment.    In order to strengthen the relevance o f the interventions, the project will favor the
participation o f the productive sectors and civil society to capitalize on the contributions o f all sectors
concerned and achieve synergies.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:

The project would benefit approximately: (i) 215,000 children between the ages o f 5 and 17 inrural and peri-
urban areas who will receive a better education; (ii)  9,000 teachers who will be better prepared to provide
good quality education in rural and peri-urban areas;     (iii) rural and 119urban directors and 1,465
                                                                 56
members o f school management teams and school councils who will receive training to improve the
management, quality, effectiveness and efficiency o f schools; (iv) 6,000 students in 180 education institutions
working in the Alliance framework with 72 economic and social actors; and (v) 50 targeted municipalities
that have developed Educational Plans (PEM) oriented to improve the quality, relevance and equity in
education. Special attention will be given to displaced children. Cundinamarca i s among the departments in
Colombia that have receivedthe largest number o f displaced people, which has created additional demands on
social services ingeneral and education inparticular.

Additionally, the project will: (i)improve the capacity o f the SEC, along with i s regional branches,
municipalities and schools to manage, evaluate and monitor the Cundinamarca education system; (ii)      provide
a long-term framework for education planning as the SEC i s implementing its ten year education plan
(Education Plan, 2003-2012); and (iii) the system more responsive to economic, social development
                                        make
and labor market needs.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:

Project coordination and implementation arrangements
The Secretariat o f Education (SEC) would implement the project.         A Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
already established under the SEC will be responsible for overall project coordination, management, and
implementation. The PCU will include the staff necessary to carry out the coordination, procurement,
financial management, accounting, and the monitoring and evaluation o f the project. Financial Management
and Procurement specialists have conducted assessments and both considered the respective arrangements to
be acceptable. The training o f procurement specialists will assist the SEC in establishing a procurement unit
to manage all funds.

Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation
The project preparationteam drafted a Project Operational Manual (OM) which was reviewed during project
appraisal. The OM will provide full information concerning the general implementation and organizational
arrangements o f the proposed project and include a detailed implementation schedule, annual input, process
and output targets, and a detailed procurement plan. The project components will be executed technically by
the respective SEC units with oversight by the PCU. Implementation o f the project will be guided by the
OM, the FinancialManagement manual and a detailed procurementplan.

Accounting, Jinancial reporting and auditing requirements
The usual accounting, financial, auditing and reporting procedures that Colombia has established for
investment projects will be adopted for the proposed project, in line with Bank procedures and regulations.
The PCU will be responsible for the financial management o f the project including accounting, timely


                                              - 17-

submission of Financial Management reports (FMRs), annual audits and disbursements).             To facilitate
disbursements a Special Account will be established and managed according to Bank guidelines as prescribed
in the Disbursement Handbook.        An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank will audit the project
annually. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end o f each fiscal
year.

Additionally this project will be coordinated with the ongoing Institutional StrengtheningProject o f the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the Bank's own Rural Development Project which promotes
partnerships between municipalities and the productive sectors in several Departments, including
Cundinamarca.

The Bank will conduct project supervision missions every six months, and the Government will prepare
progress reports for each visit. There will be a Mid-Term Review mission, which will assess project
implementation and adjust project timeline and thresholds to guarantee completion o f development objectives
by project completion.

D. Project Rationale

1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection:

The project i s filly consistent with the Department's educational policy as stated in official documents and
confirmed during the pre-evaluation mission.       The Departmental Development Plan 2001-2004 clearly
emphasizes that an integrated strategy linkingthe development o f human capital, increases inproductivity and
competitiveness, and technological development i s key to improving education. Upgrading Cundinamarca`s
human capital to increase productivity and competitiveness in the context o f enhancing the development and
adoption o f new technologies requires high quality basic and secondary education (See Closing the Gap in
Education and Technology, World Bank, Sep. 2002). Furthermore, Cundinamarca i s addressing the coverage
issue in preschool, basic, and secondary education through various programs already in place (See section on
Government o f Cundinamarca Strategy). Access to higher education i s also being addressed by a new World
Bank-supported project Higher Education: Improving Access. Therefore it was decided to approach this
project as a multilevel investment focused on quality improvement in preschool, basic and secondary
education articulated with the establishment o f a competency and skills-based curriculum and measures to
improve system decentralization, school management, partnerships with enterprises and civil society groups,
and the systematic evaluation o f educational outcomes.




                                              - 1 8 -

 Alternatives considered                            Reasons for rejection
IConcentrateeducation
               interventions on technical           In the knowledge economy, labor market requirements have
 secondary                                          more to do with general skills and competencies for lifelong
                                                    learning than with specific technical skills.    Additionally,
                                                    increased relevance o f the curricula will not be obtained by
                                                    changing the basic content but rather through partnerships
                                                    with economic and social actors.
 Provide large scale traditional pre service and    Experience indicates that large scale expansions o f traditional
 in-service teacher training                        academic courses do not produce the desired results. It was
                                                    decided to concentrate efforts on improving the pedagogical
                                                    and methodological management o f the schools which
                                                    directly impact classroom practices.
 Support institutional strengthening only at the    Cundinamarca's Education Secretariat has low institutional
 Department level                                   capacity   and i s   not well organized to        support the
                                                    municipalities and schools to assume their responsibilities
                                                    under the new decentralization law. The main problem i s the
                                                    incomplete implementation o f and management o f the
                                                    decentralization process.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).

                                                                                   Latest Supervision
                                                                                     (PSR) Ratings
I Bank-financed                             I                                 Y)
                                                                               Bank-financed pro'ectson1
                                                                              Implementation   Development
                                                                               Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
 Access to and quality o fprimary and        Antioquia Education                    S                S
 secondary education, and strengthening
 o f decentralization
 Access to and quality o fprimary and        Pasto Education                        S                S
 secondary education, and strengthening
 o f decentralization
 Provision o f services to under-privileged Youth Development                       S                S
 young people
 Access to and quality o frural education Rural Education                           U                S
 Provision o f demand-side subsidies         Human Capital Protection               S                S
                                                                                    S                S
 Provision o f basic services in conflict    Magdalena Medio Regional               S              H S
 affected area                               Development
 Improve access through student loans.       Higher Education Improving
                                             Access
 Improve efficiency indelivery o f social    Social and Labor Adjustment
 services                                    (SECAL Iand 11)
 Other development agencies
 Financedby IADB
 Institutional Strengthening of Education Reform of Education
 System                                      Management




                                                - 19-

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:

The following key lessons based on international experience and findings from ICRs and impact studies o f
recent education projects in Colombia, as well as observations made from the supervision o f ongoing projects
at the national and decentralized levels, have been considered inthe project design:

Focus on schools as the center of change. Setting the schools and the classrooms as the reference point for
student development and learning creates demand for quality education and enhances accountability.            To
focus teacher training and student projects at the school level, the proposed project incorporates lessons
learned from N e w Zealand "School Based Management" and its autonomous Board o f Trustees, the Minas
Gerias school-driven "Proqualidade" Project in Brazil, the South Australia "Partnership 21" model o f local
management whereby parents, teachers and communities work together to make sure that children succeed
and the Uganda Teacher Development Management System which offers direct outreach support to teachers
and school administrators through a decentralized network o f coordinating centers. The proposed project
focuses on change at the school level, thereby buildingon the success o f two on-going innovative projects in
Pasto and Antioquia, which have achieved gains in quality by bringing together teachers, school managers
and community leaders to create innovative projects focused on local pedagogical issues.

Intersectoral Linkages. Because they span sectors and must be carried out at many different sites throughout
the community, education projects like this one require close cooperation between the schools and the
economic and productive sectors. This project will bring together a diverse group o f representatives from the
schools, the communities and the economic and productive sectors through the Partnerships sub-component
(1.4) which will promote strategic partnerships between the schools and the productive sectors in order to
promote improved quality and relevance o f the education offered and better link schools and their graduates
to the labor market.

Effective Teacher Training. The practice o f sending teachers to university courses on pedagogy and
methodology has not yielded great success in classroom effectiveness. Best results have been identified in
those teacher training programs, such as in the regional model centers, that consist o f observation, reflection,
and hands-on practice. These programs are frequently accompanied with strong follow up and feed-back on
practice.

Evaluation Culture and Mechanisms. Loosely controlled education investments have been replaced by
evaluation mechanisms with accountability implications. The Santiago-based OREALC "Education Quality
Laboratories" program has been pivotal in supporting evaluation agencies such as the System for the
Measurement o f Educational Quality in Chile and the Educational Outcomes Measurement Unity inUruguay.
The Indonesia PEQIP and the UNESCO 27 country MLA exemplify good learning evaluation practices. The
proposed project promotes tested evaluation and supervision strategies and builds on successful initiatives
established during earlier projects such as the Pasto and Antioquia Education Projects, as well as the Human
Capital Project in Colombia

The School Principal as a leader. The need for highly trained principals will become critical as the project
moves ahead and planned and unplanned obstacles need to be effectively handled.              Successful education
reform projects in Costa Rica (early 1990's) and in El Salvador (1997) were preceded by graduate studies or
seminars in Harvard University, while recent education achievements inBrazil can be linkedto the upgrading
o f education leaders. The project intends to train principals and other high-level school administrators to
ensure that informed leadership i s the norm inparticipating schools.

Benefitsfor private participation. Inmany countries where the public education system cannot accommodate
all o fthe needs o f the community, the private sector will often establish the administrative networks necessary
to bring essential educational services to the communities. Lessons learned from Pasto and Antioquia show


                                               - 20 -

that the planned participation o f private schools in education projects can (i)      reduce costs, (ii)increase
coverage by meeting the communities demand for education, and (iii)       stimulate improvements in quality and
efficiency due to increased competition between the public and private schools for students. Successful pilot
experiences took place inBogotb, among them the "sub-contracting" o fpublic schools to private ones.

Political support and project ownership are good predictors o f outcomes. The overall political support and
broad-based project ownership within the national government and the Department o f Cundinamarca confirm
their intention to use the new project in support o f the ongoing education reform that is a key component to
Colombia's social and economic development strategy. Additionally, the National Council on Economic and
Social Policy has passed a resolutionthat allows the Department o f Cundinamarca to borrow for this project.

Decentralized management. For improved decentralized management there i s a need for: (i) leadership
                                                                                                strong
by school principals; (ii) goals that can be monitored; (iii)
                           clear                                      widespread ownership o f the reform goals
through participation o f the beneficiaries and teachers in the diagnosis o f the school problems and the design
o f the changesholutions; (iv) empowerment o f schools to implement their own pedagogical projects in
connection with the needs o f the local labor market; and (v) school accountability based on the use o f
continuous information and feedback on performance and ways to improve it.

Administrative changes. The political history o f Colombia reveals that there are usually several changes o f
key government officials during any political term period. It i s therefore important to anticipate the impact o f
frequent turnovers inthe Education Secretariat and anticipate what type o f contingency measures can be taken
to minimize the impact of these frequent changes on project ownership and implementation.

Coordination with other Bank projects in Colombia. As indicated above, the project i s incorporating lessons
learned in Antioquia and Pasto within the framework o f the Bank strategy to support decentralization in
Colombia. Duringproject preparation the task manager organized several meetings to exchange experiences
as well as to identify and discuss further knowledge sharing activities during project implementation. This
coordination includes not only the utilization o f common procedures but i s also consistent with the objectives
and targets o f the "Educational Revolution" program o f the National Ministry. Inthe implementation o f the
Pasto Education project, the main strengths were the successful organization o f a support network at the
school level which guaranteed that every child would complete the first cycle and have immediate access to
the next level o f school. The network also helped rationalize the use o f available resources (human, physical,
technical and financial) and promoted a community participation model. Inthe Antioquia Education project
the main strengths were the technical assistance model and the enhancement o f decentralization through the
provision o f technical assistance to build the capacity o f the education sector at the municipal and school
levels. Inboth cases, evaluation o f student achievement was an important instrument for improving teaching
practices and student learning processes. The two projects also strengthened school autonomy through the
direct transfer o f budgetary resources to the schools themselves to help them increase the quality and
relevance o f education. The projects witnessed significant improvements in school management and a greater
participation o f the private sector in increasing school coverage for children from under-privileged socio-
economic groups, thereby piloting a viable and more cost-effective coverage expansion strategy. Because o f
their success, the Pasto Education and the Antioquia Education projects are being used as a model for the
proposed Cundinamarca project.

Project preparation also included lessons learned from other projects such as the Human Capital project
(including the model for carrying out an impact analysis) and the Rural Education project (partnerships with
the productive sectors). With respect to the Rural Education Project (PER) the Cundinamarca Secretariat o f
Education plans to integrate the PER into this Departmental Project to ensure consistency between both
operations as well as to optimize the use o f operational, technical, administrative and financial resources.




                                                -21 -

4. Indications of borrowercommitment andownership:

This is the third decentralized education project in Colombia, complementing the ongoing Rural Education
project and the Higher Education Project at the national level, attesting to the fruitful relationship which has
developed between the Bank and the education sector over the past ten years. During the pre-evaluation
mission, both the national government and the Department o f Cundinamarca confirmed their intention to use
the new project in support o f the ongoing education reform that i s a key component o f Colombia's social and
economic development strategy.        One indication o f Borrower commitment i s the fact that the National
Council o f Economic and Social Policy has already passed a resolution (# 3174 issued July 15, 2002)
authorizing the Department o f Cundinamarca to borrow for the project. The Joint Committee o f the Congress
that must approve all foreign loans has also approved the project. This authorization i s normally given after
the project appraisal stage. Section B 2 of this PAD provides a full account o f current government policies
and strategies to address the unfinished education reform agenda with the objective o f improving the quality
o f education in Colombia. Furthermore: (i)    there i s adequate knowledge by the Borrower o f the multi-sector
issues underpinning the project's design; (ii)  the proposed project i s clearly linked to the existing CAS; (iii)
development objectives are realistic and appropriate to the project design; (iv) there i s clear evidence o f
ownership inproject preparation with all the participating sectors and potential partners; (v) the project design
reflect lessons learned worldwide; and (vi) an experienced manager, familiar with Bank-financed projects in
the education sector, will lead the project implementation coordinationunit.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

The Bank's financial and technical assistance will provide a valuable contribution to project design and
implementation for several reasons. First, the Bank has played a key role inthe initiation o f several education
reforms in past years; Second, the Bank has substantial lending experience with projects focusing on quality
improvement programs that ensure the maximum efficiency o f educational investments in client countries,
including Colombia at the national and local levels; Third, the preparation o f this project i s based on a
strategy o f progressive interventions in the education system applying the lessons learned in Colombia at the
national and local levels and elsewhere in the region; Fourth, project preparation offers the opportunity to
bring to the department global expertise associated with successful interventions in education quality
improvement and decentralization; Fifth, the proposed project will inturn become an important laboratory for
continuous learning by the department, the country and the Bank. It represents a step forward by advocating a
comprehensive approach that benefits from the lessons learned in Pasto and Antioquia as well as adding a
combination o f inputsto improve the quality and relevance o f education by changing school management and
practices from the pedagogical, technical, administrative and financial viewpoints.

Several characteristics o f the project make it particularly innovative, attractive and replicable in other
departments, with necessary adjustments: (i)    the concept o f partnerships to mobilize private and community
resources and commitment to education successfully applied in Pasto, Antioquia and the Rural Education
projects i s also used in this project by creating strategic partnerships which could be a model for the rest o f
the country in terms o f joint ventures to improve labor competencies and skills capacities; (ii)        Through
upgrading the Department's Educational Improvement Plan at both the municipal and the school levels the
project would be an excellent laboratory for introducing decentralized planning and operational practices
which could conceivably be replicated in the overall education system; and (iii)this i s the first project
conceived within the framework o f the new Decentralization Law (Law 715), which introduces substantial
changes in the financing, organization and management o f the decentralized system particularly at the school
level and supports the evaluation o f students, teachers and principals. Therefore the project could be a model
for how to effectively support L a w 715.




                                                - 22 -

E. SummaryProject Analysis(Detailed assessmentsare inthe projectfile, see Annex 8)

1. Economic (see Annex 4):

(X) Cost benefit           NPV=US$322.42million; ERR= 36 %
( ) Cost effectiveness
( ) Other (specify)

The purpose o f the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project i s to assist the Government o f the
Department o f Cundinamarca in improving educational outcomes, strengthening competencies, and
developing the critical thinking and the personal and basic skills needed for enhancing productivity and
competitiveness in basic and secondary school graduates.         The project's development objectives are to: (i)
improve the quality and relevance o f the education system and (ii)improve the internal and external
efficiency o f education at the Department level. These goals would be accomplished through the two main
components: (i)improving school management to enhance quality and relevance; and (ii)institutional
strengthening to improve internal and external efficiency o f the Education Secretariat o f Cundinamarca. Key
performance indicators for the project are increased student achievement; decreased repetition and dropout
rates in primary and secondary education; increased equity in the attainment o f education and the
implementation o f modern managerial practices by principals and administrators.

The economic analysis presented inthis report (see Annex 4) yields the following conclusions and comments:


0     The extent o f coverage reached in the municipalities in the Department i s high. In this sense, it i s
      considered as adequate to concentrate the efforts of the Secretariat o f Education in carrying out and
      implementing programs aimed at improving the quality o f education.
0     According to studies carried out on the sector, it has been found that the socioeconomic factor explains
      nearly 30% o f the achievements obtained by students. However, there are two other factors that have an
      impact inachievement: the quality o fthe School Director and the teachers' performance.
0     Since the first variable is outside the hands o f the improvement program, the program should be concerted
      towards obtaining results inthe pedagogic practice improvement component.
0     According to the analysis carriedout by the Consultants, ifan additional year o f education can be reached
      inthe Department o f Cundinamarca with the quality improvement program, the cost-benefit ratio will be
      16, and the internal revenue rate will be 35%. If alternative scenarios are considered, in the case the
      program can only reach an increase goal in years o f education in only 0.4, the cost-benefit ratio will be
      5.5. These results confirm the desirability o fthe project fiom an economical point o f view.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):

Debt capacity

While the indebtedness o f the department has grown significantly in the past few years, the actual debt level
has not negatively affected its finances. Cundinamarca's operational interest to savings ratio rarely rises
above 0.40 making it legal for the Department to assume loans. Additionally, the department has designated
i t s own resources to finance investment in the education sector. Therefore, without altering the department's
financial sustainability, it will be able to readjust its budget to guarantee availability o f counterpart funds, the
debt servicing associated with the credit, and covering recurrent expenses generatedby the project.

Fiscal Impact
The Department o f Cundinamarca can absorb the proposedproject loan without serious negative implications
for its debt capacity and debt/GDP ratio and has the capacity to sustain the project beyond the loan period.


                                                  - 23 -

Cundinamarca allocates on average 370,000 million pesos (constant 2002 pesos) each year for education.
Expenditures in the sector experienced an average increase in real terms o f approximately 3% per year from
1994 to 2000 but are relatively stable with 78% allocated to teachers and social security in the municipalities,
17% for investments and 5% to finance subsidies, debt servicing and other programs. The distribution o f
expenditures betweenurban and rural zones i s roughly equivalent - 48% urban and 52% rural - and i s similar
to the distribution withinthe department.

Cundinamarca's revenues have been stable, and inthe last few years its collections and tax base have evolved
favorably.

3. Technical:

The project i s technicallyjustified on the basis o f the public nature o f the educational challenge it addresses:
to provide students who come from the poorest urban and rural areas o f the Cundinamarca Department, and
who are therefore socially and economically disadvantaged, to develop the skills and competencies necessary
to improve productivity and competitiveness and to achieve higher social and economic conditions through
improving the quality and relevance o fbasic and secondary education.

The project will respond to this challenge by:
    Supporting direct changes in school management and practices in concordance with the new legislation
    and both the National and Cundinamarca Education DevelopmentPlan;
    Promoting the participation o f all educational actors in the definition and articulation o f educational
    inputsandprocesses withinthe framework o f InstitutionalEducational Project;
    Implementing school - community activities to support education for peace projects aimed to mitigate the
    incidence o f violence and conflicts;
    Providing new administrative, financial and management tools to school management teams to allow
    them to assume the responsibilities assignedby L a w 715;
    Modifying the current teacher's pedagogical practices to contribute to effectively improving the level of
    educational achievement, thinking, and social competencies and skills of students;
    Promoting partnerships between educational institutions and economic actors;
    Addressing the institutional and organizational needs generatedby an increasingly decentralized system;
    Developing a department model based on the national evaluation system complemented by a broad
    concept o f measurements o f direct and indirect factors related to educational results, inputs and processes
    inthe schools, andperformance o fthe management teams, teachers and students;
    Developing a medium terms strategy to guide the Department in improving the quality, relevance and
    equity o f education.

4. Institutional:

Given the innovative nature o f the project special attention was given to the implementation capacity during
preparation. A specific capacity analysis study, available in the project files, was carried out by the
Corporacidn Calidad. This study o f both the central and local levels identified several issues and provides
recommendations. The issues o f concern are: (i)    the need for a department education plan which includes the
active participation o f the educational actors; (ii)insufficient coordination between sources o f financing
(department and general system o f co-participation) and the P E M as well as          the lack o f controls on the
educational expenditures; (iii)   insufficient support o f the SEC in developing decentralized educational plans;
(iv) inadequate information and communication technologies for proper management at the central and
municipal levels; (v) lack o f a manual and o f procedures to guide the technical, financial and administrative
functions at the central and local levels; (vi) weak capacity o f the municipal education councils (JUME); (vi)
unclear definition o f the functions and responsibilities among the different structures o f the education system;



                                                 - 24 -

(vii) weak coordination between the PEM's and PEI`s; (viii) lack o f coordination between the schools and the
private sectors; and, (ix) use o f obsolete management practices at all levels o f the education system.

With the support o f this project and the institutional strengthening program financed by IDB the Department
o f Cundinamarca will address these institutional concerns by:
0   Reorganizing the SEC to support the municipalities to carry out their legal mandate;
0    Involving all educational actors in defining and articulating educational inputs and processes within the
     framework o f InstitutionalEducationalProject;
0    Strengthening the administrative, financial and management practices o f schools' management teams;
0   Establishing strategic partnerships between the schools, the productive sectors and civil society;
0    Improving education statistics and performance indicators; and Designingand implementing a Ten Year
    EducationDevelopment Plan.

4.1 Executing agencies:

The department government i s committed and institutionally ready to implement the project. The Secretariat
o f Education (SEC) would implement the project establishing links with the office o f the Governor as well as
with the planning and economic directorate o f the Department. The units within the SEC responsible for the
implementation o f the sub components are: The Directorate o f Schools Organization for strengthening the
administrative, financial and management practices o f the schools' management teams; the Directorate for
Enhancement o f Education Quality for improving pedagogical practices, providing adequate instructional
resources and evaluating education quality; the Directorate o f Territorial Support for strengthening the
capacity o f the municipalities, and the Administrative and Finance Unit for administering the competitive
sub-projects o f subcomponent 1.4 which will establish strategic partnerships between the schools, the
productive sectors and civil society. The probability o f success o f this project hinges on the capacity of the
SEC: (i)to effectively implement the decentralization policy (Law 715); (ii)to sensitize and commit the
municipalities and the social and economic actors to the projects strategy and objectives; (iii)    to maintain the
project focus in improving the administrative, financial and pedagogical management o f schools; (iv) to
provide educational inputs in a coordinated fashion; (v) to generate synergy and cooperation with the
economic sector; and (vi) to efficiently and transparently manage project funds.

4.2 Project management:

A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for overall project coordination andwill work inclose
coordination with the line departments within SEC which will be responsible for implementation o f the
components. Specifically, the PCU will be responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluating the project.
The PCU will develop the administrative and technical procedures to assure the improvement o f education
quality through the administrative, financial and pedagogical management o f schools and the decentralized
operation o f the education system. The PCU will be directly responsible for the technical aspects o f the
competitive sub-projects.

4.3 Procurement issues:

An assessment o f the capacity o f the PCUto implement procurement actions for the project has been carried
out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on M a y 22, 2003. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure o f the proposed PCU and the interaction between the project's
Procurement staff and the Department's Central Unit for Administration and Finance.

The issues concerning the PCU's capacity to manage procurement activities were discussed and
recommendations to improve capacity have been made. The risks identified in the assessment include: (i)         the



                                                - 25 -

possibility o f interference from inexperienced procurement staff inprocurement management; (ii) need to
                                                                                                      the
create an effective procurement filing system in the Unit and a contract monitoring system and (iii)     the need
to hire an experienced procurement advisor to start procurement activities. The Bank and the PCU have
discussed alternatives to address these risks.       It involves: (i)promoting a training program for the less
experienced staff; (ii)creating a monitoring system and maintaining control of the procurement actions by
using such monitoring system; and (iii)hiring an experienced consultant to help improve procurement
capacity at least for the first six months o f project implementation.

Monitoring o f procurement actions and evaluation o f contracts awarded under this project are key activities
envisaged in the action plan, with a specific allocation o f human and financial resources. Document filing i s
expected to comply with the Bank's requirements. The new system will specify the procurement documents
to be filed, the PCU staff who would have access to the files, and the internal security measures for record-
keeping.

The overall project risk for procurement i s HIGH. This assessment can be revised and upgraded once
procurement capacity inthe PCU has been increased satisfactorily and results can be measured.

The unit has worked on developing a satisfactory system for filing, monitoring, and reporting procurement
actions for the PHRD Grant that i s currently implemented. There are internal controls for the documentation,
and it was advised to the future PCU staff to start filing procurement documentation around a unique ID
number or code for each procurement package and contract. The PCU i s not eligible for PMR-based
disbursements on procurement reporting grounds. However, this situation should be re-assessed once the Unit
acquires the needed skills and experience.

4.4 Financialmanagement issues:

The Executing Agencies, under the leadership o f the Cundinamarca Department (CD) have the institutional
capacity and the human resources required for the financial management o f the project. Inorder to assure that
the Secretariat o f Education (SEC) o f the Cundinamarca Department will be fully capable o f undertaking the
financial management responsibilities as a project coordination unit, a detailed action plan was prepared and
agreed to with the counterparts to be fully implemented by effectiveness. The SEC will manage the
administrative and financial management issues o f the project through its Administrative and Financial Unit
(AFU).

As the executing agency, SEC: i)prepares all the required documents; ii)asks the Secretariat o f Finance to
process the disbursements before the Bank in order for them to be deposited into the project special account;
and iii)transfers the funds from the department to the counterpart accounts.         Once the funds have been
allocated, SEC makes all the corresponding disbursements to the suppliers, as well as all advances and
reimbursements to the executing agencies, specifically to the municipalities (based on the eligible activities in
the PEM), to the schools (based on the school sub-projects) and to the partnerships (based on the partnership
sub-projects). Each executing agency has an exclusive bank account to handle the project funds.

The following are the main issues related to the financial management o f the project, which will be completed
and presented to the Bank by negotiations: (i)Final designation o f the financial management team and a
human resource profile for the PCU; (ii)       Adoption o f the FMR and the accounting system required by the
Colombian Government as represented by the Comptroller General and the Accountant General Offices for
monitoring and evaluation purposes; (iii)      Preparation o f Terms o f Reference and short list for the external
auditing process; (iv) Final draft o f the required Operational Manual and the Management Matrix, including
the internal control system to be implemented for comments and clearance from the Bank; (vi) Agreement on
the final disbursement arrangements for the use o f the Special Account (SA) and the flow o f funds according
to Bank policies and procedures. The Operational Manual will include the model agreement between the


                                                  - 26 -

Department, each municipality and its schools, to be reviewed and approved by the Bank. These agreements
will establish all the technical and financial conditions for the implementation o f the project at the
municipality and school level.

5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: C (Not Required)

5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The proposedproject has been ratedcategory C. Since the project will not finance construction or remodeling
o f schools, it i s not expected to have a negative environmental impact. On the contrary, better education to
deprived rural and urban populations should promote a more positive attitude towards the protection and
development o f the environment.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

Not required.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
Date o f receipt o f final draft:                   NIA

5.4 H o w have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA report
on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan'? Describe mechanisms of
consultationthat were used and which groups were consulted'?

Not required

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o fthe EMP'?

Not required.

6. Social:

6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The primary beneficiaries o f the project would be approximately 215,000 children between the ages o f 5 and
17 inrural and semi-urban areas living inpoverty. Special care will be taken to target low income students in
this project. Other target groups will be (i) youths who are more often prone to dropping out before
                                                male
entering secondary education, and (ii)  at-risk girls in groups with a highprobability o f teenage pregnancy that
inevitably leads to dropouts. Special attention will also be given to displaced children and youths by using
innovative pedagogies (SAT, Telesecundaria, Accelerated Learning, etc.) to increase access. Psychological
support for traumatized young people will also be made available.

6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: H o w are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

The project has been prepared in a very participatory manner. As part o f the project design process the SEC
consulted with a variety o f internal and external stakeholders and potencial beneficiaries through a
combination o f individual interviews, focus groups meetings, workshops, and site visits. Participants have
represented a wide variety o f organizations: teacher and principals unions, private schools, private companies,


                                                - 27 -

parent organizations, NGOs, international organizations (IDB, UNICEF, UNDP) and governmental agencies
(municipal authorities). The discussion o f the 10 Year Development Plan has involved a large number o f
organizations at the department, municipal and school level. All the unitswithin the SEC have been involved
directly in the preparation process to increase project ownership. The consultations helped identify and build
consensus around the key objectives and components o f the project and also helped better define key
operational aspects of the project.

6.3 H o w does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

Project preparation involved consultation with the more important donors, financial institutions, multi and
bilateral agencies, and NGOs. This participatory approach i s expected to facilitate participatory
implementation o f the different strategies to be used for improve the management practices o f school
principals and to improve pedagogical practices. The establishment o f strategic partnerships between the
schools, the productive sectors and civil society would permit a highlevel o f participation.

Parents and communities will be essential participants in the project. The SEC has recognizedthe importance
o f drawing uponthe commitment and skills o f multiple stakeholders in order to reach the project objectives.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social development
outcomes?

The institutional arrangements were confirmed during project pre-appraisal and will be reviewed during
appraisal. The eligibility criteria for selecting the project interventions (schools) were based on the
conclusions o f a specific targeting study and will be monitored duringproject implementation (see Section 3,
Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices).          Strong involvement o f all SEC
departments inthe implementation o fthe project i s confirmed.'

The design of the project structurally incorporates stakeholders into the implementation activities
(partnerships with productive and civil society for example). By involving the stakeholders at this level,
greater continuity betweenproject activities and their outcomes will be achieved: teachers, principals, parents
and communities will help define appropriate, relevant curriculum, materials and training needs. The
competitive subprojects in the partnerships between schools and productive sectors subcomponent will
guarantee the transparency o f the selection o f proposals for funding.

6.5 H o w will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

The SEC will be responsible for monitoring the project. To this end SEC will contract and collaborate with an
outside agency to design and implement studies that evaluate progress and final impact, taking into account
the key performance and output indicators outlined inthe project description. Also the evaluation unit within
the SEC will continuously supervise project activities.




                                                 - 28 -

7. Safeguard Policies:

7.1 Are any o f the following safeguard policies triggered by the project'?

                                    Policv                                               Triggered
    Environmental Assessment(OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                                       No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                              No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                               No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                 No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                             N o
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                              No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                                         No
    Projects in InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                               No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)"                                   No

7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
8. BusinessPolicies

8.1 Check applicable items:
Financing o f recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP 6.30, BP 6.30, GP 6.30) The Bank will finance 70% o f the total
amount for this project. Both the percentage and the loan amount fall within the rolling 3 year local cost
financial limits for projects inColombia.

Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP 12.10, BP 12.10, GP 12.10)
Financial management (OP 10.02, BP 10.02)
Involvement o f NGOs (GP 14.70)

8.2 For business policies checked above, describe issue(s) involved.
N o specifics issues are envisaged.

F. Sustainability and Risks

1. Sustainability:

Sustainability o f the proposed project was analyzed along two dimensions: financial and institutional. As
stated in section E2, a first draft o f the financial requirements for project implementation, including long-term
recurrent liabilities (financial sustainability) will be made available during the appraisal mission.         This
information will allow an assessment o f the recurrent cost implications o f the project on the SEC budget.
Equally important as the financial sustainability i s the institutional sustainability, including the legal,
organizational and technical arrangements needed to ensure the continuation o f the activities developed and
financed by the project beyond the life o f the project.           It should be highlighted in this respect that
implementation o f this project will take place within the context o f the regular structure, procedures and
responsibilities o f existing SEC departments. Other aspects contributing to project sustainability are: (i)   the
expansion o f the decentralized responsibilities as result o f the complete implementation o f L a w 715; (ii) the
strengthening o f the efficiency and effectiveness in management o f the SEC, the municipalities and the
schools that submit successful sub-projects; and (iii)      increasing the participation o f the community and the
economic sector inthe design of the PEM's and PEI's.




                                                   - 29 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found in the fourth column o f Annex 1):

                                       Risk
                                      Rating
From Outputs to Objective
Political and social conflicts          H           .Reliable information and communication system
may prevent adequate                                *Promote community ownership and participation
targeting o f the interventions                     *Appropriate targeting criteria
                                                    *Promote Education for Peace experiences
                                                   Be part o f the ongoing Education for Peace Partnership with
                                                   other international, national and local institutions.
Changes inDepartment and                H          The project will provide communities and beneficiarieswith
Municipal Administration                           transparent information on its objectives, activities and
                                                   resources. Additionally, highlevels o f community
                                                   participation are expected throughout implementation. Thus,
                                                   local interest groups (including schools, parents and
                                                   communities) would sustain the demand for the project, making
                                                   radical deviations from project goals a political disadvantage.
Changes inDepartment fiscal             M          To reduce the risko f a deterioratingfinancial status, the
situation and a lack o f                           indebtedness study was updatedprior to national approval for
counterpart hnds                                   the guarantee o f the loan and prior to project appraisal.
                                                   Additionally, the central government requested a fiscal
                                                   management plan to guarantee efficient use o f revenues, lower
                                                   operating costs, and/or reduced access to additional debt.
Project concept, strategy and           M            Social communication camping
objectives are not fdly                            Dissemination o f good practices
understoodby stakeholders
(municipalities, schools
management teams,
community leaders, economic
sectors)
Teachers and principals may             M           .Motivationstrategy andcampaign
be reluctant to participate in                       Consultationand involvement o f teachers union
innovative professional                            Organization o fprofessional developments networks
development programs.
Difficulties inbuilding                 M            Adapting good experiences
consensus around                                   Ensuringthe participation o f appropriate specialists inthe
competency-based curriculum                        process
Decentralizationmay be                  M           .The municipality has to be active and able to attendto the
incompletely or poorly                             needs o f its education institutions.
implemented, leaving                               Adequate supervision mechanisms for the observation o f the
individual schools without the                     institutionalplans' development.
resources to act on their
school improvementplans
Partnerships with the private           S          * Use a flexible approach
sector and providers o f non-                      Develop cross fertilization activities
formal education (for example
SENA) may not work as
expected.




                                                 - 30 -

                                      Risk                                    igati    su
                                      Rating
From Components to Outputs
The approach used for                  N        The partialevaluations envisaged to be carriedout during
improving the quality and                       project implementation will allow for corrections, ifneeded
relevance o f basic and
secondary education might not
be well received by the
students.
Expanding the quality                  M        Consultation and motivation campaign will be carried at the
assurance system mightrun                       design stage as well as duringimplementation
into resistance.
Insufficient institutional             M        *Motivation strategy and campaign
capacity at the central and                     *Provision o f specific training
decentralized levels to manage                  Cross fertilization activities
the changes envisaged by the
project.
Implementationprogress will            H        A lesson from Pasto andAntioquia is that when worlung with a
be slow, especially inthe first                 new client, project implementation can be difficult and requires
years o fthe project.                           intensive training and supervision.
Overall RiskRating                     M
RiskRating - H(HighRisk), S       ubstantial Ri k), M (Modest Risk), Nwegligible or L o w Risk)

3. Possible ControversialAspects:

N o controversial aspects are considered.

G. MainLoanConditions

1. EffectivenessCondition

0   Operational Manualhas been adopted by the Borrower and approved by the Bank
0   At least five ParticipationAgreements between SEC, the Municipalities andthe Schools.
    An external auditing firm shouldbe hiredbasedonterms o freference acceptable to the Bank.

H. Readinessfor Implementation

---     1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start o f project implementation.
-       1. b) Not applicable.
-X
 X      2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
        project implementation.
-X      3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
        quality.
-       4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loan conditions (Section G):




                                              - 3 1 -

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies


      1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
-     2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bankpolicies.




Martha Laverde                        Ana-Maria Arriagada                IsabelM.Guerrero
Team Leader                            Sector Director                   Country Director




                                            - 32 -

                                               Annex 1: ProjectDesignSummary
                           COLOMBTA:CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

4ierarchy of Objectives         <ey Performance Indicators         lata Collection Strategy      Zritical Assumptions
iector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:                 iector/ country reports:      from Goal to Bank llission)

mproving the quality o f        Iverage educational                lousehold surveys
:ducation as key factors for    ittainment o f the population in
ncreasingeconomic               'undinamarca as compared           ndependent Borrower
:ompetitiveness and growth,     64th the national average.         esearch findings
educing poverty and inequity,
,upportingthe decentralization                                     Norld Bank reports on
jrocess inthe education sector,                                    ioverty and income
md buildinga peaceful society                                      listribution

Program Development              Outcome I Impact                  Project reports:              [from Objective to Goal)
Objecthe:                        Indicators:

[mproving educational
outcomes, strengthening
competencies, and developing
the critical thinking and the
personal andbasic skills
needed for enhancing
productivity and
competitiveness inbasic and
secondary school graduates

1)   Improve the quality and     aathematics and Language          Education statistics and      nterventions to improve
     relevance o f the education or Grades 5 and 9: Student        assessment o f learning       luality o f basic and secondary
     system                      rchievement on standardized       outcomes.                     :ducation system are fully
                                 ests increases by 5% in those                                   :onsistent with the need o f the
                                 nunicipalities participating in                                 arget population.
                                 he Project.

2)   Improve the internal and    'articipating schools and         Issociated factors
     external efficiency o f     nunicipalities provide general    pestionnaires and
     education at the            kvidence o f the impact o f their pestionnaires developed
     Department level            irojects on educational           hrough active -  participatorj
                                 irocesses and quality o f         esearch by level.
                                 :ducation

                                 iational Test
                                 All schools inthe                 nformation o f Education      'roject interventions follow
                                 nunicipalities participating in   iystem, Secretariat o f       argeting criteria; modification
                                 he project will seek an           :ducation o f Cundinamarca    if traditionalpedagogical
                                 ncrease in the scores o f the                                   iractices and school principals
                                 tudents in national test (grade
                                  1) from low to medium level




                                                        - 33 -

                             Repetition Rates                [nformation of Education
                             At least a 10%decline inthe     System, Secretariat o f
                             repetition rate inthose         Education o f Cundinamarca
                             municipalities participating in
                             the Project

                             Dropout Rates                   [nformation of Education
                             At least 10%decline inthe       System, Secretariat of
                             dropout rate inthose            Education o fNational
                             municipalities participating in minister o f Education
                             the Project.

                             Average Student-Teacher         [ndependent Borrower
                             Ratio:                          Research findings
                             The mean studentlteacher
                             ratio to reach 22 inrural
                             zones and 31inurban zones
                             inthose municipalities
                             participating inthe Project.

3utput from each              Output Indicators:             Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
. Improving School
danagement to Enhance
?uality and Relevance

mproving the administrative, 90% of the schools involved in Project monitoring system    Project interventions take into
inancial and management      the project have anduse a       reports.                    :onsideration actual conditions
lractices o fparticipating   school administrative                                       inrural andurbanarea
chool management teams       management information
                             system.

                             175 rural and urban principals  Bank supervision            f i e targeting criteria agreed to
                             involved inthe project and      missions                    3re fully applied without
                             1,465 members of the school                                 political interference
                             usingthe information            Surveys scheduled by the
                             management system as a tool to evaluation system
                             improve activities likeplanning
                             and management o f schools.

                             About 90% o f the schools       Observation in class        The executive mandate roles &
                             implement educational project   performedby component       responsibilities o f the executing
                             (PEI) oriented to improve       team                        units & agencies are clearly
                             quality inthe classroom; and                                defined
                             endowed with appropriate
                             instructionalresources and
                             learningmaterials

mproving pedagogical         About 9.000 teachers inrural    Certificates o f delivery   Timely and good quality
iractices                    and urban areas o fthe eligible recorded inthe monitoring   technical assistance and support
                             municipalities are applying new and evaluationsystem.       providedby SEP
                             teaching methodologies and
                             usinglearningresources




                                                    - 34 -

'roviding adequate             About 90% of the schools        3ank Supervision            'he public & private
nstructional resources         involved inthe project have                                 x t o r and social actors work in
                               and use the instructional                                     coordinated
                               resources Kit.                                              lanner pursuingcommon
                                                                                           bjectives

htablishing strategic          About, 7,200 students in 180    ndependent Borrower
iartnerships between the       schools working in 72           tesearch findings
chools, the productive sectors partnerships with the
.nd civil society.             productive sectors and civil
                               society

                               72 Projects approved with
                               participation of the private
                               sector.

=Institutional  Strengthening
fo Improve Internal and
External EfJiciency

Strengthening Departmental     The Education Secretariat and   3ank supervision             'roject management and key
and Municipal Education        all the municipalities                                       echnical personnel remain on
Management / Strengthening     participating inthe project are vlonitoring and evaluation   luties along the project
decentralization               carrying out the new            ,ystem                       mplementation
                               responsibilities and
                               competencies assigned inthe
                               DecentralizationL a w (Law
                               715)

lesigning and implementing a   The 50 municipalities served by Bank Supervision             40 political interference inthe
Ten Year Education             the Project have implemented                                lecision making process as well
Ievelopment Plan               their Educational Development                                s in the technical actions
                               Plans in conformance with the
                               Department 10-Year Plan
                               guidelines.


lesigning and Implementing a 50 targeted municipalities with
2uality Evaluation System at   Educational Plans (PEM)
he Department Level            oriented to improve quality,
                               relevance and equity o f
                               education with financial
                               resources assigned.

                               The Department has              Bank Supervision             Availability o f counterpart
                               implementedthe Evaluation                                    Funds
                               System for students, teaching
                               staff and schools

                               Both the Department and the
                               municipalities participating in
                               the project have and use the
                               information system with
                               appropriate indicators to
                               measure the internal efficiency
                               o f the education system.




                                                        - 35 -

3. Management,Monitoring      1monitoring systemfor the
and Evaluation                 'roject with regular reports
                               ised for decision-making.
                               Ylanuals are properly used by
                               ,oth SEC eligible
                               nunicipalities and the schools.




                               Component 1: USS16.5            'rojects monitoring reports
School Management to           million
Enhance Quality and



administrative, financial and
management practices o f the
schools' management teams.
1.2 Improving pedagogical

1.3 Providing adequate
instructional resources.
1.4 Establishing strategic
Partnerships between the
schools and the productive

 1.5 Financing o f Municipal
School Management to
Enhance Quality and



Component 2. Institutional     Component 2: US$3.64
 Strengthening to Improve      million
Internal and External
Efficiency
 2.1 Strengthening Department
 and Municipal Education
 Management.
 2.2. Designing and
 Implementing a Quality
 Evaluation System at the
 Departmental level.

 Component 3. Project           Component 3: US$1.06
 Management, Monitoring         million
 and Evaluation.
 3.1 Project Administration
3.2. Project Monitoring and
Evaluation




                                                       - 36 -

                                  Annex 2: DetailedProjectDescription
                     COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

The development objectives o f the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project are to: (i)        improve
the quality and relevance o f the education system and (ii)    improve the internal and external efficiency o f
education at the Department, Municipal and School levels. This intervention will assist the Government o f the
Department o f Cundinamarca in developing the necessary skills and competencies in basic and secondary
school students that will lead to improved productivity, competitiveness and enhanced overall social skills
that will serve as a means to attaining better social and economic conditions.        The Project includes the
following three components (i)Improving School Management to Enhance Quality and Relevance; (ii)
Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External Efficiency; and (iii)Project Management,
Monitoringand Evaluation.

By Component:

Project Component 1     - US$16.50  million

Component 1 Improving School Management to Enhance Quality and Relevance (US$16.5 million):
                -
The first component would support changes to school management and practices in accordance with new
legislation and department development plans that seek quality and relevance improvements as well as the
identification and implementation o f school-community activities to support education for peace projects
designed to mitigate the incidence o f violence and conflicts. This component will finance technical assistance
to support the schools' teams in the identification, preparation and implementation o f the Schools'
Improvement Plans (PEI). Firms andor individuals will be hired by SEC in agreement with the schools to
provided technical assistance to schools. The School Improvement Plans will be the basis for Municipal
School Sub-projects that will finance the activities undertaken by the schools under this component, such as
training, technical assistance, maintenance, and investment (Le. textbooks, labs, equipment and furniture
among other things and according to their needs). The municipal School subproject would be demand-driven,
and their preparation would be accompanied by promotional and technical assistance efforts to develop school
and community capacity to prepare and assess projects as needed. A written agreement between the
Department and the Municipalities will regulate the transfer and use o f funds to finance the school
investments.

To finance the municipal school project developed by each o f the schools o f the participating municipalities,
the project will periodically transfer funds to each institution through a current account which will form part
o f the Fondos de Servicios Docente (school managed account established by law) according to the procedures
detailed inthe Operational Manual.

The component consists o f the following four sub-components: (i)    improving the administrative, financial and
management practices o f participating school management teams; (ii)     improving pedagogical practices; (iii)
providing adequate instructional resources; and (iv) establishing strategic partnerships between the schools,
the productive sectors and civil society.

All o f the sub-components will be incorporated into the School Improvement Plans (PEI) designed by the
schools with the support o f Technical Assistance (TA) and each will seek to promote a comprehensive
approach to the appropriate use o f human, financial and physical resources as well as the formation o f
partnerships. Ultimately, they will impact all levels o f education - from preschool to upper secondary
education - - because the Colombian education system i s an integrated and sequential structure with all
grades located in a single or multiple facility but under the responsibility o f a single principal. In summary,
this component will finance: (i) preparation and implementation o fthe PEIinthe form o fa sub-project for
                                 the
improving managerial skills and teacher training and for providing resources and materials to improve the


                                               - 37 -

managerial and pedagogical practices at the 900 schools covered by the 50 targeted municipalities; and (ii)    the
75 demand driven partnership sub-projects to be selected by a competitive process and outlined in the
Operational Manual.

The resources for the implementation o f the Municipal School Subprojects and the Partnertship Subprojects
will be managed directly by the schools for both types of subprojects. Furthermore as has been demonstrated
in the Antioquia and Pasto projects in Colombia there is qualified Technical Assistance to assist schools in
carrying out sound School Improvement Plans (PEI) as well as related subprojects for improving management
o f the schools and pedagogical practices. As inAntioquia and Pasto no conflict between the school teams and
the external TA i s envisioned.

1.1 Strengthening administrative, financial and management practices of the schools' management
teams

Description
The objective o f this sub-component i s to modify the current managerial practices o f school principals in
order to improve the quality o f education and efficiency in the use o f resources. This sub-component would
finance: (i) approximately 10 teams o f two professionals each that will provide technical assistance and
tutoring to school management teams in preparing their School Improvement Plan; (ii)a perdiem,
transportation, and registration fees for the attendance o f school teams at courses specific to the
administrative, financial and management needs o f their schools; (iii)    short term internships, study tours and
exchange experiences for "cross fertilization"; (iv) the basic equipment and materials and services necessary
to organize teaching networks; and (v) the development o f communication systems (virtual, printed, etc.) for
the dissemination o f good practices. All these activities could be part o f the schools sub-projects.

Implementation
The implementation strategy includes: (i)   implementing a training plan for all principals and rural directors o f
education institutions across the Department in: (a) constructing and using new management and
administrative tools resulting from changes in school management regulations; (b) preparing principals to
exercise their new roles, including the administration o f education services funds, performance evaluation o f
teachers, conflict resolution, project development, and partnership formation with the productive sector and
with civil society; and (ii)providing technical assistance to management and administration teams o f targeted
schools (principals, rural directors, coordinators, governing councils o f the schools in the 50 municipalities)
based on the legal nature o f the school as well as the specific requirements demanded by the teams in each
school or group o f schools.

For the consolidation and sustainability o f the processes to be undertaken in this sub-component, support for
preparing the School Improvement Plan would be provided over the lifetime o f the project (four years). Staff
development will rely on the provision o f non-pecuniary, incentive-based strategies including the provision o f
tutoring, technical support, specific training, exchange o f relevant experiences among schools and principals,
and developing teaching networks. It i s expected that this sub-component will reach approximately 1640
principals, coordinators and members of educational councils in 50 Municipalities. The project will affect
about 900 schools (700 rural and 200 urban).

1.2 Improving pedagogicalpractices

Description
The objective o f this sub-component i s to modify current teacher's pedagogical practices in order to improve
the level o f educational achievement, critical thinking, and social competencies and skills exhibited by
students. This sub-component would finance: (i)       approximately 10 teams o f four professional which will
provide technical assistance to the schools teachers; (ii) perdiem, transportation and registration fees for the
                                                           a


                                                - 38 -

attendance o f teachers at courses specific to their needs and those o f the school; (iii) term internships,
                                                                                            short
study tours and exchange experiences to stimulate cross fertilization activities; (iv) basic equipment, materials
and services in support o f the teaching network; and (v) the publication and dissemination of good practices.
All these activities could bepart o fthe schools' sub-projects.

Implementation
The implementation strategy consists o f developing a participative reflection-action process involving the
daily teaching practices used by teachers in the targeted institutions, supported by the technical assistance
teams and strengthened through the production and use o f learning resources and through the sharing o f
experiences.

Improvement o f pedagogical practices will be achieved through the reflection-action process which includes:
a) recording significant teacher practices (both their particular strengths and their weaknesses); b) discussion
and critical reflection o f those practices; c) introducing changes into their practices; and d) using and
developing learning resources such as methodologies, technologies, pedagogic proposals and didactic tools.
This process i s not necessarily linear since it does not entail a series o f sequential steps. For example, after
recording hisher practice, a teacher may introduce changes in the logbook forms with hidher students
without having to enter into discussion about the changes. Likewise, a learning resource may introduce
changes without the need for registering the practice. In order for these processes to meet their objectives
they should be strengthened by developing support and sustainability mechanisms such as networks, virtual
assistance, and sharing and disseminating successful experiences. It i s expected that this sub-component will
impact approximately 9,000 teachers inabout 900 schools.

The effort to enhance managerial skills will be linked to the training o f teachers in their own work
environment, where through reflection and action methodologies teachers will have the opportunity to work
with colleagues reflecting on their own daily practices thereby effectively introducing "new teaching
practices". "New teaching practices" are those that improve learning by motivating children and building
knowledge based on their own experiences in the framework o f logical thinking and problem solving. This
methodology has been proved to be very effective and has been adopted in several LAC countries such as
Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Colombia as part o f their national teacher training policy and strategy and has
clear advantages over traditional methodologies.

The Incentive-based, non-pecuniary activities under this sub-component will include the selection o f technical
assistance teams; the identification o f pedagogical practices and the provision o f technical support for
establishing and monitoring reflection-actions; training in specific areas; the exchange o f experiences among
groups o f teachers; the establishment o f teacher networks, and the use o f non-formal training methods, such
as publications, online training, WEB pages etc.

1.3 Providing adequate instructionalresources

Description
The project would finance: (i)about 10 teams o f two professionals each which will provide technical
assistance to diagnose the instructional resources needed, to develop a directory, to identify relevant
experiences, to organize the instructional resource areas in the schools, and to train teachers and management
teams; (ii)a perdiem, transportation for teachers to attend seminars on developing, selecting and using
instructional resources; (iii) term internships, study tours and events for exchangekross fertilization
                               short
activities; (iv) the basic material, equipment and services in support o f the network for pedagogical
management; (v) provision       o f basic and demonstration learning materials for the schools and (v) the
publication and dissemination o f good practices.




                                                - 39 -

Implementation
This sub-component seeks to train both teachers and management teams o f participating schools to develop,
select, and use instructional resources relevant to the curricular needs and the new pedagogical practices to be
used in the classroom. The implementation strategy focuses on three basic aspects and will be part o f the
schools' subprojects: (a) the acquisition by education institutions o f relevant learning resources needed by
teachers, manager staff and students, (b) the training o f teachers and manager staff both inthe pedagogic and
managerial use o f these resources and in the development o f new resources in order to build capacity at the
institutions in terms o f the human resources required for curricular development, and (c) support and
sustainability mechanisms, such as the Pedagogic Management Network and others. This sub-component i s
expected to benefit about 900 schools, 700 rural and 200 urban.

1.4 Establishingstrategic Partnershipsbetweenthe schools andthe productivesectors

Description
The project would finance: (i)  the development o f 180 Partnerships between key partners: a publiceducation
institution; one or more productive actors; who may join a partnership as long as they contribute to the
overall goal o f the partnership; and (ii)   at least 72 competitive sub-projects with an average value o f
US$13,900 for a total o f US$l.O million, no more than 85 percent financed by the Project and at least 15
percent financed by the Partnerships themselves. Technical assistance for grant evaluation capacity building,
networking and a per-diem for the team who manage the technical assistance for the partnerships will also be
funded. The sub-projects would directly benefit a total o f 7,200 students and contribute to the quality and
relevance o f education in Cundinamarca as measuredby a decrease in the school drop out rate in the schools
andor municipalities that benefit from a Partnership-funded project; a decrease in student repetition rates in
participating schools andor municipalities; and an increase inthe number o f students who express aspirations
to enroll in an institution o f higher education (university or technical college) at some future date, seek
employment andor start their own business.

Implementation
The Partnerships Sub-component i s designed as an experimental approach to add relevance to the curriculum
of students within the 50 municipalities targeted by the overall Project. Specifically, the Partnerships sub-
Component seeks to promote the development o fthepersonal critical thinking and basic skills and capacities.

The subprojects would expose students to a variety o f real work environments, where they would have the
opportunity to use their personal skills through interacting with employees, learning practical applications for
problem solving and decision-making, and other basic skills such as applied math. The hope i s that as
students gain exposure to the real-world work environment, where they need to use their math, science and
thinkingskills to solve real problems, they will begin to see the relevance o f educationto their success inthe
future and will, in turn, become more motivated to stay in school, perform well, and either pursue higher
education or seek gainful employment upon graduation. Some students mayjust learn better when they apply
concepts in a realwork environment and thus improve their performance at school.

Partnership Sub-projects will be evaluated using specific Project Selection Criteria. Proposals that do not
meet the stated criteria will be asked for additional information or to modify their proposal. If all o f the
pending issues are resolved prior to the deadline, the sub-project will be submitted for consideration to the
Evaluation Commitee. If not, the sub-project will be rejected (see Annex 11 for the selection criteria and the
selection mechanism).




                                               - 40 -

Imulementation
This sub-component seeks to train both teachers and management teams o f participating schools to develop,
select, and use instructional resources relevant to the curricular needs and the new pedagogicalpractices to be
used in the classroom. The implementation strategy focuses on three basic aspects and will be part o f the
schools' subprojects: (a) the acquisition by education institutions o f relevant learning resources needed by
teachers, manager staff and students, (b) the training o f teachers and manager staff both in the pedagogic and
managerial use of these resources and in the development o f new resources in order to build capacity at the
institutions in terms of the human resources required for curricular development, and (c) support and
sustainability mechanisms, such as the Pedagogic Management Network and others. This sub-component i s
expected to benefit about 900 schools, 700 rural and 200 urban.

1.4 Establishing strategic Partnerships between the schools and the productive sectors

Descriution
The project would finance: (i)  the development o f 180 Partnerships between key partners: a public education
institution; one or more productive actors; who may join a partnership as long as they contribute to the
overall goal o f the partnership; and (ii)at least 72 competitive sub-projects with an average value o f
US$13,900 for a total o f US$l.O million, no more than 85 percent financed by the Project and at least 15
percent financed by the Partnerships themselves. Technical assistance for grant evaluation capacity building,
networking and a per-diem for the team who manage the technical assistance for the partnerships will also be
funded. The sub-projects would directly benefit a total o f 7,200 students and contribute to the quality and
relevance o f education in Cundinamarca as measured by a decrease in the school drop out rate inthe schools
and/or municipalities that benefit from a Partnership-funded project; a decrease in student repetition rates in
participating schools andor municipalities; and an increase in the number o f students who express aspirations
to enroll in an institution o f higher education (university or technical college) at some future date, seek
employment and/or start their own business.

Imulementation
The Partnerships Sub-component i s designed as an experimental approach to add relevance to the curriculum
o f students within the 50 municipalities targeted by the overall Project. Specifically, the Partnerships sub-
component seeks to promote the development o fthepersonal critical thinking and basic skills and capacities.

The subprojects would expose students to a variety o f real work environments, where they would have the
opportunity to use their personal skills through interacting with employees, learning practical applications for
problem solving and decision-making, and other basic skills such as applied math. The hope i s that as
students gain exposure to the real-world work environment, where they need to use their math, science and
thinking skills to solve real problems, they will begin to see the relevance o f education to their success inthe
future and will, in turn, become more motivated to stay in school, perform well, and either pursue higher
education or seek gainful employment upon graduation. Some students mayjust learn better when they apply
concepts in a real work environment and thus improve their performance at school.

Partnership Sub-projects will be evaluated using specific Project Selection Criteria. Proposals that do not
meet the stated criteria will be asked for additional information or to modify their proposal. If all o f the
pending issues are resolved prior to the deadline, the sub-project will be submitted for consideration to the
Evaluation Commitee. Ifnot, the sub-project will be rejected (see Annex 11 for the selection criteria and the
selection mechanism).




                                               - 40  -

1.5 Financing of Municipal School Management to Enhance Quality and Relevance

Project Component 2 US$3.64 million
                        -

Component 2     -  Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External Efficiency (US$3.64
million): This component would strengthen the institutional and management capacity o f the Cundinamarca
Education Secretariat and the target municipalities. The objective o f this project i s to improve the overall
efficiency o f the Cundinamarca education system.         The component consists o f the following two sub-
components: (i)Strengthening Department and Municipal education management; and (ii)              Designing and
implementing a Quality Evaluation System at the Departmental level.

2.1 Strengthening Department and MunicipalEducation Management

Descriution
This project would finance: (i)  technical assistance and studies for designing, implementing, evaluating and
disseminating SEC and Municipality improvements plans; (ii)       training courses for managerial, technical and
administrative personal; (iii) developing and disseminating manuals and guidelines for improving technical,
administrative and financial processes; (iv) provision o f basic material and services to support municipal
management; (v) improving education statistics and performance indicators and (vi) the publication and
dissemination o f good practices.

Implementation
The implementation strategy consists o f developing an evaluation system which would allow the SEC to
define education policies and improvement plans, ensure that education meets social demands, and facilitate
and improve education decision-making processes across the sector. This will be accomplished through (i)
designing and implementing a 10Year Education Plan, and (ii)       strengthening decentralization.

(i)The10YearDevelopmentPlanwilladdresseducationalissuesconcentrating thedepartment effortin
improving the quality, relevance and equity o f education by: (a) expanding coverage with equity to reduce
regional and social disparities inthe delivery o f education services ;(b) promoting quality improvements; (c)
formulating a strategy to improve the internal and external efficiency o f the education system; (d) monitoring
and evaluating educational outcomes and processes and disseminating the results o f the evaluation; (e)

provision o f education at the municipal and school levels; (0 developing strategic partnerships for the
 strengthening the decentralization process in terms o f the responsibilities and accountability structures inthe

management o f the education system. The implementation strategy includes: (i)compiling national and
international experiences in improving education systems; (ii)    evaluating the internal and external capacities
o f the Cundinamarca system; (iii)    identifying the main factors affecting quality, relevance and equity in
education; (iv) building consensus among the educational and decision making actors concerning the value
and financial viability o fthe proposedactions.

The project will finance workshops, seminars, studies, dissemination, short internships and study tours,
technical assistance and visitor experts.

(ii)Strengthening decentralization in education administration focuses on (a) modernizing the Secretariat
o f Education, and (b) strengthening the administrative capacities o fthe Municipalities.

(a) Modernizing the SEC to strengthen its institutional, financial and managerial capacities, the following
activities would be carried out: (i)
                                   identifying the institutional, financial and managerial changes necessary, in
accordance with the legal regulations; (ii)designing a new mission aligned with the new support functions o f
the SEC, and (iii)  designing and implementing a reorganizatiodmoderization plan. To complement its



                                               -41 -

modernization strategy, SEC will be involved in improving the assessment methods used for evaluating
education. Specific activities to be undertaken include the:


0   Development and implementation of a department assessment/evaluation model based on Ministry
    o f Education Guidelines (Law 715/2001, Resolution 166 o f 2003) and the information needed by
    national, department, municipal and schools related to educational results, inputs and process in the
    schools, and performance o f the management teams, teachers and students.
0   Development of complementary administrative and management practices which allow schools,
    municipalities and the Department to consolidate and share information. Improve the currents
    information systems in order to obtain reliable education statistics for policy making. The strategy
    includes the development and application o f new modules for reporting on enrollment, management o f
    the schools, and the articulation with the others sources o f statistical information in the context o f the
    Departmental management information system (MIS). The project will finance: (i)           the application and
    processing o f the information; (ii)the acquisition o f appropriate software; (iii)the dissemination o f
    results.

(b) Strengthening the administrative capacities of the Municipalities will be achieved through providing
technical assistance to targeted municipalities to strengthen their administrative capacities and to improve the
quality, efficiency and equality o f the education provided. Under the Municipal Improvement Plan (PEM) the
implementation strategy includes: identifying methodologies and instruments used for improving municipal
education management; training of education municipal authorities and management councils; evaluation o f
management and administrative practices in the targeted municipalities and designing, consolidating and
implementing municipal strengthening plans

2.2. Designing and Implementing a Quality Evaluation System at the Departmental level

Description
The project would finance: (i)  technical assistance, training and studies to design and implement the Quality
Evaluation system; (ii) the application o fmeasurement instruments and the processing o f information; (iii)   the
acquisition o f appropriate software; (iv) training for the adequate use o f the results by the different education
levels, and (v) dissemination o f results.

Implementation
This sub-component would develop a comprehensive educational quality evaluation system that allows the
Secretariat o f Education o f the Department to define education policies, direct improvement plans and
facilitate and improve decision-making processes for all participants in the education system - students,
municipalities, and the department. The implementation strategy includes improving assessment methods and
encouraging continuous evaluation o f education through (i)    the development and application o f new methods
for reporting information and data, (ii)  improvements inthe management and administration o f schools, and
(iii) articulationwithothersourcesofstatisticswithintheframeworkoftheDepartmentManagement
     the
Information System (MIS).       A Department Quality Evaluation System, based on the national evaluation
system, will be developed and complemented by a broad range o f indicators to measure direct and indirect
factors related to educational results, inputs and process in schools, and performance o f management teams,
teachers and students. The Quality Evaluation System will inform the development o f education policies in
the Department, assist inthe development o f improvement plans, and ensure accountability with respect to the
quality o f education.

Development o f the System requires reviewing the National Evaluation System, as well as selecting, adapting
and designing new instruments and methodologies to evaluate outcomes, practices and processes, inputs and
context regarding students, teachers, education staff and education institutions. For the dissemination of
outcomes, training inthe use o f evaluation to improve the quality o f education will be required.

                                                - 42 -

The information to be included in the Quality Evaluation System will be classified as shown in the following
diagram:




                                                    L                           I

                                                 I                             I                      1



 Basicconpetencies-Grades5 &   Teacherperfomam                    Leamingresources    Studentcontext(NSE)
 Cjtizencorrpetenaes           Teachingstaff perfomam             Infrastructure      Institutionalmtext
 Scientific thought            Institutjonalselfevaluation        Faalities           Mniapalcontext
 FTeschd                       Teachingpractices
 Stateexam (ICFES)             Sdld mnagemnt
 Personalsklls                 FTd. sector-WetyRds.
 Internaleffiaency            %trance toeducationcar=


The following sub-component activities will be financed by the project:

Instrument design: Competency tests for students, teachers and teaching staff, as well as questionnaires and
other data collection instruments necessary to garner the necessary information for quality enhancement
activities will be designed by external consultants/finns inpartnership with SEC.
Information gathering: Activities dealing with collecting data and information will come either from primary
sources, derived from the application o f instruments (see above), or from secondary sources, such as the
ICFES State exams, existing internal efficiency indicators, and the data information provided by this Project's
monitoring and evaluation system and other components. These data sources will be used to provide constant
feedback on quality improvements.

Analysis: Based on test results, the Department Evaluation System would develop reports that include
different forms o f classifications according to the topics applied and analyzed. The reports on results will have
two components: a quantitative component presenting frequency data, group parameters, total quantities and
percentages, and a qualitative, analytical component. As the evaluation system advances it will systematically
establish linksbetween the results and their relationship to student achievement. .

Use and Dissemination: The dissemination o f outcomes i s one o f the key activities o f the Quality Evaluation
System so that it functions to inform decision-making in the sector and promotes the design and
implementation o f sound improvement plans. The system will also involve the mayors, secretaries o f
education, mass media, school principals, teachers, parents, students and trade unions that are among the
target population groups for the different project intervention strategies.

Project Component 3 US$1.06 million
                            -
Component 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would fully fund the
P C U including the costs o f consultants working inthe PCU, perdeim, training, transportation, equipment, and
other administrative expenses that are incurred duringthe implementation period o f the project.




                                                         - 43 -

3.1 Project Administration

Description
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established under the SEC and will be responsible for overall
project coordination, working in close coordination with the line departments within SEC. The PCU will be
responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluating the project. A Government Decree will be submitted to
the Bank adopting the PCU before negotiations The PCU will: (i)develop the administrative and technical
procedures to assure quality improvements o f education through the administrative, financial and pedagogical
management o f the schools and the decentralized operation o f the education system; and (ii)     be directly
responsible for the technical aspects o f the competitive sub-projects.

Implementation
With the support of the PCU the Secretariat of Education (SEC) will be responsible for implementing the
project, establishing links with the office o f the Governor as well as with the Planning and Financial
Secretariats o f the Department. The line units within the SEC responsible for the implementation o f the sub-
components are: The Directorate of School Organization for strengthening the administrative, financial and
management practices o f the schools' management teams; the Directoratefor the Enhancement of Education
Qualig for improving pedagogical practices, providing adequate instructional resources and evaluating the
quality o f education; the Directorate of Territorial Support for strengthening the capacity o f the
municipalities, and the Administrative and Financial Directorate for administering the competitive sub-
projects establishing strategic partnerships between the schools, the productive sectors.




                                                - 44 -

                                      Governor's Office

                                                                     Office of Departmental
  Budget, Disbursementsflow,                                                 Planning
         status of funds                                           Developmentplans, projects


                                                  ~




                Legal Office                                     Office of Planning
                Procurement                                     InformationSystems,

                                                            I




 Promotion of Quality
    in Education
 PedagogicalPractices,    --1
  Learning Resources,
  Quality Evaluation,
     Frirrrntinnnl                    Coordination Unit   -----                 Office of

I                       l    !  ----- Project(Coordinator
                                              P W                          Administrative and
 School Organization         I
                             I                                             Financial Director
   Managementand             I
                            -L-------                     ----------          Flow of funds,
 Administration Practice     I
                             I
                             I                                             accounting,financial,
                                                                             control, budget
                                                                               operations


     Partnerships,
   educationaland
       municipal
    administration




                                       Schoolsand Municipalities




                                        - 45 -

3.2. Project Monitoring and Evaluation

Description
This sub-component would finance the costs o f monitoring and evaluating project activities (impact
evaluation study, procurement assessments, audits, etc) ensuring that they are implemented in accordance
with the stipulated guidelines and procedures. Project monitoring will employ instruments and mechanisms
to guarantee the implementation o f project activities, as well as identify and help address difficulties in
implementation. Project evaluation will have the objective o f measuring and verifying that project activities
are producing the anticipated results and achieving the objectives o f the project.         The means by which
monitoring and evaluation will be carried out include: progress reports, annual reports, a mid-term impact
evaluation report, a report evaluating successful indicators, external audits, and a final impact report.

Implementation
The SEC will be responsible for monitoring the project. To this end a baseline study (information on access,
quality, efficiency) will be carried out at the end o f the first semester o f the project implementation period,
and the SEC will contract and collaborate with an outside agency to design and implement studies that
evaluate progress and final impact, taking into account the key performance and output indicators outlined in
the project description.

The impact evaluation study i s intended to determine the effect o f project interventions on the achieved
results controlling for factors unrelated to the project. To that end, the study will focus on the comparison
between the results obtained by the schools in the 50 targeted municipalities and those reached by the
municipalities selected for the control group (to be determined inthe study design).




                                               - 46 -

                                            Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
                       COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

                                                                                                   Foreign
                                                                                                 US $million
                                                                                                      1.70             14.02
Management
2. Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External                      2.67             0.42               3.09
Efficiency
3. Administration and Monitoring                                                     0.83             0.14               0.97
TotalBaselineCost                                                                   15.82             2.26             18.08
  PhysicalContingencies                                                              0.93             0.12               1.05
  Price Contingencies                                                                 1.85            0.27               2.12
TotalProjectCosts1                                                                  18.60             2.65             21.25
                                                                                                      0.15               0.15
TotalFinancingRequired                                                              18.60             2.80             21.40

The Bank will finance 70% of the total amount for this project. Boththe percentage and the loan amount fall
within the rolling 3 year local cost financial limits for projects in Colombia.




Training




 Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (LJSSm)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 21.4 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost
sharing ratio i s 70.09% o f total project cost net of taxes.




                                                       - 47 -

                                 Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                     COLOMBIA: Cundinamarca EducationQualityImprovement

Background

The main objective of the Cundinamarca Education Improvement Project is to improve the level o f academic
achievement by primary and secondary students in the Department through improving the relevance and
quality o f teaching, thereby encouraging students not to drop out and to remain in school longer and to
improve their suitability to enter the labor market.

The uroiect has three main comuonents:

        Improving School Management to Enhance Education Quality and Relevance: This component
would support changes to school management and practices in accordance with new legislation and
department development plans that seek quality and relevance improvements as well as the identification and
implementation o f schookommunity activities to support education for peace projects designed to mitigate
the incidence o f violence and conflicts. The component consists o f the following four sub-components: (i)
improving the administrative, financial and management practices o f participating school management teams;
(ii)improving pedagogical practices; (iii)   providing adequate instructional resources; and (iv) establishing
strategic partnerships between the schools, the productive sectors and civil society.

        Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External Efficiency. This component would
strengthen the institutional and management capacity o f the Cundinamarca Education Secretariat and the
municipalities. The objective o f this project i s to improve the overall efficiency o f the Cundinamarca
education system.     The component consists of the following two sub-components: (i)Strengthening
Department and Municipal education management; and (ii)      Designing and implementing a Quality Evaluation
System at the Departmentallevel.

        Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would fdly hnd the PCU
including the costs o f consultants working in the PCU, transportation, equipment, and other administrative
expenses that are incurred duringthe implementation period o f the project. This component aims to improve
the technical, administrative, financial management and evaluation capabilities o f the Secretariat.

Countrv Assistance Strategy and Sector Returns

This project contributes to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy objective o f supporting the government's
efforts to achieve economic development as a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for peace.         More
specifically, the project contributes to the Bank's focus on (a) achieving fast and sustainable growth - by
increasing investment in quality human capital - and (b) sharing the fruits o f growth -by increasingaccess to
human capital by the poor and rural inhabitants - and (c) building efficient, accountable and transparent
governance - by supporting in an innovative manner educational management expertise in an important
Department in the country, thus making Cundinamarca a pilot for transforming education service delivery in
Colombia -thus piloting an innovative interventionwith important demonstration effects.

The returns to education in Colombia overall are high and increasing. The returns to primary education,
estimated at 8.6 percent for 2000, have been increasing over time (from 7.4 percent in 1982). The returns to
secondary education are lower at 7.7 percent. However, as more people complete secondary over time, access
to higher education increases, where the returns are considerable. In 2000, the returns to higher education
were over 18 percent. The overall rate o f return has increased over time, from 8 percent in 1982 to over 11
percent in2000. Thus, there i s considerable incentive for investing ineducation in Colombia.


                                               - 48 -

Summary ofBenefitsand Costs:

Cost-Benefit Analvsis o f Proiect

Impact o f Educationon Income

As an education system undergoes improvement in pedagogy and relevance, it is reasonable to expect a
decrease in school dropouts, a decrease in grade repetition and, hence, an increase in average schooling. The
average schooling (average years attending an educational institution) has a clear relation with the conditions
inthe labor market.

InColombia, the source frequently usedto analyze the effect ofeducation on income is the householdsurvey
conducted by the Colombian Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica (Colombian Census
Bureau -- DANE). The most complete and recent analysis o f this information was carried out by the
Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (National Planning Bureau         - NPB, DNP Bulletin SISD #27, 2000.).
This analysis calculated an income function that included among its independent variables the levels o f
education of the work force.

The form o f the income hnction calculated i s the following:

Iny =bO b1Educ +b2Exper +b3Exper2 +b4Z +m
         +

Where "y" i s the labor income, "bo" i s the total number o f grades achieved, "bl" i s the years o f schooling,
"Exper" i s age minus schooling minus six, "Z" i s a vector o f the characteristics o f the persons, and "m" i s the
residual.

The characteristics o f the persons include the number o f hours worked a month and a set o f binary variables
such as the sex o f the person, migration, employment and socioeconomic status. The following specification
was used:    male = 1, female = 0; native = 1, immigrant = 0; permanent employment = 1, part time
employment = 0; work and schooling at the same time = 0, and only work = 1. The alternative specifications
also include variables on the extent o f schooling or training reached, such as a complete high school or
college education.

The model was runfor workers incities and rural areas. The results o fthese models are presentedbelow.




                                               - 49 -

                          Table 1. Income Function for Urban Areas




                                      Source:DNP-Bulletin27 SISD


      I                    Table 2. Income Function for Rural Areas
             Variables      I   1978      I  1991    I   1993  I   1995    I  1997 I   1999




                                      Source:DNP-Bulletin27 SISD

The coefficient o f the "grades approved" (grades passed) variable is similar to the average internal
performance rate and can be interpreted as a the percentage rate o f change of an individual's income ifhidher
education increases by one year. It i s observed that the performance rate i s close to 11.5% for urban workers
and 9.5% for rural workers.

With the household survey, the DNP also calculated the average income o f Colombian workers
(Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, DNJP Bulletin SISD #3 1,December 2001), according to the extent
o f their education. The results o f this exercise are presented inthe table below.

                           Table 3. Average Monthly Income by Extent o f Education
                                        (Constant 2002 Thousands o f Pesos)

     Extent of                 Urban                              Rural                        Total
     education           1998              2000            1998           2000          1998          2000




                                                 - 50 -

If the incremental return to an additional year of education is 11.5% for urban areas, a 9.5% rate for rural
areas, a 12% discount rate, and the average monthly income for 2000 are applied, it i s possible to value the
greater income attributable to one more year o f education. Ifthe assumption i s made that an individual begins
to work at age 20 for the next 40 years, the net present value o f the incremental income for each additional
year o f primary education i s $239,000 inurban areas and $109,000 inrural areas. Ifthe analysis i s carried out
for an urban worker with an additional year o f secondary school, the present value o f the increase in income
will be $452,000.    If a rural worker with the same extent of education adds one more year of high school
education, the present value o f hidher income will increase by $207,000.

MainAssumptions:

Comparing Costs and Benefits

Inorder to measure the value o f the Cundinamarca Education Improvement Project, a fifty-year cost-benefit
flow was constructed. The reason for the length o f the flow i s that students benefiting from the improvement
will enter the labor market in six years for entering secondary school students and in ten years for entering
primary school students. Each cohort will then work for 40 years. The analysis was carried out for six
cohorts from 2009 through 2014.

In order to facilitate the analysis, it was assumed that there would no demographic growth. Furthermore, in
order to establish the benefiting population, only the students o f public schools o f the department were used,
considering that one fifth o f primary students and one sixth o f High School students leave the educational
system (The number o f students that leave the system each year was found by applying the criteria found in
the tuition information o f public schools.. Students from private institutions were omitted, since the actions o f
the project are aimed at public schools. With this in mind, it i s expected that the benefiting population will
follow the pattern in the table below. It i s observed that the beneficiaries follow an arithmetic series whose
common term i s the number o f graduates. If demographic growth i s considered, the series i s even more
explosive; hence, the conservative assumption regardingbeneficiaries i s adequate for the evaluation exercise.

                                        Table 4. Projection o f Beneficiaries




                                             I         I          I          I
StudentsbenefitedfromurbanPrimary                                            I         I
                                                                               26.391  I         I
                                                                                         52.782  I          I
                                                                                                    79.174

Studentsbenefitedfromrural Primary                                           I 20.131  I 40.262  I  60.394

StudentsbenefitedfromurbanSecondary             19.332    39.463      59.595   79.726    99.857   119.988

Studentsbenefitedfromrural Secondary             6.716    26.048     45.380    64.713    84.045   103.377




                                                - 51 -

 Once the projection of beneficiaries has been established, the flow o f benefits can be calculated. For the
 analysis, it i s assumed that with the project each student will receive one additional year o f education. The
 increase in income as a consequence o f greater academic preparation can then be calculated as illustrated in
 the table below.

                                    Table 5. Increase inIncome per Beneficiary

                                     A: Average                                                    D:A*B*12*C
          Beneficiaries                monthly          B:Additional          C:Profitability     Greater annual
                                        income         schooling(years)            rate                income
                                   (thousands of)                                                  (thousands of)
 Students inurban Primary                290                   1                 0,1150                  33
 Students inrural Primary                 164                  1                 0,0950                  16
 Students inurban Secondary              397                   1                 0,1150                  46
 Students inrural Secondary              221                   1                 0,0950                  21


 Ifthe projectednumber ofbeneficiaries ismultipliedbythe expectedincrease inincome, the total benefit of
 the project may be obtained.

                                   Table 6. Projection o f Benefits (Million Pesos)

             Impactsof the project                  2009     2010          2011     2012        2013       2014
 Greater income for urban Primary students                                           10.577      21.155    31.732
 Greater income for rural Primary students                                            3.767       7.534    11.301
 Greater income for urban Secondary                10.600    21.637        32.675   43.713       54.751    65.789
 students
IGreater income for rural Secondary                 1.690     6.554        11.418    16.281      21.145    26.009
 students
 Source: own calculations

 The flow of benefits can also be expressedinpresent value. It i s assumed that the base year or year zero i s
 2002 and that the discount rate i s 12%.

                                 Table 7. Present Value o f Benefits (Million Pesos)

                                 Impactsof the project                           NPV
                   Greater income for urban Primary students                        281.318
                   Greater income for rural Primary students                        100.185
                   Greater income for urban Secondary students                      416.129
                   Greater income for rural Secondary students                      170.871
                                                               TOTAL.               968.502


 The present value of the costs of the project i s estimated at $60.225 million pesos. Given the assumptions
 about benefits, the rounded net present value o f the project i s $908.277 million This results in a cost-benefit
 ratio o f 16, and an internalrate of return o f 36%. The project i s thus economically quitejustifiable.




                                                   -52 -

                                                                            2007-
                  Item             2003      2004       2005         2006   2052        PV

        Project expense           11.575    22.806     19.427       13.090  1.925     60.225




Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
All the graduates o f the educational system will not necessarily perceive similar increases in income, even
though if they might have stayed the same time in school. Furthermore, the alternative o f obtaining the total
increase in income on average i s optimistic. Hence, different capturing simulations on the greater income for
an additional year o f schooling were carried out. In this case, the base scenario mentioned earlier captures a
100%capture o f greater income.
Since the project may not be available in all municipalities, it i s appropriate to revise the assumption o f the
initial number o f students benefited. Hence, direct percentages were applied on the number of benefiting
students.

The following table shows the results o f the sensitivity analysis for the cost benefit ratio and the internal
revenue rate.

Thus, even with several unfavorable assumptions in the sensitivity analysis, the project remains viable in all
butthe most extreme case.

                                              Table 9
 Sensitivityof cost-benefit ratio to greater income andto benefitingpopulation
                                       Percentage of benefiting students
               1,OI  100%   1 75%   I 50%    I 25%    I  20%      I 15%   I10%   I   5%




             10%       1,61    1,21    0,80     0,40  I     0,32      0,24I 0,16 I   0,08
             5%        0,80    0,60    0,40     0,20  I     0,16      0,12I 0,08 I   0,04
                                   Source: Own calculations




                                              - 53 -

                                               Table 10




Source: Owncalculations

As shown inthe two previous tables, if the assumption that all the students capture all the wage increase for
an increase in schooling i s maintained, adequately providing for only 7% o f the students i s enough for the
project to be profitable. Alternatively, if the totality o f the students are provided for, it i s enough for them to
capture only 7% o f the expected increases in their income for the project to be viable from an economic point
o f view. In order for the project to be unprofitable, it i s necessary to simultaneously and considerably reduce
the assumptions o f student coverage and their success in the labor market. Thus, for example, if the project
focuses on only 25% o f students in public schools, it i s required that the students only perceive a quarter o f
the benefits originated from the greater income inorder for it to still be attractive.




                                                 - 54 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
                  COLOMBIA: Cundinamarca Education Quality Tmprovement
                                     Years Ending




 Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs




Financing
  IBRD/IDA                    2.2       4.1      4.6      4.2    0.0   0.0   0.0
  Government                  0.9       1.8      2.0      1.8    0.0   0.0   0.0
      Central                 0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
      Provincial              0.9       1.8      2.0      1.8    0.0   0.0    0.0
   Co-financiers              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
User FeesBeneficiaries        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Other                         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Total Project Financing       3.1       5.9      6.6      6.0    0.0   0.0   0.0




Total Financing Required
Project Costs
   Investment Costs           0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0
   Recurrent Costs            0.5     0.8        1.o     0.9     0.0    0.0  0.0
Total Project Costs           0.5     0.8        1.o     0.9     0.0    0.0  0.0
               Front-end fee  0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0
Total Financing               0.5     0.8        1.o     0.9     0.0   0.0   0.0

Financing
   IBRD/TDA                   0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0  0.0
   Government                 0.5     0.8        1.o     0.9     0.0    0.0  0.0
       Central                0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0  0.0
      Provincial              0.5     0.8        1.0     0.9     0.0    0.0  0.0
                                                      1

   Co-financiers              0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0  0.0
User FeedBeneficiaries        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0  0.0
Other                         0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0  0.0
  Total Project Financing     0.5     0.8        1.o     0.9     0.0    0.0  0.0




                                   - 55 -

Main assumptions:

Analysis o f Education Expenditures inthe Department o f Cundinamarca

Education financing under Law 715 (2001). In 2001, L a w 715 governing educational competencies and
resources was modified.      The reform combined education resources into a single category, the General
Participation System (Sistema General de Participaciones, GPS) that became effective in 2002. Eligible
expenditures from the GPS include: (a) salaries for teachers, directors and administrative personnel in
education institutions: (b) payroll contributions and social services; (c) payment for administrative support;

with non-state entities for education services; (9 provision o f educational materials; and (g) construction o f
(d) spending for public services and maintenance of institutions; (e) school transport, subsidies and contracts

infrastructure and debt servicing. The resources for the education sector from the GPS are distributed among
departments, districts, certified municipalities (those with more than 100,000 inhabitants) and non-certified
municipalities.   Currently, a transition period (2002-2003) i s in effect to allow institutions to organize
themselves in accordance with the Law. Once the necessary adjustments are made, resource allocation will
be based on enrolment figures.

Analysis o fExpenditures

From 1994-2000, $2.4 billion pesos (constant 2002) were allocated to the education sector in the Department
o f Cundinamarca from transfers and the GPS. On average, the annual education expenses o f the department
were $266,545 millions pesos (constant 2002). These hnds were used to remunerate teachers, directors and
administrative staff and all additional expenses associated with labor, such as allowances, bonuses, etc. (Table
1).




 LK=Localized Fiscal
 ECF= Education Compensation

On average, Colombia transferred $266,545 million pesos (constant 2002) to the Department for the provision
o f education services. The average annual growth for the period was 4.5% inreal terms, however, for 2002 a
reduction in real terms o f 4% was observed.        Education sector services were originally financed with
resources from the Situado Fiscal (SF); by 2001, the FEC's transfers were larger than those o f the SF, but
declined dramatically in 2002 when the transition period became effective.           As shown, the resources
channeled through the SF doubled, and those for the FEC fell almost six times.            The social provision
agreements account for, on average, 9.1% o f the sector's total resources for the period o f analysis and
employee benefits represent around 13% o f total services. The Department has financed education programs




                                               - 56 -

with its own resources, concentrating on the expansion and improvement o f infrastructure and buying
furniture and pedagogical material. This complementary financing i s around $30,000 million pesos annually.

Department expenses by levels. The Secretary o f Education o f the department provided the expense execution
report by level of education for 1997-2002 to the consultants. With this information as a base, this section
presents a brief description o f the composition o f the expenses ineducation between the central administration
and the expenses by level o f education.

                    Table 2. Department`s expenses for administration and education level




Source: Secretaria de Educacion de Cundinamarca. Calculations by the consultants

The table shows that o f the $266,545 million pesos (constant 2002) that the department provides the
education sector, 5%, on average, goes towards administrative expenses, 3% to preschool, 58% to primary,
and 35% to High School. The composition o f expenses does not vary substantially from one year to another,
thus keeping the percentages by levels. Inthe indicator section, an analysis o fthe composition of expenses in
education by the level o f education per student i s carried out.

Municipal expenses. Municipal funding includes: (a) Compulsory funding: 30% o f Municipal Participation
(MP); (b) Freefunding: funds from the MP that can be freely designated; (c) Ownfunding: the municipalities
own resources from its current/cash/liquid revenues; (d) Loans; (e) Co-financing: education sector projects
implemented by the municipalities and co-financed through a Social Investment Fund; (f) Royalties: funds
from the National Royalty Fund designated for financing education projects; (g) Situado: funds from the SF
to finance operational expenses; (h) Department funds: resources transferred from the department to the
municipalities; and (i)other.

Types o f expenditures include: construction, remodeling and maintenance, provision of didactic materials,
subsidies, teacher pay, teacher social security benefits, debt payment for physical investment in the sector,
informal education, and other programs.

The sector designated an annual average o f $116,235 million pesos (constant 2002), equivalent to 25% o f
total investments in the municipalities (Table 2). Average annual real growth was 3.2%, one point below the
Department's growth rate. Similar to the Department, expenditures show a decline in the last year o f the
period studied (2000).    According to evaluations by the Ministry o f Education in 2000, a real decrease o f
14.1% i s expected this year in the sector's budget due to the country's fiscal situation. Inthe Department of
Cundinamarca, this decrease is 7% for the municipalities.

Investment by sectors (rural and urban) has remained steady at an average o f 51.6% for the rural sector and
48.3% for the urban sector. According to information from DANE,43% o f the population i s rural.




                                               - 57 -

                    1994       1995        1996         1997        1998       1999        2000       Average     (YO)
Education
 Sector              103,639   85,388     125,729      119,793     115,196    138,480     125,417       116,235    2.23

 Total Municipal
 Investment          463,495  346,123     586,121      501,867     404,747    523,468     510,750      476,653     1.63

 Percent of
 Investment               22        25          21          24          28          26          25         24.5

Urban (%)                 531       40  I       50  I       49  I       50  I       49  I       48         48.4
 Rural (%)                4 j       60  I       50  I       51  I       50  1       51  I       52  1I     51.6II

    Table 4. Cundinamarca Department: Education Investments in Municipalities by source o f fimding

                    1994       1995        1996        1997         1998       1999        zoo0       Average   Percent
Compulsory        56,972      65,815      90,791      75,873      71,402      92,469      91,341       77,809     66.94
 Free or                         891       3,811       1,758       2,023       3,060       1,485        1,86 1     1.60




    Source: Municipal Budgets, calculations by consultancy

O f total expenditures for education, municipal transfers account for 69% o f resources, the department for
11%, and the municipality, 7.5%. Only 1.6% o f the expenditures are financed with resources from the "free"
Municipal Participations with the remaining financed from other sources.




Informal                               789         924          625      1,689       1,537        795   18.14   1.0
Education
Other Programs   5,182    9,857      7,902       8,232       10,021     15,552      10,994      9,677   13.35   8.0
Total           98,474   84,695     125,451     133,112     115,196    138,480     125,417    117,261    4.11  100.




                                                   - 58 -

Table 5 shows that in education, 44% o f expenses correspond to capital expenses and 66% correspond to
current expenses.    These are distributed as follows: provision o f teaching materials (11%), payment and
benefits to teaching personnel (29%), subsidy financing (6%), and the remaining 54% to debt servicing and
other programs.

Forty four percent o f expenses in the sector correspond to investment in construction which reflects a
decrease inthe annual average investment inconstruction by 11%inreal terms.

Eleven percent o f total expenditures were invested in teaching materials; this expense has increased by 2%
per year, on par with the average growth rate o f the population in the department (1.91%). Ifthis growth rate
i s considered for enrolled students, it can be concluded that the expense per student has not changed.

Education subsidies make up 6% o f the sector's expenses, and have shown a high annual increase o f 21.8%.
The payment o f personnel expenses (teachers and social security) i s 29% o f reported expenditures for the
municipalities.

Finally, debt servicing represents 1% o f total expenditure while informal education and other programs
account for 9% o f resources with informal education showing a significant annual increase o f 18%.

More than half o f the resources from Law 60 were allocated for infrastructure and the provision o f material in
the period studied. O f this, 32% were for teachers' salaries. Between 1995 and 2000, 40% o f these resources
were designated for construction and remodeling o f infrastructure; 29% for teachers' salaries; 17% to finance
programs; and 7% for materials. As for the department's resources, they did not behave homogeneously over
the time period studied, with the exception o f those funds designated to financing infrastructure construction.
Table 5 shows the allocation o f these resources by type o f expenditure.

  Table 6: Expenditures inthe Department and Municipalities o f Cundinamarca with departmental




Approximately 50% o f the resources transferred from the department were allocated to financing construction
and remodeling o f education infrastructure inthe department's municipalities, 21% to finance subsidies, 11%
to pay teachers, and the remaining 11%to finance other programs.

ExpenditureIndicators
This section presents a brief analysis o f the expenditure indicators for education in the Department o f
Cundinamarca in2000, based on the number o f students and teachers (Table 6, by sector).




                                                 - 59 -

Table 7. Students and teachers in Cundinamarca, 2000

                               Official       Unofficial
     Number o f Students       398,560         128,800
     Number o f teachers        15,798          7,452


Expenditures made by the department in 2000 for teachers, including resources provided by the Situado
Fiscal, by the ECF, and by social provision agreements reached $1,827,368 pesos monthly, including other
benefits.

Table 8. Expenditure per Student, 2000

                                        Expenditure 2000         Cost per Student      Percent
                                        (millions $2002)          (pesos per year)
Construction and remodeling                          49,3 10                123,720         14.0
Teaching Materials                                    8,577                  21,520          2.0
Personnel                                          304.582                  764.208        83.0
 Infrastructuredebt service                           2,364                   5,932          1.o
Total                                              364,833                  915,379        100.0
Source: Calculations by consultant

InCundinamarca, the average cost per student is 915,370 pesos a year (Ifthe analysis is carried out by level
o f education and the composition o f students enrolled i s similar to the expenses per level @reschool 2.31%,
primary 58.43%, Middle School 39.26%, then the average cost per student does not change). Of this cost,
83% went to pay personnel, 15% for infrastructure, and 2% for the provision o f teaching materials. In total,
the capital expense per student i s $123,170 per year, and the current expense i s 791,659. Of the current
expenses, 97% correspondto the payment o f wages o f administrative personnel and teachers.

School tuition fees, which are not reported in Colombia, are used to purchase books and other learning
materials. In addition, parents must finance additional books and tools directly. According to the current
legislation, the department imposes caps on the billing o f tuition and other expenses like janitors, security,
report card systematization, and general maintenance.




                                    Minimum                Maximum
 Preeschool and primary                                                             26.500
 Middle School                         43.460                    53.000             53.000



Conclusions

Cundinamarca allocates on average 370,000 million pesos (constant 2002 pesos) each year for education.
Resources from the department and expenditures for teachers and social security pertaining to the
municipalities account for 78% o f total resources, investments account for 17%, and financing o f subsidies,
servicing debt and other programs account for 5%. The distribution o f expenditures between urban and rural
zones i s roughly equivalent (48% urban, 52% rural), and i s similar to the distribution in the department.




                                              - 60 -

Table 7. Students and teachers in Cundinamarca, 2000

                               Official       Unofficial
     Number o f Students       398,560         128,800
     Number o f teachers        15,798         7,452


Expenditures made by the department in 2000 for teachers, including resources provided by the Situado
Fiscal, by the ECF, and by social provision agreements reached $1,827,368 pesos monthly, including other
benefits.

Table 8. Expenditure per Student, 2000

                                        Expenditure 2000         Cost per Student      Percent
                                        (millions $2002)          (pesos per year)
Constructionand remodeling                          49,3 10                 123,720         14.0
Teaching Materials                                    8,577                  21,520          2.0
Personnel                                          304,582                  764,208         83.0
Infrastructure debt service                          2,364                    5,932          1.o
Total                                              364,833                  915,379        100.0
Source: Calculations by consultant

InCundinamarca, the average cost per student is 915,370 pesos a year (Ifthe analysis is carriedout by level
o f education and the composition o f students enrolled i s similar to the expenses per level (preschool 2.31%,
primary 58.43%, Middle School 39.26%, then the average cost per student does not change). Of this cost,
83% went to pay personnel, 15% for infrastructure, and 2% for the provision o f teaching materials. Intotal,
the capital expense per student i s $123,170 per year, and the current expense i s 791,659. O f the current
expenses, 97% correspond to the payment o f wages o f administrative personnel and teachers.

School tuition fees, which are not reported in Colombia, are used to purchase books and other learning
materials. In addition, parents must finance additional books and tools directly. According to the current
legislation, the department imposes caps on the billing o f tuition and other expenses like janitors, security,
report card systematization, and general maintenance.



                                                 Tuition
                                    Minimum                Maximum             Other billing

 Preeschool and primary                                                             26.500
 Middle School                         43.460                    53.000             53.000
Source Regulations o fthe Secretaria de Educacion

Conclusions

Cundinamarca allocates on average 370,000 million pesos (constant 2002 pesos) each year for education.
Resources from the department and expenditures for teachers and social security pertaining to the
municipalities account for 78% o f total resources, investments account for 17%, and financing o f subsidies,
servicing debt and other programs account for 5%. The distribution o f expenditures between urban and rural
zones i s roughly equivalent (48% urban, 52% rural), and i s similar to the distribution in the department.




                                              - 60 -

Expenditures in the sector experienced an average increase in real terms of approximately 3% per year
between 1994 and 2000.

FiscalImpact

Project Costs

Total project costs are estimated at $21.4 million, of which 70% will be financed by the World Bank and 30%
by the Department of Cundinamarca. Table 10presents the project costs.

                                  Table 10:Project Costs by Component ($ millions)

 Component and sub component                                       Bank          Department      Total
 1. Improving School Managementto EnhanceQuality and                   11.55             4.95          16.5
 Relevance
    Strengtheningadministrative, financial andmanagement                 2.1              0.9            3.0
practices ofthe schools managementteams
    ImprovingPedagogicalPractices                                        2.3              1.o            3.3
    Establishing strategic partnershipsbetweenthe schools, the            1.5             0.6            2.1
productive sectors & civil society
     Providing adequate instructional resources                          5.5              2.3            7.8
 2. InstitutionalStrengtheningto Improve Internal and External           2.5              1.1            3.6

    Education Quality Evaluation System                                   1.1            0.45          1.55
    Department and Municipal ManagementCapacity                         0.85   II        0.36II          1.2
    Educational and Statistical Indicators                               0.55            0.29          0.85
 3. Project Administration and Monitoring                                0.8             0.34          1.14
                                                     Front endfee        0.15                          0.15
 Total Cost (excluding contingencies andproject administration)          15.0             6.4   21.4 (21.39)


                               Table 11: Project Costs by Component (% o f finding)

I                Componentand sub component                      I World      I  Department I   Total    I




Source: Secretary of Education o f Cundinamarca


                                                  - 61 -

The "improving school management" component will receive the lion's share o f the budget, with more than
three quarters o f project funds being allocated towards meeting its objectives. Tables 10 and 11 present the
distribution across components. The project interventions and activities will take place from 2003 to 2007,
with greater emphasis on 2004 to 2005.

                                       Table 12: Investment Outline (million USD)

  Source                                   2003           2004          2005       2006          Total
 Total Project                               3.1           5.9            6.5       5.9          21.4
 World Bank Loan                            2.2            4.1            4.5       4.2          15.0
 Department Counterpart                     0.9             1.8           2.0       1.7           6.4


The Secretary o f Education believes that duringthe years the project will be inplace nearly 3.2 milliondollars
(15% o f the hnds) will correspond to recurring costs. However, for the subsequent years it has not yet
identified which project activities will be permanently adopted after the planned investments are made. As a
conservative evaluation, probable recurring costs related to the committed annual spending o f each
subcomponent are presented in Table 11. This hypothesis, shown in Table 11, implies that once the
investment phase for 2006 i s concluded, the department will need to destine US$630.000 a year in order to
guarantee the compliance o f the long-term objectives.

                                          Table 13: Annual Recurrent Costs




     Education Quality Evaluation System                                    50.0             194
     Departmental and Municipal Management Capacity                         15.0             48
     Educational and Statistical Indicators                                 50.0             44
  3. Project Administration and Monitoring                                  0.0               0
      Project Monitoring and Evaluation System                              0.0               0
      Project administration and Finances                                   0.0               0
                                                        Total Cost          11.8             631


Cundinamarca's Finances Revenue. Graph A illustrates the compositioddistribution o f Cundinamarca's
principle sources o f revenue in recent years. As can be seen, its sources o f financing are stable and as
described below, the department has maintained an excellent balance in terms o f collection, despite
unfavorable macroeconomic conditions. This achievement i s doubly noteworthy if one keeps inmindthe fact
that traditional revenues o f departments are affected by smuggling/corruption resulting in little dynamic
behavior.



                                                  - 62 -

   GraphA. IncomeDistributionfor Cundinamarca




    30%

    20%

    10%
    -.
                1,999            2,000          2,001          2,002

      osGP Education            OSGP Heanh            liquor
      k33AutomobllesNehiCles    BBeer                 UTobaCco
         RegstntionlTIIles      .Other Income



Transfers from the General Participatory svstem to education and health. This transfer i s constitutionally
based, permitting the central government to make bank drafts to departments for the provision o f health
and education services. In Cundinamarca, between 1999 and 2002, transfers for education represented
approximately 31.0% o f the income o f the department, while those for health reached close to 16.5%. If
these resources were addedto other nationaltransfers, it was found that half o fthe department's financing
depended on transfers from the central government. However, compared with other departments in the
country, its dependency on transfers was below average.

Liquor Revenue. Revenue from liquor i s composed o f various taxes and incomes, which are basically
from taxes on domestic and imported distilled liquor, wine and other alcoholic beverages. This income
also groups together the rights departments are entitled to in the final price o f liquor. At the same time,
this revenue tends to include income from departments where liquor companies enjoy a monopoly in the
production o f hard liquor. In Cundinamarca roughly 83% o f the income associated with liquor comes
from the liquor companies' profits. From 1999-2002,revenue from liquor represented approximately 13%
o f all income to Cundinamarca. Inonly 4 years, this income has grown by 50%. Notwithstanding, many
studies suggest the long-term trend will be less than the growth rate o f the economy, even though the
income elasticity i s less than one.

Beer Revenue. The tax on beer represented 8.3% o f Cundinamarca's revenue between 1999 and 2002.
Like liquor revenues, beer revenues have increased over 50% over the four-year period. However, similar
to liquor revenues, future growth i s estimated to be less dynamic than that o fthe economy.

Revenue from Registration and Official Notation. This tax i s related to the registration o f housing
transactions and contracts from the office o f public instruments.         Unlike the taxes based on the
consumption o f liquor and tobacco, this revenue's activity i s expected to be greater than that o f the
economy. During 1999-2002this tax contributed7.8% o f total revenue.

Automobile and Vehicle Revenue. This includes annual payments made by automobile owners to the
department's Secretary o f Finance and i s one percent o f the commercial value o f the vehicle.         This
revenue also includes other costs related to transactions costs, like transfer o f title. Income from this tax
accounted for 5% o f Cundinamarca's revenue. Collection in this area was adversely affected by the
country's economic situation and appears to be unstable.




                                                     - 63 -

   Tobacco Revenue. Taxes from cigarettes and tobacco consumption account for 3% o f departmental
   revenue and has shown favorable growth over the last years.

   Other Income. Cundinamarca possessesother sources o f revenue, such as royalties from mining, taxes on
   gasoline, emission o f stamps, sale o f services, and so on. All together, these revenues were 16% o f the
   department's income from 1999-2002.

   Exuenditures. The department's expenditures, like its revenues, also show stability. With the exception
   o f 1999, during which there was an unusual expenditure in labor transfers as a consequence o f the
   enactment o f a law mandating departments make special provisions to pension funds. Furthermore, the
   requirement to use transfers from the General Participant System, almost half o f total resources in
    education and health, left little room for other expenditures (see Graph B).

      GraphB. Compositionof CostsinCundinamarca


      100%




       60%



       40%



       20%



        0%
               1999               2000        2001         2002




In comparing revenue to expenditures over the last few years, expenditures have grown at a slower rate,
indicatingprudent management o f spending, as shown in Graph C.

Graph C.RevenuesandExpenditures




                 1999                 2000          2001          2002

                      *-Expenditures          -Revenue

Debt. Towards the end of 2002, the department owed approximately 300,000 million pesos. This situation
reflects the increasing tendency towards indebtedness, since over the last 8 years the debt ratio has multiplied
by 3 inrealterms. This behavior is illustratedinthe GraphDbelow.

GraphD.ChangeinPublicDebt, 1995-2002


       300%

       280%

       260%
       240%

       220%

       200%

       180%

       160%

       140%

       120%

       100%

        80%




For 2003 the department expects to find a net internal debt of $41.000 million and an improvement o f a
US$21.7 million dollar loan from the Inter-American Development Bank.                 This loan, which would be
disbursed duringthe 2003-2006 period, will be usedto improve the department's infrastructure, especially in
the roadnetwork and ininstitutional strengthening.

Project Financing

This section present the analysis o f Cundinamarca's finances, usinga methodology based on cash operations.
To project cash operations, the following methodology was used: Information from 2003 reflects changes
made by the department to revenues and expenditures in order to meet budget requirements of Law 788
(2002) which modified the national taxation system.            Information from 1999-2002 was submitted by
Cundinamarca's Secretary of Finances to the Republic's General Accounting office for analysis. Although
the cash expenses corresponding to transfers from the general participatory system do not strictly coincide
with revenues (thisis dueto phasingout of accounts or becausenot allresources were used), it was decidedto
balance revenues and expenditures.        Furthermore, while traditional accounting methods would put the
formation o f human capital and social investment under investments, they have been placed under current
costs since most of the funds were used to pay teacher salaries, school directors and health care personnel.
For both income as well as expenditures, provisions coming from the Constitutional reform are shown, as
such, the exchange rate grew 2% relative to inflation during 2003-2005, to 2.5% over inflation for the period
2006-2008. After this last year, it i s expected that the transfers will grow at the same pace as the GDP.

The major macroeconomic assumptions, corresponding to the most recent provisions in the National
Department of Planning, refer to the end-of-the-year indicators inTable 14.

                                   Table 14. Macroeconomic Assumptions

         Year             Domestic Inflation (YO)        RealGrowth of GDP (YO)            Exchange Rate
          1999                      9.23                            -4.20                        1,874
         2000                       8.75                            2.74                         2,229
I        2001          I            7.65               I            1.40            I            2.291           I
         2002                       6.99                            1.60                         2,865
         2003                       5.50                            2.00                         3,065
         2004                       4.50                            3.30                         3,443
         2005                       3.50                            3.70                         3,611
         2006                       3.00                            3.90


 For the years following 2006, a real increase o f 4% i s expected inGDP, domestic inflation i s expected to rise
 3%, and external inflation by 2%. Based on the last two assumptions, it i s predicted that the exchange rate
 will remainthe same from 2006 onwards.

 The flows will be projected in current pesos and later will be transformed to fixed pesos. To project the
 revenues and expenses, the following assumptions were used relating their reactionto the growth in GDP (see
 Table 15).

                              Table 15: Elasticity of Revenues and Expenditures

                Revenue or Expenditure                               GDP's Elasticity

 Timber                                                                      1.05
 Beer                                                                       0.90
 Tobacco                                                                    0.85
 Title Registration                                                          1.05
  Other Tax Revenues                                                         1.oo
  Sale of Services                                                           1
                                                                             .oo
  Occasional Income                                                          1.oo
  Contractual Income                                                         1.oo
 Financial Returns                                                           1.oo
  Non-taxable Income                                                        1.oo
                                                                             1.oo
  Cauital Income
  Operation Costs                                                            1.oo
 Transfer o f Payments                                                       1.oo
 Source: Consultancy firm's hypothesis

 As mentioned above, according to Cundinamarca's Secretary of Finance the department will receive
 disbursements for $81.397 million and will make $18,562 million in debt repayment during 2003. The new
 loan procedures do not include the disbursements o f the World Bank, but do include the first disbursement o f
 the IADB. If the loan for the education i s considered, the debt will reach $371,000 million by the end o f the
 year. For subsequent years, the debt i s expected to be paid at an average annual interest rate o f 15% and will
 be entirely repaid over the next 7 years. For the IADB loan, a payment deadline o f 15 years was used,
 beginning in2007 at a 7% interest rate o f the dollar amount outstanding balance.




                                                - 66 -

Regarding the World Bank loan, disbursements are expected to begin at the end o f the year, as shown in the
figures for Table 3. The repayment period i s 17 years, including a grace period o f 5 years. The annual interest
rate, in dollars, i s 7.12%. Each disbursement was calculated in dollars, as independent loan later will become
current pesos, usingthe projected exchange rate.

Commitments to investment expenditures are not considered differently from those made to the education
quality improvement project. Consequently, the possible surplus o f cash represents the fiscal space that the
department has for investment programs. The flows are expressed in millions o f 2002 pesos, using the price
index for deflation.

Cash Operations

Table 16 presents a summary o f the cash flow projections for the Department o f Cundinamarca, including the
impacts o fthe education project (detailed inthe annexes and usinga wider horizon than for this example). As
can be seen in Table 14, the project does not imply significant changes in the department's current financial
structure. Ifthe department maintains its current level o f debt repayment, the loan requested corresponds to
17% o f the debt at the end o f 2006.

  Table 16. Department of Cundinamarca Cash Flows (current million pesos)


  A. Ingresos Corrientes            813.229   967.361   991.809  1.018.680 1.049.924 1.082.641 1.116.423 1.136.947 1.158.25
                                                                                                                          1
  A. 1. Tributarios                 367.248   414.843   427.723   442.614   458.859   476.134   494.063    512.670 531.981
  A.2. No tributarios                15.273    19.989    20.649     21.413   22.248     23.138    24.063    25.026  26.027
  A.3. Transferencias Comentes      430.708   532.529   543.437    554.654   568.817   583.368  598.297    599.251 600.243
  B. Gastos corrientes              797.613   839.488   832.346    846.606  864.764    889.473  907.954    912.885 918.245
  B.l, Gastosde Funcionamiento      114.907   129.307   133.574    138.516   143.918   149.675   155.662   161.889 168.364
  B.2. Transferencias o pago a      235.175   122.789   126.841    131.534   136.664   142.131   147.816   153.729 159.878 I


I 8.4. Inverqibn social SGP      I  392.206 I 512.718 I




                                                     - 67 -

The capacity to generate currency surplus will continue over the long term. The only deficit in financing
appears for 2003, as a consequence of the net disbursements plannedfor this year. Inthe line item o f deposit
variations, which show the availability of funds for investment purposes, it appears that the department will
have, for the entire horizon o f analysis, resourcesto commit to government projects. Ifit chooses to maintain
its internal debt at a level similar to the current one, it will have around 150,000 millionas a minimumfor the
investment plans.

With respect to the education sector, the department hasjust dedicated around $32,000 million of its annual
resources for investment inthis sector. Therefore, the reorientation of part of this allocation towards project
objectives does not imply a greater burden to its budget. Inthe same way, the department can easily plan for
the eventual recurrent costs due to the project. Inthe years during which the debt service to the Bank will
have greater impact, the historical allocation of its own resources for education investment would allow the
loancommitments to be honored.

Debt capacity

According to Law 358 (1997), a territorial entity can freely contract loans when the operation interest to
savings ratio i s below 0.40. If the indicator i s between 0.4 and 0.6, the repayment o f debt can only be
increased duringthe following year, to the equivalent to the goal [metal of the consumer price index. At the
same time, loans cannot be contracted if the repayment indicator o f the current debt to income ratio i s above
80%.

Following the procedures established in the 1997 Law 358, the operation savings i s calculated based on
current revenues, operational costs, and transfers paid by the territorial entities.       This includes current
revenues, taxes, royalties, monetary compensation, national transfers, contributions to national taxes, balance
o f payments, and financial returns. Operational expenses include: salaries, honorariums, social services and
support to social security, which have been budgetedas investment costs.

Table 16 shows the calculation for the department's debt capacity, according to the considerations mentioned
above. As observed inTable 16, inno year does the flow indicator shows 40%; hence, the department meets
the restrictions/criteriafor obtainingloans autonomously.

Conclusionsand recommendations

While the indebtedness of the department has grown significantly in the past few years, the actual debt level
has not had a negative impact on its finances. Cundinamarca's operation interest to savings ratio rarely rises
above 0.40. This makes it legal for the Department to undertake loans under Colombian law. Further, the
department has assigned important resources of its own to finance investment in the education sector.
Therefore, it i s feasible, without altering the department's financial sustainability, to readjust its budget in
order to guarantee the counterpart funds o f the Bank loan, the debt servicing associatedwith the loan, andthe
coverage o frecurring expensescausedby the project.




                                                 - 68 -

                        Table 17 : Cundinamarca :Indicatorsof Debt (millions incurrent pesos)
                                        --?                       2006        2007        2008      2009       2010

                                         1.008.172   1.03S.6SO  1.067.555   1.100.977   1.135493  1,156,779  1.178.877

J. Gastos de funcionamiento y            783.388     803.482

                                         224.785     232.167
                                          95.076      89.242
                                          94.542      87.624
                                            0            0
                                           535         1.618
                                         365.157     345.587
                                         276.707     230.589
                                          66.785      75.831
                                          21.665      39.167
    nteresedahorro operacional            21,8%        18,6%



      ectado por inflacih                 55,7%       47,4%



                                          36,2%                  29,9%        24,4%       19,2%     14,5%      9,7%

R. Servicio de la deuda /       42,7%     42,3%                  34,8%        35,7%       31,7%     28,l%      25,0%
  ahorro operacional




                                                  - 69 -

                                    Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                      COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

Procurement

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", publishedinJanuary 1995 (revisedJanuaryIAugust 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999, January 1999 and May 2002), and
the provisions stipulatedinthe Loan Agreement.




6. Partnership Suprojects               0.00               0.00             0.42 a/                         0.42
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.30) b/                        (0.30)
                          Total         1.07               0.40             20.21      '                    21.40
                                       (0.75)             (0.28)           (14.72)                        (15.00)



Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loadIDA credit




a/  Procurement under subprojects may include procurement o f small works via three quotations (i.e.: Small works
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors inresponse to a written invitation. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the requiredwork, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully).
b/ Direct Contracting, Shopping (National and International), plus commercial practices under subprojects.
c l Consultants Services




                                                  - 70 -

The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for eachmethod, are
summarized inTable A. The threshold contract values for the use of each methodare fixed inTable B.

Procurement methods

The methods to be usedfor the procurement describedbelow, andthe estimated amounts for eachmethod, are
summarized inTable A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed inTable B.

Procurement of Goods

Identifiable goods procuredunder this project would include servers; computers; peripherials; software; office
equipment; printing and reproduction of educational, publicity campaign documents and other materials,
totaling U S $1.6 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into
bidding packages of more than $250,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive
Bidding(ICB) procedures, usingBank-issuedStandardBiddingDocuments (SBDs).

Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract, and estimated to cost less than $250,000
equivalent, may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding
documents agreed with the Bank. Under this method, all the special provisions agreed with the Colombian
Government for procurement under Bank-financedloans, grants and credits will apply.

Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$O.lO million, may be procured using shopping
(Nationalhternational) procedures basedon a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank

Selection of Consultants

Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas o f expertise: media and
publicity campaign material production; specialized training in various educational and pedagogic fields;
school pedagogic activity, quality monitoring services; municipal and regional educational strategy; public
service institution modernization; audit services, project monitoring, follow-up and evaluation; financing and
contract management; information system design, development and management; procurement under Bank-
financed projects; etc. These services are estimated to cost US$11.19million equivalent, and firms would be
selectedusingBank Standard Request for Proposals.

Firms

Short lists for consulting assignments may comprise entirely national consultants if the estimated contract
amount i s below US$200,000 equivalent, provided that national consultants have the capacity to meet the
complexity of the assignment. Almost all contracts for firms would be procuredusingQuality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) method except for some small and simple contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO
equivalent or less that would be procured usingeither selection based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ) or
Least Cost Selection (LCS).

Individuals

Specialized advisory services invarious fields up to an aggregate amount o f $2.36 million, would be provided
byindividual consultants selectedby comparison of qualifications of three candidates andhiredinaccordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines,or may be procuredon a sole
source basis with paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelineswith prior No Objection by the Bank.



                                              -71 -

Procurement underMunicipalSchoolandPartnershipSubprojects

Goods, small maintenance works (these works should not cost more than 5% o f the total amount o f each
subproject) and consulting services will be procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank, which shall
provide that: (a) works shall be procured: (i) under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the requiredwork, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; or (ii)       through community participation
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in paragraph 3.15 o f the Guidelines; (b) goods shall be
procured on the basis o f comparison of at least three quotations in accordance with local commercial
procedures satisfactory to the Bank or, if such procedures are not feasible under a specific Subproject, the
PCU will consult with the Bank on alternative procurement procedures; and (c) consulting services estimated
to cost less than US$5,000 equivalent can be procured in accordance with local commercial practices
satisfactory to the Bank. All these expenses will require that the Beneficiaries keep invoices and any relevant
proof of eligible expenditure. Procurement under school and partnership subprojects will require continual
monitoring from the PCU

Training

The plan and budget for training and workshop activities will be reviewedand approved by the Bank semi-
annually. Training' means expenditures other than those for consultants services incurred by the Borrower to
finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of trainees, rental of training facilities, acquisition of
training equipment and material, study tours, seminars andworkshops under the project.

PCUOperatingCosts

The planandbudget for the PCU Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually. The
term "Operating Costs" includes reasonable expenditures incurred by the PCU for the carrying out o f the
Project, such as travel costs and per diem for PCU staff and also travel costs and per diem for personnel
commissioned underthe project; rentals, utilities, fuel, communications, maintenance of facilities, equipment,
andvehicles, consumable materials and supplies (which expenditures would not have beenincurred absent the
Project).

Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity
assessment o f the project implementingunit and are summarized in Table B inaddition to the prior review o f
individual procurement actions. For goods: all ICB contracts; first NCB contract; first Shopping contract. For
consultants: contracts with firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent and above; contracts with
individual consultants estimated to cost US$ 30,000 equivalent and above, and all sole-source contracts with
individuals.

Assessmentof the Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement

The Project ImplementingUnit (PCW will carry out procurement activities. The PCU will be created inthe
Department o f Education and will administer project funds. There i s currently a defacto PCU staffed by a
Project Coordinator andusingassistanceo f selectedDepartment staff. The future PCU i s expected to have the
same person incharge --who has experience intwo prior Bank-fundedprojects--, and a core group o f staff o f
about 3 specialists handling the day-to-day operations, including one person dedicated to procurement
activities. This Unit will be subordinated to the Office o f the Secretary o f Education and will interact with
different departments (they will provide, for instance, specialized in-house technical advice, disbursement and


                                               - 72 -

accounting services, etc.). A procurement consultant with wide experience in Bank-funded projects will be
hired before implementation, to assist and provide the PCU staff with procurement advice and hands-on
training. There will be an Operations Manual that will have a Procurement Section including, in addition to
the description o f procurement procedures, the main standard documents to be used for each procurement
method envisioned, as well as customized model contracts for works and goods procured on the basis o f three
quotations or shopping.

An assessmento f the capacity of the PCU to implement procurement actions for the project has been carried
out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on May 22,2003. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure o f the proposed PCU and the interaction between the project's
Procurement staff and the Department's Central Unitfor Administration and Finance.

The issues concerning the PCU's capacity to manage procurement activities were discussed and
recommendations to improve the said capacity have been made. The risks identified in the assessment
include: (i)the possibility o f interference from inexperienced procurement staff inprocurement management;
(ii) needtocreateaneffectiveprocurementfilingintheUnitandacontractmonitoringsystemand(iii)
    the                                                                                                  the
needto hire an experienced procurement advisor to start procurement activities. The Bank and the PCUhave
discussed alternatives to address these risks. It involves: (i)   promoting a training program for the less
experienced staff and providing consultaion on procurement issues during missions; (ii)improving a
monitoring system and maintaining control o f the procurement actions by usingsuch monitoring system; and
(iii) anexperiencedconsultanttohelpimproveprocurementcapacityatleastforthefirstsixmonthsof
     hiring
project implementation.

The overall project risk for procurement is HIGH. This assessment can be revised and upgraded once
procurement capacity inthe PCUhas beenincreased satisfactorily and results can be measured.

Procurement Plan

At appraisal, the Borrower developed a draft procurement planfor project implementationwhich providedthe
basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan was submittedto the
RPA for approval andis inthe project files. Every six months, within the framework o f a supervisionmission,
the Borrower will regularly update andclear with the Bank the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement
schedule for the next 12months.

Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inaddition to the prior reviewsupervision to be carriedout fromBankoffices, the capacity assessmentofthe
PCU has recommended three full supervision missions to visit the field to carry out post review of
procurement actions and general consultationon procurement matters duringthe first year o f implementation.
Afterwards, provided that the capacity to conduct procurement activities has built-up in the PCU, two full
supervisions with post review per year i s recommended. Based on the overall risk assessment (HIGH) the
post-review field analysis should cover a sample o f not less than 1in5 contracts signed.




                                                - 73 -

                      Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1

            ~~~                      Contract Value                                           Contracts Subject to
  Expenditure Category                 Threshold                      Procurement                   Prior Review
                                     (US$ thousands)                    Method
1.Works

2. Goods                                   >250                           ICB                             All
                                           <250                            NCB                      First Contract
                                            <50                         Shopping                    Firstcontract
3. Services                                >loo                          QCBS                 US$lOO,OOO and above
Consultants/Firms                          4 0 0                    QCBS, CQ, LCS,              None (Post Review)

Individuals                                                     SectionV of Consultants'      US$30,000 andabove
                                                                       Guidelines           Below $30,000, review of
                                                                                              TOR by TTL andPost
                                                                                                  Review bv PAS
4. School and                                                   As per OperationsManual
Partnership Subprojects
                                                                                  TOTAL               US$7.53

                    Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       US$7.53 million
                             Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            High
        Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:              One every 4 months (first year); and, one
                                                                             mission (secondyear) every 6 months
                                                                             (includes specialprocurement supervision
                                                                             for post-reviewlaudits)


Three during the first 12 months with special procurementsupervisionfor post-review reviewing a sample of
1 in 5 contracts signed during the first year of implementation; two every 12 months after the second year.
Riskto bereassessedafter capacityis builtup.




   1\Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacity to Implement
                     Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.


                                               - 74 -

                 Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                       COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

FinancialManagement

1. Summary of the FinancialManagementAssessment

Implementing Agencies: The Educational Fund of Cundinamarca, the Secretariat o f Education and the
Cundinamarca Department (EFC/SEC/CD), as the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), will be responsible for
the overall coordination and the financial management arrangements. Regarding financial management
arrangements the project implementing agency has a clear organizational structure and adequate staffing in
financial management to oversee all aspects of financial management for the project.

Staffing and Responsibilities: The Administrative and Financial Department, the Educational Fund of
Cundinamarca and the SEC (AFD/EFC/SEC) have the necessaryinfi-astructure and human resources to carry
out and manage the financial management requirements in an orderly and well-established manner. It would
provide support, as needed, inthe procurement, legal and financial management areas which would facilitate
Project execution. The AFD/EFC/SEC team will include a financial management coordinator, three technical
staff, an accountant, a procurement specialist and an assistant. The human resources to be included in the
project financial management unit will be provided by AFD staff assigned full time to the project. These
arrangements will avoid the creation of a parallel unit in addition to the existing organizational structure,
establish a permanent knowledge environment, and assure project ownership by the implementing agencies
thereby facilitating institutionalcapacity buildinginproject management.

Accounting Policies and Procedures: Administrative procedures will be in place to ensure that financial
transactions are made with consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the
accountinglmonitoring systems. The project already has a working draft of the Operational Manual, which i s
inthe process of beingfinalized. The project will follow the GOC accounting policies and procedures and
use financial monitoring reports that were established for all projects starting after January 1, 2003. The
World Bank will accept the new arrangements, which fit with the Banks new guidelines:              Financial
Management Guidelinesfor Financial Management Assessment,Project Implementation and Supervision.

Accounting: Accounting and budgetary records will be maintained in accordance with GOC procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. However, for Bank monitoring purposes the PCU will report on detailed
information at the project level, specifically the deposits to the SA and the expenditures classified by
activity/subcomponent and disbursement category.        The accounting system will be updated (regarding
execution o f transactions and payments) on a real-time basis, and all transactions maintain the daily rate
exchange (US$ to ColombianPeso) basedon the official exchange rate issuedby the Central Bank.

The staff currently reconciles the posted expenditures and creates statements of expenditures, classified by
disbursement category. The PCU will perform a global reconciliation between their bank account and the
resources received from the different sources using the accounting bank information prepared to verify
resource allocation.

The PCU will also be responsible for the accounting and expenditures made under component 1.4
(Establishing Strategic Partnerships between schools, the productive sectors and civil society) and will be
responsible for tracking the amounts disbursed to the sub-projects and ensuring that total disbursements and
commitments to the sub-projects do not exceed the approved amounts. The staff will also be responsible for
overseeing the monitoring and evaluation, including the financial management o f the sub-projects, for the
reconciliation of disbursed amounts against claimed expenditures for each sub-project.



                                               - 75 -

To finance the municipal school sub-proyects developed by each o f the schools o f participating
municipaliities, the project will periodically transfer funds to each institution through a current account which
will form part of the Fondo Servicios Docentes (School-managed accounts established by law), according to
the procedures detailed inthe Operational Manual. The schools will sign an agreement with the municipality
and the department. After that, the project will transfer funds equivalent to an amount that will represent 20%
of the total amount of each subproject and those resources will be made according to the agreed counterpart
fundingrule (70% loan, 30% counterpart).

Counterpart Financing: The Bank agreedto finance 70% of the total cost for this project andthe Borrower has
committed to provide its 30% counterpart financing.

Under Colombian legislation and procedures, it has been agreed that said 30% will be considered on an
annual basis for purposes of counterpart financing for this project. Furthermore, the Borrower's Assembly will
consider and approve every fiscal year the needed counterpart funds for this project. This obligation i s
embeddedinSection 3.08 of the LoanAgreement.

Budgeting: The loan agreement and the project cost tables will be the main inputs for the project's budget
estimates. The PCU will prepare (i)      the annual work plan classified by work lines, goalsiobjectives, and
physical and financial programs; (ii)  the budget proposal specifyingthe sources of funds, summarized and
detailed expenditures; (iii) the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued within 10 days after the
end of each month; and (iv) the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within 10
days after the endof the quarter.

2. Audit Arrangements

External Audit: External auditors will be hiredand will carry out an annual financial audit of the project as
requiredby OP/BP 10.02. Annual project financial statementswill be audited inaccordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms o f reference both acceptable to
the Bank. The auditor will audit the Financial Statements on an annual basis. In addition to the audit option
on project financial statements, Special Accounts and Statements of Expendituresa special purpose audit will
be carried out separately on a semi-annual basis to review the competitive grants in component 1. The
auditors will conduct interimaudits through eachyear of project implementation.

Internal audit: Internal audits will be performed following CD internal control procedures to assure an
adequate follow up on the use o f funds.

Special Purpose Audit: With regard to Component 1, sub-component 4, the PCU will employ at least one
officer responsible for the financial management review of the funds disbursed and utilized the grant
recipients. Additionally, a local audit firm will be contracted to carry out semi-annual audits to apply an
additional level of review. The finding producedinthe semi-annual reports o f the audit reports will be made
available to the Bank upon request. The audits are designed to ensure that the activities carried out at the
community level are meeting the desired level of developmental/educational impact. These audits will
employ sampling criteria and will attempt to report findings on a more frequent basis to ensure continuous
monitoring and assistance.

The PCU will appoint auditors for the annual audits by loan effectiveness, with an annual contract to be
renewedduringthe first quarter of each subsequent year. The PCUwill prepare, ifnecessary, an action plan
to address any issues and recommendations contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up
activities would be communicated to the Bank.




                                                - 76 -

                                         Table B1. RiskAnalysis

 Risk                         RiskRating              IRiskMitigation Measures
 Inherent Risk
 Country specific             Mediumto High            The country economic, social andpolitical
                                                       situationmay affect the project
                                                       performance.
 Entity/project specific      Medium                   The centralized management ofthe project
                                                       inSECwill allow anhomogenyFM
                                                       performance. Possible lack o f financial
                                                       management information and weaknesses
                                                       on financial management performance by
                                                       the Municipalities raise some concern.
 Control Risk
 ImplementingEntity           Low                      Institutional experience managing
                                                       different projects, with good knowledge of
                                                       general procedures.
 FundFlow:                    Mediumto High            Availability o f counterpart budget
 Counterpart funds                                     implementation plans, GDC lack of timely
                                                       counterpart funds Treasury allocation
                                                       problemswith flow of funds andpari-pasu
                                                       requirements inrelationwith cashbasis
                                                       plans approvalmay be a major problem in
                                                       the near future.
 Staffing                     Medium                   AFD/EFC/SE has experienced FM
                                                       personnel but they do not have experience
                                                       withWB project management.
 Special Purpose/             Medium                    Quarterly internal audits
 Internal Audit
 External Audit               Low                       Quarterly external audit and control
                                                       review, including counterparts participants
                                                       review will make the project be
                                                        considered under a lower risk
 Reporting and                Medium                    FMRsbasedonthe GOC arrangements
 Monitoring                                           I acceptedby the WE3 will be implemented
                                                        for monitoring and evaluation. -

Strengths and Weaknesses

The PCU does not have a sound financial management system. The staff i s willing to support the efforts to
develop new accounting and reporting information. However, SEC contribution to the project needs to focus
more on the provision o f timely and adequate information for monitoring and reporting in a more flexible
manner to meet the Bank's financial management requirements. The flow o f funds management needs to be
reviewedto facilitate the databasedrelatedto eachcomponent on an individual basis.

Conditions of Effectiveness:

       Operational Manual has beenadopted by the Borrower and approved by the Bank
       At least five Participation Agreements between The Secretary of Education, The Municipalities and
       the Schools have been approved.


                                            - 77 -

         An external auditing firmto behiredbasedonterms of reference acceptableto the Bank.

FinancialManagementAction Plan

The EFC/SE should provide a complete action plan to be attached to this assessment. The action plan will
provide information on the personnel responsible for implementing the action plan activities and their
completion. In addition, the plan will also include responsibilities, assignments, an adequate timetable, and
performance indicators to measureresults. The planwill be includedinthe Operational Manual.

FinancialManagementActionPlan

      AREA             ACTIVITY                             INDICATOR           TIMETABLE
   Operational      Complete the                            Operational       July 31,2003
   Manual - Internal control             Coordinator        manual
   Internal        chapter adapting                         completed
   Control         the Cundinamarca
                   internal control
                    systemto the
                   project needs.
   Operational    Modifiedthe           TU-Financial        Operational       July 31, 2003
   Manual - Information System          :oordinator         manual
   Information    to include SAP and                        completed
   System         its relation with the
                  SEC system
   Information    Adaptation ofthe       PCU- Financial     System            August 31,2003
   System         SEC systemto           Coordinator        Functioning
                  projec; needs andthe
                  automatic process to
                  transfer the
                  informationto SAP
   External Audit   Shortlist, TOR and   PCU- Financial     Hiringprocess     September 30,
   Firm            hiringprocess         Coordinator        comdeted          2003

3. DisbursementArrangements

As the executing agency, SEC: i)prepares all the requireddocuments; ii)asks the Secretariat of Finance to
process the disbursements before the Bank in order for them to be deposited into the project special account;
and iii)transfers the funds from the department to the counterpart accounts. Once the funds have been
allocated, SEC makes all the corresponding disbursements to the suppliers, as well as all advances and
reimbursements to the executing agencies, specifically to the municipality (based on the eligible activities in
the PEM), to the schools (based on the school sub-projects) and to the partnerships (based on the partnership
sub-projects). Each executing agency has an exclusive bank account to handle the PMCE project funds. An
agreement definingthe technical and financial procedures for project implementation will be signed between
the Department andeachtargeted municipalityandits schools.




                                              - 78 -

      I
                      USD $

\ IBRD PMCE                        '  SPECIAL
  ACCOUNT       I                     ACCOUNT
                            I


                             Negoc.
         Res. Sheets,        TC Form
         attachments         5 (foreign
                             currency)         Col. $




                                                     MUNICIPALITIES




                                                     IEs (FSD)School




                                 - 79 -

                               Table C: Allocation of LoadGuarantee Proceeds

             Expenditure Category                I   Amount in US$million             FinancingPercentage
 Goods                                                            1,200,000.00                  70%
 Consultant services                                             4,900,000.00   III             70%
 Training                                                         1,400,000.00                  70%
 Goods, works and consultant's services for                         700,000.00                  70%
 Partnership Subprojects
 Goods, works and consultant's services for                       5,000,000.00                  70%
 Municipal School Subprojects
 PCU Operating costs                                                100,000.00                  70%
 Premia for interest rate                                                  0.00                 0%
 Unallocated                                                      1,550,000.00  I               70%
 Total Prqject Costs with Bank Financing                        14,850,000.00
 Front-end fee                                                      150,000.00
 Total                                                          15,000,000.00

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

With respect to the use of statements of expenditures (SOEs), disbursements will be made on the basis of
traditional Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) and Direct Withdrawal Applications (DWAs). Inthe case of
the latter, disbursements will be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiringprior review by the Bank, and contracts whose value will be raised above the prior review
limits as a result o f amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements will be made against SOEs: (a)
goods costing less than $250,000, except for the first NCB and Shopping contracts, no matter the contract
price; (b) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 except for all sole source contracts with
firms, no matter the price; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $30,000; and d) for
Municipal School Subprojects and Partnership Subprojects. All consolidated SOEs documentation will be
maintainedby the PCU for post-review and audit purposes for up to one year after the final withdrawal from
the loan. Reimbursement requests shouldbe sent to the Bank on a monthly basis.Reporting and Monitoring:
On a monthly basis the PCU will prepare the projects Statement o f Expenditure,a matrix classifying receipts
by financing source and expenditures by financing source and disbursement category. The expenditures
would be compared to the project figures per the quarterly budgets prepared as indicated in the Budgeting
Section.

In addition to a SOE, the monthly financial reports will include the SA reconciliation Statements. Any
difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial statements must be clearly
explained. The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections o f the
Financial Management Report, FMR, will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis andwill be submitted
no later than 45 days after the end o f each quarter, starting not later than 45 days after the end o f the first
quarter after effectiveness. The contents of the FMRs have been discussed and the formats o f the reports will
be agreeduponduringnegotiations.

For Bank purposes the annual financial statements will also include the SOEs presented during the year in
support of Withdrawal Applications.



                                              - 80 -

Special account:

Flow of Funds-Payments and Operation of Bank Accounts
The Finance Secretariat of Cundinamarca (FSC) i s responsible for overseeing the Special Account (SA) that
will be established in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank. SA operations may only be requested by
the SEC.    The money deposited in the SA will provide resources directly to the schools and to the
municipalities, based on upon the preparation of sound financial programs and operational / administrative
agreements signed in each case. A commercial bank account in local currency will be opened inthe name of
the AFD/EFC/SEC which will use counterpart funds during project implementation and use transactional
based disbursements in order to be reimbursed. Differentcommercial bank accounts will be used to manage
loanand counterpart resources. All payments will be madeby the CD Treasury.




                                            - 8 1 -

                                   Annex 7: ProjectProcessingSchedule
                      COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement




Preparedby:
State Secretariat o f Cundinamarca and The World Bank

Preparationassistance:
TF51358         Recipient       US$300,000

Bankstaff who worked on the project incl ded:
        Name
MarthaLaverde, World Bank staff             Task Team Leader
Mark HagerstromWorld Bank staff             Sector Leader
Marito Garcia, World Bank staff             Sector Manager
Eduardo Brito, World Bank                   Legal Counsel
JosephP. Fonnoso,World Bank staff           Senior Finance Officer
DanielJ. Boyce, World Bank staff            Senior Financial Management Specialist
LuisSchwarz, WorldBankstaff                 FinancialManagement Specialist
Harry Patrinos, World Bank staff            Education Economist
Jeannette Estupinan, World Bank staff       Financial Management Specialist
JosC Martinez, World Bank staff             Procurement Specialist
Marcel0 Osorio, World Bank staff            Procurement Consultant
Albert0Chueca, World Bank staff             Colombia ResidentRepresentative
Cecilia Balchun, World Bank staff           Disbursements Specialist
Otto Bolaiios, Consultant                   Financial Management Specialist
LuisPisani, Consultant                      Education Specialist
Javier Aguilar, Consultant                  Institutional Development
Econbmica Consultores (Cons. firm)          Economic andfiscal analysis
Rosario Calle, Consultant                   Social Specialist
IsabelLondofio, Consultant                  Education
RobinDe Pietro, Consultant                  Education Specialist
Maria Teresa Tatto, Consultant              Education Specialist
CatalinaLaserna, Consultant                 Education Specialist
Henry Forero, Consultant                    MIS Specialist
Rosa Cristina Siabato, Consultant           Economist
CarolinaNieto                               Education Specialist
Catherine Gibbons, Consultant               Community Based-Development
Robert Prouty, World Bank staff             Peer Reviewer
Ernest0 Cuadra                              Peer Reviewer
Verbnica Jarrin, World Bank staff           ProgramAssistant
Sonia M.Levere. World Bank staff            PromamAssistant




                                            - 82 -

                                    Annex 8: Documentsinthe ProjectFile*
                       COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Project ImplementationPlan
Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la calidadeducativa
Manual Operativo de Implementacion-

B. BankStaff Assessments
-CAS
   PolicyNotes:
           Education: Sharingthe Fruitsof Growthwith all Colombians
           Peace: Violence, Sustainable Peace and Development
-- Colombia Country Procurement Assessment, March 2001
   Economy Analysis, Cost-Benefit Analysis
-- Financial Analysis
   Financial Management Issues.
--- Institutional Analysis
    Social andBeneficiary Assessment
    Quality Enhancement ReviewReport (QER)

C. Other
1. CentroNacional de ConsultoriaNecesidadesde 10sjovenes entre 15 y 25 aiios, Bogota, 2000.
2. Corpoeducacibn, Sanniento Alfiedo y otros, Situaci6n de la Educacion Bhsica, Media y Superior en
      Colombia, Bogota 2001.
3. Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, PlanNacional de Desarrollo, RevolutionEducativa.
4. ICFES, informes de resultados de las pruebas Saber.
5. Ley General de Educacion 115/94 y Ley 715/01sobre Recursos y Competencias.
6. Aplicacion y calificacion censal pruebas de logros a estudiantes de grado 5 y 9 en matematicas y
      lenguaje: 31municipios. Aplicacion censal pruebas de logros a estudiantes de grado 5 y 9 en matematicas
      y lenguaje: 85 municipios
7. Validez, confiabilidad y ajustes de las estadisticas educativas del departamento de Cundinamarca
8. Secretaria de Educaciondel Departamento, Estadisticas Educativas
9. Secretaria de Educacibn delDepartamento, Informe del Conversatorio de Expertos sobre Evaluacion de la
      Calidad de la Educacibn. Secretaria de Educacibn delDepartamento, Informes de 10s ForosEducativos de
      las provincias del Departamento: Almeidas, Alto Magdalena, Bajo Magdalena, Gualiva, Guavio,
      Magdalena Centro, Medina, Sabana Occidente, Oriente, Rionegro, Sabana Centro, Soacha, Sumapaz,
      Tequendama y Ubate.
10 Secretaria de Educaciondel Departamento, Plan de Desarrollo del Departamento.
11. Analisis de la Capacidad   Institutional:Departamento,  Municipios e istituciones Educativas.
12. Analisis economico: capacidad de endeudamiento, impacto fiscal, gasto en educacibn, costo beneficio,
      costo efectividad
13. Focalizacion del proyecto de mejoramientode la calidad educative
14. Evaluacion impacto social (equidad de gCnero y desplazamiento)
15. Diagnostic0 y estrategia para la cualificacion de las practicas pedagogicas de 10s docents
16. Diagnostic0 practicas directivas y de gestion escolar - rectores y directivos docents
17. Alianzas paramejorar la calidady pertinencia de la educacion: diagnostico, prospectiva y acuerdos
18. Diseiio de la estrategiaparala formulacion del plandecenal de educacion


                                               - 83 -

19. Formulacion del plan decenal de educaci6n (2003-2012): capacitacih equipo departamental y grupos
    coordinadores-promotoresmunicipales, mesas municipales, provincialesy departamental
20. Evaluacih de la calidad educativa en Colombia y en Cundinamarca: panel de expertos, mesas de
    discussion, foros provincial y departamental, consultoria
21. Memorias Taller Aspectos Fiduciarios del Banco Mundial: Proyecto de MCxico D.F.y Bogota
22. Capacitacih equipo administrativo y financier0 de la Secretaria de Educacih: MCxico D.F.y Bogota,
    D.C
23. L a gestion educativa departamental y municipal: seminario, directores de nucleo en comision.


"Including electronic files




                                             - 84 -

                                                 Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                            COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQualityImprovement

                                                                      16-Apr-2003

                                                                                                                         Difference between
                                                                                                                               expected
                                                                      OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                         and actual
                                                                                                                          disbursementsa
Proiect ID  FY   Purpose                                          IBRD        IDA                  GEF   Cancel. Undisb.   Orig     Frm Rev'd

PO74138     2003 CO-Higher Education - Improving Access          200.00       0.00                  0.00   0.00   200.00    4.80         0.00

PO74726     2003 Colombia-Bogota Urban Services Project           100.00      0.00                  0.00   0.00   100.00    0.00         0.00

PO57369     2002 CO Judicial Resolution Improvement Prj.           5.00       0.00                  0.00   0.00    4.37     0.77         0.00


PO57692     2002 2nd Magdalena Medio Project (LIL)                 5.00       0.00                  0.00   0.00     2.22    0.22         0.00

PO65937     2002 CO WATER SECTOR REF ASSISTANCE PROJEC            40.00       0.00                  0.00   0.00    37.84   11 09         0.00


PO41642     2002 CO PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS                       32.00       0.00                  0.00   0.00    29.10   -2.90         0 00

PO69964     2001 CO- Human Capital Prot.. Cash Transfers          150.00      0.00                  0.00   0.00   111.13  -38.87         0.00

PO63317     2001 GEF CO-HIGH ANDES                                 0.00       0.00                 15.00   0.00    13.78    4.98         0.00

PO40109     2001 CO PUBLIC FINANC. MANAGEMENT PROJECT             35.47       0.00                  0.00   0.00    32.64   -2.83         0.00

PO57326     2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMEN              5.00       0.00                  0.00   0.00     2.99   -2.01         0.00


PO68762     2000 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA             100.00      0.00                  0.00   0.00    76.98   65.98         0.00

PO44140     2000 CO CARTAGENA WTR SUPPLY 8 SEWERAGE EN            85.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   62.89   47.47         0.00


PO50578     2000 CO RURAL EDUCATION                               20.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   16.93   12.38         0 00

PO06891     1998 CO ANTlOQUlA EDUCATION                           40.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    9.21     8.87        4.56

PO06861     1998 CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                          75.00       0.00                  0.00   26.00   11.28   35.78         2.05


PO53243     1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES (LIL)                    5.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    1.82     1.82        0.52

PO46112     1998 CO PAST0 EDUCATION                                7.20       0.00                  0.00    0.00    2.19     2.19         1.41

PO40102     1997 CO REG.REF.TA                                     12.50      0.00                  0.00    0.00    2.99     2.99        0.00

PO06884     1997 CO FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                  15.00      0.00                  0.00    5.50    1.84     7.34         1.84

PO06894     1996 CO SANTAFE I (Water/Supply)                      145.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   34.96   34.96         0.00

PO06880     1995 AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                             36.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    5.17     5.17        -9.53

                                                         Total:  1113.17      0.00                 15.00   31.50  760.33  200.20         -3.26




                                                               - 85   -

                                                    COLOMBIA
                                               STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                    J u ~30 - 2002
                                                InMillions USDollars

                                                   Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                   IFC                                    IFC
FYApproval         Company                Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic     Loan    Equity   Quasi Partic
2002               BCSC                    0.00        7.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
2002               Bavaria                70.00       0.00       30.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
1969185188193195   CF delValle             0.00       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
2001               CHMC                    0.00       10.63       0.00     0.00       0.00    4.02     0.00  0.00
1974101            Cementos Caribe        4.05        10.00       0.00     12.95      4.05   10.00     0.00 12.95
1963190            Coltejer                6.02       0.00        0.00     0.00       6.02    0.00     0.00  0.00
1995199            Corfinsura             25.00        1.49      23.51     0.00       0.00    1.49    23.51  0.00
2002               Inversura               0.00       15.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
1987               PRODESAL                0.00       0.59        0.00     0.00       0.00    0.59     0.00  0.00
1977189192194l96   Promigas                5.00        0.00       0.00     8.33       5.00    0.00     0.00  8.33
0194195            Promisan                0.00        0.20       0.00     0.00       0.00    0.20     0.00  0.00
2002               Proteccion              0.00       10.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
1996               Proyectos               0.00        5.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    5.00     0.00  0.00
2002               SIG                    75.00        0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
1999               Surenting               0.00        5.10       0.00     0.00       0.00    2.50     0.00  0.00
2001               Tolcemento              3.33        0.00       0.00     10.67      0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
                     Total Portfolio:    188.40      65.01       53.51    31.95      15.07   23.80    23.51 21.28




                                                 Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                         Loan    Equity      Quasi        Partic
2001           CCGF                            0.00      0.00      19.00         0.00
2002           Bavaria                         0.00      0.00       0.00        200.00
2002           Omimex Oil                     30.00      5.00       0.00         0.00
2001           CHMC                            0.00     10.00      19.38         0.00
               Total Pending Commitment:      30.00     15.00      38.38        200.00




                                                - 86 -

                                                            Annex 10: Countryat a Glance
                              COLOMBIA: Cundinamarca EducationQualityImprovement

                                                                                  Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                             America
                                                                Colombia       8 Carib.    income           Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                                      43.0          524       2,164                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  1,890         3,560      1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                     81.5         1,862      2,677                               T

Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                        1.8           1.5         1.o
Labor force (%)                                                       2.7           2.2         1.2         GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                                            per      E                     +primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1995-01)                                                        capita                             enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                                 75            76         46
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                        72            70         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                                20            29         33
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                                7             9         11        1       Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                    91            85         80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                     8            11         15
Gross primary enrollment (7% ofschool-age population)                 112           130        107                     Colombia
    Male                                                              112           131        107        I    * *     Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                            112           128        107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1981        1991          2000       2001
                                                                                                            Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                        36.4       41.5          83.2        82.4
                                                                                                                          -
Gross dornesbc InvestrnenffGDP                            20 6       15.9          13.4        14.9
Exportsof qoods and serviceslGDP                           11.9      21.3          19.9        19.4                             Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                 17.0      23.4          13.7        15.3
Gross national savinqs/GDP                                 16 5      23.1          12.3        14.3

Current account balancelGDP                                4 7        5.7           0.4        -2.2
InterestpaymentslGDP                                        1 3       3.4           2.5         2.5         savings
                                                                                                            Domestic                           Investment
Total debffGDP                                            24.0       41.5          41.0        45.1
Total debt servicelexports                                20 7       36.3          29.9
Present value of debffGDP                                                          40.2
Present value of debffexports                                            ..       1937
                                                                                                                             Indebtedness
                                         1981-91 1991-01             2000          2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           3 8           2 5       2.6            1.4        2.3
GDP per capita                                1.7           0 6       0.7           -0.3        0.6                     Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof qoods and services                  9.4           4.8       3.3           4.1         2.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                                                                                                                          II
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                19.8      17.4          13.4        13.0         20

Industry                                                   31.5      37.1          30.1        299
                                                                                                           ~

                                                                                                           ~ki
    Manufacturing                                          21.9      20.9          15.9        16.3         20
Services                                                   48.7      45.4          56.5        57.1                                         +

Private consumption                                        72.5      67.4          64.6        63.6
General governmentconsumption                              10.4        9.2         21.8        21.1
Importsof goods and services                                                                                            *    e  GDi      -GDP


                                                      1981-91 1991-01              2000       2001
(averageannual growth)
Agriculture                                                 3.3       -1.8           4 7
Industry                                                    5.2        1.2           4.4
    Manufacturing                                           3.9       -2.1         10.5
Services                                                    3.2        3.8           1.2

Private consumption                                         2.8        1.9           2.6
General governmentconsumption                               4.4       9.6           -2.1
Gross domestic investment                                   0 6       -03          12.3
Importsof goods and services                                0.8       6.3            4.4

Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
'The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage.if data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                   - 87 -

                                                                                                           Colombia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1981   1991    2000    2001
Domestic prices                                                          Inflation(%)                                   1
(% change)                                                              25

Consumer prices                           27.3  26.8      8.7     6.5   20

Implicit GDP deflator                     22.8  26.0     13.6     7.6   15
                                                                        10
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                    1 5

Current revenue                                  14.1   11.8    13.3
Current budget balance                            4.8    -5.2    -5.0
Overall surplusldeficit                           2.6    -6.0    -6.1

                                                                     I...,
TRADE
                                         1981   1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                      3,195  7,653   13,115 12,309
 Coffee                                  1,423  1,336  1,069     764
 Petroleum                                 36   1,460  4,569   3,083
 Manufactures                             928  2,400   5,190   5,606
Total imports (cif)                      5,199 4,963   11,538 12,834
  Food                                     319   280    1,428   1,578
  Fueland energy                          726    284     234      189
 Capital goods                           1,859  1,565  3,414   4,468
Export price index (1995=100)               8     59     247     243             95   96     97     98  99    00     01

Import price index (1995=100)               7     63      193    209                 0 Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=700)                  118    94      128     116

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1981   1991    2000    2001    I Current
(US$ millions)                                                                    account balance to GDP ("A)
Exportsof goods and services            4,678   9,115  15,624 14,932
imports of goods and services           6,215   6,633  14,400 15,840
Resource balance                        -1,537  2,482   1,224   -908

Net income                               -427  -1,832  -2,530 -2,975
Net currenttransfers                      243   1,697   1,662  2,094

Currentaccount balance                  -1,721  2,347    356  -1,789

Financingitems (net)                     1,284  -298     513   2,955
Changesin net reserves                    437  -2,049   -869  -1,166
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                   9,006  10,245
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$)           54.5   629.3 2,087.6 2,299.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1981   1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                            Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      8,716 17,201  34,081 37,129
  IBRD                                   1,164  3,728   1,920   2,006                          A: 2,006
  IDA                                      21      14       7       7                G: 3,795          B: 7

Total debt service                       1,120  3,755   5,171
  IBRD                                     161    798     368     365
  IDA                                        1      1       1       1

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                           7     68       79
  Officialcreditors                       277   -150      102     203
  Privatecreditors                       1,127  -270      728
  Foreigndirect investment                265    457    2,376   2,328
  Portfolioequity                           0       0      26   3,380
World Bank program
  Commitments                               0     60      350     635     4 IBRD
                                                                            -                              E Bilateral
                                                                                                            -
  Disbursements                           251    301     266      368     3 - IDA   D Other multilateral
                                                                                      -
                                                                                                          G - Short-term
                                                                                                          F - Private
  Principalrepayments                      77    492     243     233      2 - IMF
  Net flows                                174  -191      24      135
  Interestpayments                         85    307      127     133
  Net transfers                            89   -498    -103        3




                                              - 88 -

                            AdditionalAnnex 11- The PartnershipsSub-projects
                      COLOMBIA: CundinamarcaEducationQuality Improvement

1.IssuesAddressedby PartnershipsSub-component

Students in Cundinamarca have high drop out and repetition rates. Low achievement test scores make it
difficult for these students to gain access to university or other schools of higher learning. This situation i s
particularly severe inrural areas. Schools are working inisolation from the surrounding community, limiting
their understandingofwhat society andthe labor market expects from young graduates. As aresult, students
leave schools without relevant capacities and skills to find employment or start an enterprise o f their own. All
of these factors contribute to a growing population of youth who are neither in school nor employed. About
36 percent o f youth inthe 15-24 age group inCundinamarca are out o f school andunemployed.

Rationale

The Partnerships Sub-component i s designed as an experimental approach to add relevance to the curriculum
o f students in the 50 municipalities targeted by the overall Project.       Specifically, the Partnerships sub-
component seeks to promote the development of the following skills andcapacities:


2. Critical thinking skills - the ability to interpret symbols and graphs, creative thinking, continuous learning,
1.Personal skills -ethics, honesty, self-esteem, self-control, responsibility, discipline, drive, and sociability.

reasoning, problem solving, decision-making and conflict-resolution skills.
3. Basic skills -basic reading, writing, math andnatural and social science skills.

The Partnerships

This sub-component will stimulate the development o f 180Partnerships between the following key partners:

0    A public education institution,which includes: teachers, students, administrators, and parents. One or
     more of these participants must be a principal partner in the Partnership. The educational institution
     engagedinthe Partnership must represent one or more levels from pre-primary through the highschool.
0    One or more economic actors: An economic actor may be an individual farmer or enterprise, or a
     producers' or peasants' association, an agricultural cooperative all o f them engaged in an economic
     activity that creates employment andgenerates value-added.

Structureof Partnerships

The Partnerships formed will have an organizational structure that clearly identifies the roles and
responsibilities of each member as well as the mechanisms for coordinating among members and making
group decisions. All these aspectswill be clearly documented in a written agreement signedby the members.
At least one member of the alliance will havepersoneriajuridica enabling it to act as the legal agent of the
partnership andto manage funds raised.




                                                  - 89 -

Sub-Proiects

The project will use a competitiveprocess to identify and finance at least 72 projects with an average value o f
US$13,900 for a total of US$1.0 million, no more than 85 percent financed by the Project and at least 15
percent financed by the Partnerships themselves. The subprojects would expose students to a variety o f real
work environments, where they would have the opportunity to exercise personal skills in interacting
employees, learn practical applications o f problem-solving and decision-making, and other basic skills such
as applied math. The hope i s that as students get exposed to real world work contexts where they need to use
their math, science andthinkingskills to solve realproblems, theywill beginto see the relevance ofeducation
to their success in the future and will, in turn, become more motivated and able to stay in school, perform
well, and either pursue higher education or seek gainful employment upon graduation. Some students may
just learn better when the apply concepts in a real work environment and thus improve their performance at
school.

Projects financed by the Partnershipswill have the following characteristics:
0   Address a concern shared by both o f the two principal partners, the educational institution and the
    economic actor;
0   Contribute to developing the basic abilities, thinkingandpersonal skills that serve to motivate andprepare
    Cundinamarca students for one or more of the following future paths:
0   Continued education inan institution o fhigherlearning;
0   The creation ofhisher own enterprise;
0   Employment ina business;
0   Increase the relevance of the school curriculum by creating a linkto the economic sector;
0   Have students as the primarybeneficiaries; and
0   Have education andlearning as the primary goal of the project.

The following project examples are designed to illustrate the types of projects that will be financed by the
Partnerships Sub-component:

Build the data collection and analysis skills of students while increasing the competitiveness of the
Coffee Sector: One of the barriers to increasing the competitiveness of the coffee sector i s the limited
education of the small-scale coffee producers. On average, coffee farmers have less than 4 years o f formal
education. The limited education level has made it difficult to introduce effective production monitoring
systems that allow individual farmers and the sector as a whole to identify and correct elements that
undermine the competitiveness of Colombian coffee producers inthe world market. By training students in
how to use a simple information system designed to track inputs, costs, outputs and productivity, the coffee
sector and individual farmers can get a better handle on how they are doing compared to their peers and
students will learn data gathering and analysis skills that will serve them inthe coffee sector or any number of
future career paths.

Learn basic biology, chemistry, and ecology while working on a Flower Farm: One o f the challenges o f
a Flower Farmer in Cundinamarca i s to minimize environmental damage caused by intensive flower
production. At school, a student could learn about the biology, chemistry and ecology involved in flower
production, while beingexposed to the practical side o f flower farmingthrough an internship.

Learn basic economics through a series of internships with various levels of the Potato Sector: At
school, the student will learn basic economic concepts such as price as a function o f supply and demand. In
parallel, through a series o f internshipsat various levels of the potato sector, he will learn how these concepts
as they apply to decisions made bypotato farmers, wholesalers, retailers, andpotato processors.




                                                 - 90 -

The projects, expected to directly benefita total of 7,200 students, will contribute to the quality andrelevance
o f education inCundinamarca anddirectly effect the following impact indicators:
0    10 % decrease in the school drop out rate in the schools andor municipalities that benefit from a
     Partnership-fimdedproject;
0    10% decrease inthe student repeatrate inthe schools andor municipalitiesthat benefit from a Partnership
     h d e dproject;
0    10% increase inthe number of students who express aspirations to do one of the following;
0    Enroll inan institution o ftertiary education (university or techmcal college) at some future date;
0    Seek employment;
0    Start their own business;

2 Overview of the Project Cycle
  -

Phase I-Promotion and Formation of Partnerships

One of the challenges facing the Partnerships Sub-component i s creating demand for its services and funds.
The Project will use its competitive sub-projects as an incentive to encourage the formation of Partnerships
between the educational community and economic actors. Inaddition it will make a significant investment in
TV, Radio, and Print promotional materials targeting the two key partners in Cundinamarca, in an effort to
create awareness and interest. The promotional campaign will be complemented by a series o f meetings
organized by the project at the municipal level. Duringa first visit to each o f the 50 targeted municipalities,
facilitators trained by the project will meet separately with the educational community and representatives of
the economic sector. At these meetings it will attempt to understand the local context and the issues facing
each sector, explore areas of potential mutual interest, and explainthe Partnerships Sub-component.

Duringthis first series ofmeetings, the Partnershp consultants will offer to facilitate a follow-up meeting for
any group including representatives o f the educational and productive sector interested in forming a
Partnership. This follow-up meeting will be designed to assist the potential partners to identify common
ground and concrete actions that they could take together to improve the quality andor relevance o f education
intheir area.

Phase 11- CompetitiveSub- Project Selection

Over the course o f the project period, the Project expects to issue six Requests for Proposals, one every six
months, the first inthe 4th month and the last inthe 36th month of the Project Implementationperiod. Inthe
first year, Partnership expects to approve roughly 12 projects, inthe second and third year 24, and in the final
year 12.

The Project will contract specialists in project planning to assist the Partnerships interested in preparing a
proposal to develop their idea and articulate it in an acceptable proposal format.          It will also give all
Partnerships the opportunity to present its proposal to a mock evaluation panel that will provide constructive
feedback that can be taken into account in developing a final draft o f the proposal. It i s hoped that this
investment will increase the chances that the projects received are well designed and show logical links
between the technical and financial portions of the proposal.

Each proposal receivedbefore the closing date will be evaluated twice, once by an individual evaluator and a
second time by a panel of independent evaluators. The project selection criteria, which are included below,
are divided into three categories: 1) those that must be met in order for the project to be considered for
financing (as mentioned in section on "Characteristics of Projects" above); 2) those that might not be met in




                                                - 91 -

the proposal received, but that must be met by the time the project reaches the Evaluation Committee; and 3)
those that are not pre-requisites, but that affect the projects final score, and thus its chances for approval.

By the time the proposals reach the Evaluation Committee s, they have been organized into two groups: 1)
those that have been excluded because they do not meet the first and second level of minimumrequirements
and 2) those that meet all of the first and second level requirements. Eachproposal inthis second batch will
have a numerical score, based upon how well it meets the third category of criteria, each o f which has a
certain number o f possible points. The Board will vote on the projects, starting with the highest ranked
proposals first and descending until all o f the available sub-project funds have been allocated.

Each finance Partnership must identify in writing one member of its group to sign the contract and manage
the sub-project funds. This entity must havepersoneriajuridica. Once signed, a copy o f the contract i s given
to each o f the key partners of the Partnership, another to the entity contracted to manage the project budget,
and one i s kept inthe Partnership Sub-component's sub-project files.

Phase III -Project Implementation

Once a Partnership has a signed contract, it must open a sub-project bank account before receiving its first
disbursement of funds. Once it has documented that the account has been opened, the Partnership
Coordinator will give the order to make the first disbursement of approved sub-project funds. Sub-projects
will receive, on average, three disbursementsover the life o ftheir sub-project.

Each Partnership receiving sub-project funds will be expected to submit quarterly reports that document
progress in implementingthe project work plan and expenditures against approved budget. Prior to making
subsequent disbursements of funds, a Monitoring specialist from the PCU will visit the sub-project to verify
that the progress on the ground i s consistent with reported progress. The Monitoring Specialist will also
identify technical assistance needs that the program needs to address to ensure sub-project success. On
average, the Partnership team expects that 50 percent o f projects will require 10 days or more o f technical
assistanceduringthe life of their sub-project.

Phase I V -Project Closing,Evaluation andAudit

Once a sub-project i s fully implemented, the Partnership must prepare a final project report and justify all
funds received withn 30 days after the end of its sub-contract period. In addition, the Monitoring and
EvaluationTeam from the PCUwill visit a completed project and evaluate the degree to which the project has
implemented all planned activities and achieved its planned results. As part of the overall project external
audit, arandom sample of the financed sub-projects will undergo an in-depthaudit every year.

The Budget

The Partnership Sub-component will have a total estimated cost o f US$2.1 million, of which 15 percent will
be financed by the Partnerships themselves, and 85 percent financed by the Project. Giventhe plan to focus
this sub-component on the 50 targeted municipalities, where the economic sector may less dynamic than in
other parts of the Department, the Partnerships sub-component plans to invest heavily in the provision of
training and technical assistance to the Partnerships and the funded sub-projects, in an effort to compensate
for these weaknesses.

A quick cost-benefit analysis suggests that the Partnership Subcomponent is relatively highcost and begs the
question whether it would be sustainable. The 7200 students beneficiary estimate assumes that each o f the 72
funded projects have 100 direct beneficiaries, therefore the average project cost would be $139 per student
helped. To get a more realistic idea of the cost benefit, one needs to take into account the possibility that


                                                 - 92 -

these sub-projects will produce curriculum materials that may one day be available to children throughout the
Cundinamarca school system. This sub-component may also serve to demonstrate to the private sector that
these partnerships generate long-term positive returns in the form o f a larger pool of skilled and motivated
homegrown employees. The program may also contribute to a more stable environment for business as
young people begin to see local employment or continued education as a better alternative to joining the
guerrilla forces. (An estimated 36 percent of Cundinamarca youth between 15 and 24 are neither employed
nor inschool. These kids become primecandidatesfor recruitment into the guerrilla forces, who offer them a
basic wage in return for their services.) If these Partnerships prove to make good business sense, in the
future, the productive sector may need no financial incentives to form Partnerships. This would certainly
enhance the sustainability o f this component.

Partnerships Sub-project Selection Criteria

Sub-project proposals submittedby Partnerships will be evaluated and rankedbased upon an objective set of
project selection criteria. These criteria are public information and are o f two kinds: a) those that were
definedduringthe project design phase and appear inthe Partnership Sub-component OperatingManual and
b) those that will vary as the project evolves and will be specified inthe Terms of Reference of each of the
Sub-project Grant Cycles. The selection criteria are dividedinto three categories: 1)those that must be met in
order for the project to be considered for financing (as mentioned in section on "Characteristics o f Projects"
above); 2) those that might not be met inthe proposal received, but that must be met by the time the project
reaches the Boardof Directors; and 3) those that are not pre-requisites, but that affect the projects final score,
and thus its chances for approval.

Sub-project funds will be allocated basedupon free competition amongpublic, private andmixedapplicants.

3. Requirements

a. that must be met in initial review ofprojectproposal:

Evaluators will determine whether this or not a sub-project meets these minimumcriteria or the proposal will
berejected:

1. The sub-project targets students inone or more of the following educational levels -pre-school, primary,
    low secondary, and upper secondary;
2. The sub-project has been developed by and will be implemented by an Partnership that includes as the
    primary partners, one or more ducational institutions from the public sector and one or more economic
    actors basedinone or more o f the 50 targeted municipalities o f Cundinamarca;
3. No member of the Partnership may have outstanding contractual commitments with the Government o f
    Cundimarca.;
4. The sub-project must demonstrate that it will contribute directly to the development of one or more of the
    following: basic skills, critical thinking skills, or personal skills that serve to motivate and prepare the
    student grouptargetedbythe project to pursue one ofthe following objectives:
         -   Enrollment inan institution of higher education at some future date
         --  Employment inan economic enterprise
             The Creationofhisher own enterprise
5. Learning must be a fimdamental element of the proposed sub-project strategy.




                                               - 93 -

b. that must be met by the time theproject reaches theEvaluation Committee
Evaluators will determine whether this or not a sub-project meets the following set of minimum criteria. If
not, a letter will be sent to the applying Partnership, requesting additional information or proposal
modifications. If all of these pending issues are resolved prior to the deadline, the sub-project will be
submittedfor considerationto the Evaluation Committee. Ifnot, the sub-project will berejected.

    The proposedinitiative mustbepresentedinthe Partnership sub-project proposal format.
    The Partnership must be formalized in a written agreement that allows it to receive and manage sub-
    project funds.
    The sub-project document must clearly describe the organizational structure of the Partnershp, the roles
    and responsibilities of eachmember, and the mechanisms for coordination and for decision-making
    The Partnership must include one member with personeria juridica that will serve as its legal
    representative and clearly define the functions that this member may performwithout consulting the other
    membersof the Partnership.
    The members o f the Partnership must contribute at least 15 percent of the value of sub-project, either in
    cash or inlund.
    The sub-project must have a durationof at least one year andless than three years.
    The amount requested for the sub-project may not exceed US$75,000 for the life o f the project and U S
    $25.000 per year.

c. proposal scoring (points) :

The following are the technical criteria to be used to evaluate the quality of the proposedproject against the
terms o f reference publishedin the call for proposals. Each o f the following criteria describes an ideal. Each
criterion will be assigned a range of points. Evaluators will determine how many of the possible points a
proposal i s assigned, baseduponhow closely it addresses the ideal described.

    The sub-project promotes improvedarticulation between two or more levels o fthe education system.
    The sub-project contextualizes student learning within productive environments that serve to make
    education more relevant to the world of work.
    The sub-project will serve to strengthen the network ofPartnerships.
    The degree to which the problem the sub-project addresses and the solution it proposes i s relevant and
    important to achieving the overall objective o f the Project to improve the quality o f education in
    Cundinamarca.
    The proposal has an internal logic that links the sub-project objectives with the problem addressed, the
    strategy, the resources and the desiredimpact.
    The proposed strategy i s relevant to the problem and proposed objective and i s well adapted to the local
    context.
    The proposed sub-project indicators are the best for measuring the plannedimpact and results o f the sub-
    project, are sufficient and appropriate for the level o fresources to be invested.
    The sub-project work plan and chronogram: a) i s adapted to the productive calendar of the economic
    sector involved; b) the quantity and quality o f the planned activities are consistent with the sub-project
    objectives and strategies; c) the costs are reasonable; d) the timeline proposes a logical sequence of
    activities to achieve the sub-project objectives.
    The budget i s reasonable, both interms of prices, andquantities and addresses the sub-project needs. The
    sub-project includes a cash flow analysis both for the World Bank funds and for the Partnership
    counterpart funds. There i s evidence of a sound financial management system capable of controlling
    funds, materials and other resources and of tracking expenses against approved budget. The budget does
    not include any ineligibleitems and fully justifies all line items.



                                                - 94 -

  The proposal includes all of the elements need to conduct a financial and economic and costbenefit
  analysis of the project.
  The proposal shows how both the Partnership and the sub-project have the potential o f becoming
  financially sustainable beyondthe life of the sub-project implementation period.
  The proposed educational and productive activities outlined in the proposal appear to be feasible and
  appropriate for achieving the proposals objectives withinthe requestedbudget amount.
  The proposal documents the student participationinthe identification andplanningo f the sub-project
  The sub-project has promotes synergies with the other components and sub-components of the
  Cundinamarca EducationProject.
  The sub-project i s not a duplication of activities explicitly financed by the other components and sub-
  components of the Cundinamarca EducationProject.
b The sub-project provides adequate information to document that itmeetsthe World Bank's environmental
  requirementsinits designand implementation, the sub-project will promote gender equity.
  A portion o f the requested funds will be used to document the evolution o f the Partnership and the sub-
  project and to disseminate project information andlessonslearned.




                                             - 95 -


