                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR 0000203




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-71920)




                                  ON A LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.0 MILLION

                                       TO

                    DEPARTAMENTO DE CUNDINAMARCA

         WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                     FOR A

      CUNDINAMARCA EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                 March 19, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective February 26/2007)
                               Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (CP)
                                  CP $2.240 = US$1.00
                                       US$1 = 0,0004464

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AA                Ambientes de Aprendizaje
AM                Aulas Mixtas
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CONPES            Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social
DNP               Department of National Planning (Departamento Nacional de
                  Planeación)
ICFES             Instituto Colombiano de Fomento a la Educación Superior
ICR               Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR               Implementation Status and Results Report
LA                Loan Agreement
LAC               Latin America and Caribbean Region
MIP               Municipal Improvement Plan
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PEI               Institutional Educational Plan (Plan Educativo Institucional)
PSR               Project Supervision Report
QER               Quality Enhancement Review
SEC               Cundinamarca Secretariat of Education (Secretaría de Educación de
                  Cundinamarca)
TTL               Task Team Leader




       Vice President: Pamela Cox
     Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero
      Sector Manager: Eduardo Vélez Bustillo
  Project Team Leader: Martha Laverde
  ICR Primary Author: Juan Prawda

                                          COLOMBIA
                    Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project
                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)............... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis) . 33
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 43
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    CUNDIMARCA
                                                                    EDUCATION
Country:                Colombia              Project Name:
                                                                    QUALITY
                                                                    IMPROVEMENT
Project ID:             P077757               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-71920
ICR Date:               03/30/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    DEPARTAMENTO
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             DE
                                                                    CUNDINAMARCA
Original Total
                        USD 15.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 1.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Secretaría de Educación del Departamento de Cundinamarca
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/25/2002    Effectiveness:        12/30/2003       12/30/2003
Appraisal:             06/09/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/19/2003    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:              04/30/2008       04/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Highly Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                               23                23
Secondary education                                             55                55
Sub-national government administration                          22                22


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                          Secondary       Secondary
Education for all                                              Primary         Primary
Education for the knowledge economy                           Secondary       Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                            Secondary       Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Secondary       Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                        David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Makhtar Diop                      Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Eduardo Velez Bustillo            Marito H. Garcia
Project Team Leader:      Martha Laverde                    Martha Laverde
ICR Team Leader:          Martha Laverde
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Prawda



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The purpose of the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project is to assist the
Government of the Department of Cundinamarca to develop the skills in basic and




                                              ii

secondary school students that will improve their productivity, competitiveness and
overall social skills.

  The development objectives of the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement
Project are to: (i) improve the quality and relevance of the education system and (ii)
improve the internal and external efficiency of education at the department level,
municipal and school levels.

  The project aimed to contribute to current policies and strategies o f the Department o f
Cundinamarca by focusing support on the poor through targeting both the poorest
municipalities in the Department and those schools with the poorest achievement levels
as measured by standardized test results. The project aimed at supporting enhanced
quality and equity by: (i) targeting interventions to disadvantaged schools in rural and
periurban areas and to students at high risk; (ii) complementing the goal of increased
coverage as stated in the Departmental Development Plan 2001 - 2004; (iii) reinforcing
the participation of key stakeholders by adding relevance to the educational content
(process and management of schools); and (vi) upgrading the skills and competencies o f
both dropouts and graduates to facilitate their entry into the labor market.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original project objectives remained unchanged until the Loan balance was
cancelled on June 8, 2006.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values         Target Years
                Mathematics and Language for Grades 5 and 9: Student achievement on
Indicator 1 :   standardized tests increases by 5% in those municipalities participating in the
                Project.

                In 2003, Grade 9           Grade 9                             In 2005, Grade 9

                Mathematics 57.9           Mathematics 60.8                    Mathematics 60.7

                percent; Language 61.5     percent; Language                   percent; Language

Value           percent.                   64.6 percent.                       65.4 percent

quantitative or
Qualitative)    In 2003, Grade 5           Grade 5                             In 2005, Grade 5

                Mathematics 55 percent;    Mathematics 66.10                   Mathematics 58.6

                Language 57.8 percent.     percent; Language                   percent; Language
                                           74.07 percent.                      58.5 percent

Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006

Comments        The significant increase shown in Math for grade 9, leads the ICR team to

(incl. %        believe that there must be a mistake, either with the baseline or with the updated

achievement)    information. Language target was achieved. In 5th grade no targets were
                achieved.
Indicator 2 :   Repetition Rates: (average 1 to 11): at least a 10% decline in the repetition rate in



                                                iii

               those municipalities participating in the Project.
Value
quantitative or In 2003, 5.52%             4.97 percent or                     In 2005, 4.9 percent
Qualitative)                               less

Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Dropout Rates: (average of grades 1 to 11): at least 10% decline in the dropout
                rate in those municipalities participating in the Project.
Value
quantitative or 7.29%                      6.56 percent or                     In 2005, 7.2 percent
Qualitative)                               less

Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Average Student-Teacher Ratio: this ratio to reach 22 in rural areas and 31 in
                urban zones in those project municipalities.

Value                                      22 in rural schools                 In 2005, 22 in rural

quantitative or 22.45 in Rural schools;    31 in urban                         schools

Qualitative)    25.37 Urban schools        schools                             In 2005, 27 in
                                                                               urban schools
Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved for rural schools, but felt short for urban schools in

achievement)    project municipalities.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   90% of the project schools have and use a school administrative management
                information system.
Value           8.33% (from 109                                                None. The schools
(quantitative   integrations and 611       90 percent                          only received the
or Qualitative) associations)                                                  Manual.
Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The change of orientation of the Project since mid-2004 impeded the

achievement)    implementation of activities geared to achieve this agreed output.

                About 90% of the schools implement an educational project (PEI) oriented to
Indicator 2 :   improve quality in the classroom; The schools have been endowed with
                appropriate instructional resources and learning materials.
Value           12.24% (from 109                                               88 percent of
(quantitative   integraciones and 611      90 percent                          Project school



                                                 iv

or Qualitative) associations)                                                  integrations
                                                                               (corresponding to
                                                                               44 out of the 50
                                                                               Project
                                                                               municipalities)
                                                                               prepared a PEI,
                                                                               including
                                                                               improvement and
                                                                               investment Plans
                                                                               which were never
                                                                               implemented.
Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006

Comments        The investment improvement Plans emerging from the PEIs were never

(incl. %        implemented due to lack of funding and commitment by the SEC who set in

achievement)    motion since mid-2004 a different technical agenda concerning the AA/AM
                scheme.

Indicator 3 :   About 4,900 teachers in rural and urban areas of the eligible municipalities are
                applying new teaching methodologies and using learning resources.
                                                                               About 570 teachers
                                                                               in 197 educational
Value                                                                          institutions are
(quantitative   21%                       4,900                                using the robotic
or Qualitative)                                                                learning goods
                                                                               provided by the
                                                                               Project.
Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006
Comments        The activities carried under this indicator were few, scattered, disarticulated and
(incl. %        largely disconnected from the larger objective of improving education quality
achievement)    and relevance at the school level.

Indicator 4 :   About 90% of the schools involved in the project have and use the instructional
                resources Kit.
                                                                               1,137 kits were
                                                                               delivered to 9,000
                                                                               students of grade 11
Value           4.4% (from 109                                                 and 437 teachers
(quantitative   integrations and 611      90 percent                           trained in the use of
or Qualitative) associations)                                                  these learning
                                                                               materials to
                                                                               prepare student for
                                                                               the ICFES test.
Date achieved 11/01/2004                   11/01/2004                          10/06/2006
Comments        The activities carried under this indicator were few, scattered, disarticulated and
(incl. %        largely disconnected from the larger objective of improving education quality
achievement)    and relevance at the school level.

Indicator 5 :   The 50 municipalities served by the Project have implemented their Educational
                Development Plans in conformance with the Department 10-yr Plan guidelines.
Value           26% of the 50                                                  68 percent (34
(quantitative                             100 percent                          municipalities out
or Qualitative) municipalities                                                 of the 50) prepared,



                                                 v

                                                                             but never
                                                                             implemented their
                                                                             Educational
                                                                             Development Plan.
                                                                             The municipalities
                                                                             only received the
                                                                             Manual.
Date achieved 11/01/2004                  11/01/2004                         10/06/2006
Comments       Municipal Educational Development were never implemented due to lack of
(incl. %       funding and commitment by the SEC who set in motion since mid-2004 a
achievement)   different technical agenda concerning the AA/AM scheme.

Indicator 6 :  The Department has implemented the Evaluation System for students, teaching
               staff and schools.
Value
(quantitative  Only the SABER                                                Designed but not

or Qualitative)National Test                                                 implemented.

Date achieved 11/01/2004                                                     10/06/2006

Comments       The Saber national test continues producing periodic learning findings. However,

(incl. %       the evaluation of teaching staff and schools, which was assumed to be added

achievement)   value brought by the Project, never got off the ground for lack of committment
               from SEC.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/15/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/15/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/03/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.96
  4     12/14/2004           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     1.71
  5     04/29/2005           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     2.13
  6     12/27/2005     Highly Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory                  2.25



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

The Colombia Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement Project, henceforth also referred
in the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) as the Project, was financed by the
Bank under a US$15.0 million loan to the Government of the Department of Cundinamarca (the
Borrower), one of the political divisions of the Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor). At the
time of the loan approval by the Bank's Board, Cundinamarca had over 2.2 million people (59
percent living in urban areas) in 116 municipalities. Of the 116 municipalities, only five had
populations exceeding 100,000 inhabitants, 31 exceeded 14,000 in population, and the rest ­ 80
municipalities ­ had less than 14,000 people. The national household survey indicated that 34
percent of the families were poor (could not satisfy the basket of basic needs) and 11.4 percent
were in extreme poverty, compared to 49.2 and 14.7 percent at the national level (2005). Of the
537,432 students enrolled in 3,714 schools registered in the Department: (a) 68.7 percent lived in
rural areas and 31.3 percent in urban areas; (b) 75.6 percent attended public schools; and (c) 11.2
percent attended preschool, 50.7 percent attended primary, 28.8 percent attended lower secondary
and 9.3 percent attended upper secondary.          Cundinamarca was among the departments in
Colombia that had received the largest number of displaced people caused by the widespread
violence affecting the country at the time the Project was prepared.

The Project design was attuned to the then ongoing National Development Plan (Hacia un Estado
Comunitario), the National Education Plan (Revolución Educativa), the Cundinamarca
Development Plan 2001-2004 and the Law 715 providing the regulatory framework of
educational decentralization for the provision of education by the Departments, and in some cases,
by certified municipalities within a given Department. This new legal framework drastically
changed the organizational structure of the school system by clustering smaller schools with
larger ones (called instituciones), ensuring a better pedagogical articulation between the different
educational levels and modifying the allocation of funds to schools on a per-student attendance
basis instead of the historical incremental approach based on teaching positions.

In addition, for the education sector the National Development Plan emphasized: (i) carrying out
evaluation schemes as a means to improve the quality of education; (ii) learning from best
practices; (iii) developing educational models to improve educational relevance; (iv) expanding
and improving the use of media and new technologies in education; (v) strengthening the
capacity of the Departmental and Municipal education administration; and (vi) developing a
management information system. Complementing the aims of the National Development Plan,
the National Education Plan, also with a country-wide scope, stressed the transferring of
management responsibilities to the Departments and certified Municipalities and the
strengthening of the education sector's capacity to operate in a decentralized fashion, as an
effective strategy to improve access and quality of education and increase the internal and
external efficiency of the education system. In summary, the Project's design, fully endorsed by
the authorities of the Government of Cundinamarca, addressed the following eight major sector
issues that the Borrower's education sector faced:

(a) Low quality in terms of academic achievement and poor learning environment in
primary and secondary education. The results of the national and departmental achievement
tests in mathematics and language showed that, while on average students in Cundinamarca



                                               1

performed near the national level, absolute scores were still low in the order of less than 55
percent of the prescribed educational objectives in both disciplines. The weak average learning
outcomes significantly worsened in the rural and peri-urban areas of Cundinamarca.

(b) Poor coverage in secondary education. Net enrollment rates in secondary education in
Cundinamarca, 60 percent, were lower than the national average of 66 percent, and below
regional (62 percent for the Latin American Region (LAC) and international levels (91 percent
for OECD countries). The 27 percent transition rate from primary to secondary education in rural
areas of Cundinamarca was significantly lower than the one for urban areas (87 percent). By
addressing repetition and dropout rates, especially in the rural areas, the Project aimed at
increasing net enrollment rates at lower and upper secondary levels.

(c) Inequities in the delivery of educational services. Available educational data showed
significant socio-economic disparities. For example, lower secondary enrollment in rural areas of
Cundinamarca, 27 percent, was three times lower than the one in urban areas (85 percent).

(d) Weak management and governance at the Departmental, municipal and school levels.
The Cundinamarca Secretariat of Education (Secretaría de Educación de Cundinamarca ­ SEC)
lacked capacity in the: (i) carrying out of planning, implementing and evaluating mechanisms
required to improve the quality of education in the Department; (ii) appropriate provision of
technical support to its municipalities; and (iii) collection and analysis of information required to
manage the education sector. At the municipal level, especially municipalities that were certified
under the Law 715 and vested with the responsibility of managing the basic public school system
entrusted to them, the management weaknesses were even more striking than at the Departmental
level. Lack of an appropriate skill-mix of qualified trained staff, of managerial procedures and
timely information, were some of the reasons explaining the management fragility at the
municipal level. There was also a lack of bridging schemes linking Departmental educational
plans and policies with the needs and characteristics of the municipal basic public school.

At the school level, although schools were mandated by the national Law 715 to produce an
Institutional Educational Plan (Plan Educativo Institucional - PEI), these PEIs were seldom used
by the schools as an instrument to improve their educational services and management practices.

(e) Limited participation of the productive sector and civil society in the education process.
At large, schools were working in total isolation and were disconnected from societal and labor
market needs. Participation of the community (comprised by parents and community leaders) as
well as the productive sector in the elaboration and implementation of the school's PEI was at
best scanty.

(f) Inadequate monitoring and evaluation. Although Cundinamarca periodically administered
a student assessment system to gauge individual student skills and competencies, no information
on the overall quality of education and its determinants was available. In addition, there was a
need for timely and reliable data on: (i) school enrollment, dropout, repetition and completion
rates; (ii) distribution and characteristics of school facilities; and (iii) availability of school
furniture and learning equipment and materials. Finally, SEC lacked a systematic and well
organized method for collecting, processing, analyzing and disseminating information for the
carrying out of corrective and preventive measures and policy making at the Departmental level.

(g) Lack of a medium-term education plan to operationalize current policies. Although the
Cundinamarca Development Plan 2001-2004 set education as one of its three priorities and laid



                                                2

out a general vision, it lacked specific policies, strategies, targets and actions needed to achieve
stated objectives, rendering such plan as non-executable. The absence of a long-term operational
Plan made it very difficult for policy makers to adopt appropriate decisions in the education
sector of Cundinamarca.

(h) Incomplete decentralization process. The Colombian basic education had been long
decentralized to the Departments and certified Municipalities under the Decree 2279 of 1979 and
the Education Law 115 of 1994 which established the roles, functions and responsibilities in the
education sector among the different levels of government. At the time of the project preparation,
a new Education Law (715 of 2001) modifying the existing regulatory framework set in 1994
with respect to the country's education management decentralization process was approved by the
Colombian Congress. After passage of the new Law, the Cundinamarca Department assessed the
existing gaps that needed to be addressed to appropriately implement the new regulatory
framework, especially with respect to budget resource transfers (as explained above, now
allocated on a per-student attendance basis) and management information requirements. In
addition, Law 715 entrusted school principals with greater responsibility for the overall
management of their schools, a function for which they were largely untrained, and in some cases,
unqualified to perform.        Finally, under the new regulatory framework, the departmental
Secretariats of Education were expected to play a more strategic and less administrative role by
providing technical assistance to municipalities and schools to ensure that quality and efficiency
standards were met.

During the preparation phase, the Government of Cundinamarca (Governor, mayors and
parliament) continuously showed a high level of political commitment. Since preparation took
place 18 months before the change of government, the project team met with the main candidates
in order to sensitize them to the issues to be addressed by the project. There was also a lot of
consultation with the communities and schools participating in the project. There were no
indications at the time that the new administration would become so negative towards the
previous administration's education program.

Rationale for Bank assistance. In total congruency with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS)1 for Colombia at the time of Project preparation (further detailed in section 3.1 of the
ICR), the following reasons were provided in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the
World Bank (Bank) to provide financial support for this Project. First, the Bank had played a key
role in the initiation of several educational reforms in past years in the LAC Region including in
Colombia, thus bringing to Project design its substantial worldwide lending experience focusing
on: (a) quality improvement programs; (b) demand-driven interventions for the improvement of
the quality and relevance of education at the school level; (c) active participation of stakeholders
in the addressing and solution of their issues; and (d) decentralization of public social services,
including education. In particular, Project's design was based on a strategy of progressive




1The objectives of the Bank's Colombia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time of project
preparation were: (i) meeting the targets for the Millennium Development Goals; (ii) achieving fast and
sustainable growth; (iii) sharing growth with all Colombians; and (iv) building efficient, accountable and
transparent governance. The objectives of the Cundinamarca project were consistent with those of the CAS
and were planned to facilitate their achievement by enhancing equity in education quality, relevance and
sector efficiency within an environment characterized by the need to support the process of decentralization,
increase economic competitiveness and growth, reduce poverty and ease internal conflict and violence.


                                                  3

reforms in the Colombian education system, some of them financed by the Bank2. Second, by
helping an important client to meet the targets of the Millenium Development Goals, for which
the Bank has been a leading worldwide advocate, this Project was to contribute to increase
productivity and competitiveness through improved education (see Closing the Gap in Education
and Technology, World Bank, September 2002). This in turn was expected to have an impact in
reducing poverty as well as violence inside the school system. Finally, the proposed Project was
also intended as an important laboratory for continuous learning by the Cundinamarca
Department and the education sector of the Bank and for the possibility of replicating this
innovative Project design in other Departments of the country. This Project had no co-financiers.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
(as approved)

According to Section A.1 and Annex 1 of the PAD dated July 10, 2003 and Schedule 2 to the
PAD the Project was to assist the Government of the Department of Cundinamarca on the
development of basic and secondary school students´ skills (grades 1 to 11) needed to improve
their productivity, competitiveness and overall social skills.         Accordingly the Project's
development objectives were to improve: (a) the quality and relevance of the Borrower's
education system; and (b) the internal and external efficiency of education at the departmental,
municipal and school levels in the Department of Cundinamarca (the Borrower's territory).

The project aimed to contribute to current policies and strategies of the Department of
Cundinamarca by focusing support on the poor through targeting both the poorest municipalities
in the Department and those schools with the poorest achievement levels as measured by
standardized test results. The project aimed at supporting enhanced quality and equity by: (i)
targeting interventions to disadvantaged schools in rural and periurban areas and to students at
high risk; (ii) complementing the goal of increased coverage as stated in the Departmental
Development Plan 2001 - 2004; (iii) reinforcing the participation of key stakeholders by adding
relevance to the educational content (process and management o f schools); and (vi) upgrading
the skills and competencies o f both dropouts and graduates to facilitate their entry into the labor
market.

The following key outcome indicators (appearing in Annex 1 to the PAD), further explained in
Annex 1 to the ICR, were agreed with the Borrower in the context of Bank's financing: (a)
improvements made to the quality and relevance of the education system measured by the results
of the: (i) mathematics and language standardized tests for grades 5 and 9, as compared to a
baseline information that was to be made available in 2004; and (ii) national test for grade 11 as
measured by the ICFES (Instituto Colombiano de Fomento a la Educación Superior) admission
test to higher education; and (b) improvements made to the internal and external efficiency of
education at the Departmental level, measured by changes in the repetition and dropout rates as
well as on the average student-teacher ratio, as compared to a baseline information that was to be
made available in 2004.




2 The Antioquia Education Project (Ln 6861); the Pasto Education Project (Ln 4242); the Youth
Development Project (Ln. 4383); the Rural Education Project (Ln. 7012); the Human Capital Protection
Project (Ln. 7050); and the Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project (Ln. 7078).




                                               4

Key output indicators are explained in Section 1.5 and 3.2 for each project component.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The original Project objectives remained unchanged until the loan balance was cancelled
on June 8, 2006.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

According to Section C3 and Annex 2 of the PAD, the Project was estimated to benefit
approximately: (i) 215,000 children between the ages of 5 to 17 in rural and peri-urban areas of
the Department of Cundinamarca who were to received better quality education (from preschool
to secondary); (ii) 9,000 teachers in about 1,011 Project schools (grouped in about 117 clusters
known as instituciones) in 50 targeted municipalities of the Department of Cundinamarca who
were to be better prepared to provide a good quality education in the Project's areas; (iii) 56 rural
and 119 urban school principals and 1,465 members of school management teams and school
councils that were to receive training to improve the management, quality, effectiveness and
efficiency of their schools; (iv) 6,000 students in 180 education institutions working in alliance
with 72 economic and social actors; (v) about 900 schools (700 rural and 200 urban) in 50
targeted poor municipalities3, selected from the 116 municipalities comprising the Cundinamarca
Department on the basis of their educational plans to improve the quality, relevance and equity in
the schools under their responsibility; and (vi) 50 targeted municipalities implementing their
improved educational plans.            Special attention was to be given to displaced children.
Additionally, the Project was to benefit the SEC through improved capacity to better manage the
education sector in the Department.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The following three components were included in the Project (as fully explained in Annex 2 to
the PAD and in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (LA).

Component A ­ Improving School Management to Enhance Education Quality and
Relevance. This component, representing about 77 percent of the total Project cost, aimed at
supporting changes to school management and practices in accordance with new legislation and
department development plans seeking education quality and relevance as well as school-
community activities geared to mitigate the incidence of violence and conflicts. In a demand-
driven logic, the PEIs, to be prepared by the Project's schools' teams, were to be one key
instrument to achieve the above-mentioned objectives. Therefore, this component aimed at
financing technical assistance provided by qualified firms and/or individuals to support the
preparation, in a participatory fashion, and implementation of the PEIs. Approved PEIs would
then get Project resources through fund transfers from the Department to the municipality and
then to the school under written and signed agreements among these three actors. Accordingly,
this component consisted of the: (a) strengthening of administrative, financial and management


3 A thorough targeting study was contracted with a qualified firm to rank the 116 municipalities by their
poverty level with regards to a series of social, demographic and economic variables.




                                                    5

systems of municipal schools through the provision of technical assistance, training, tailored-
made internships, sharing of good practices and acquisition of equipment; (b) improvement of
pedagogical practices at municipal schools through provision of technical assistance, textbooks,
learning and instructional materials, staff development fellowships, study tours and stipends for
teachers to attend specific training courses; (c) provision of adequate instructional resources and
student supplies including technical assistance and training for their use; (d) establishment of
about 180 partnerships between Project-eligible schools and private sector entities for students to
gain exposure to real-world work environment through the financing of approximately 75 projects
to enhance the curriculum of eligible schools, through training and technical assistance4; and (e)
carrying out of investments aimed at the maintenance of municipal schools, the training of
municipal school's management teams and the establishment of appropriate instruments to
measure management efficiency, cost effectiveness and quality assurance.

The following key output indicators, most of them further explained in Annex 1 to the ICR,
appeared in Annex 1 to the PAD for Component A: (c) improvements made to school
management to enhance quality and relevance as compared to the baseline information of January
2004 and measured by the number of Project schools: (i) using a school administrative
management information system; and (ii) implementing their PEI to improve quality in the
classroom and endowed with appropriate instructional resources and learning materials; (d)
improvements made to the pedagogical practices as compared to the baseline information of
January 2004 and measured by the number of teachers in rural and urban areas of eligible
municipalities applying new teaching methodologies and using learning resources; (e) provision
of adequate instructional resources as measured by the number of Project schools using the
instructional resource kit compared to the baseline information of January 2004; and (f)
establishment of strategic partnerships between the Project schools, the productive sector and
civil society, as measured by the number of ongoing linking programs among the above-
mentioned stakeholder as compared to the baseline information of January 2004.

Component B ­ Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External Efficiency.
This Component financed technical assistance, training courses, provision of basic material and
services, production of manuals and guidelines, publications and studies for the strengthening of
the institutional and management capacity of SEC and the Project's municipalities to improve the
overall efficiency of the Cundinamarca education system. This component in turn included two
sub-components. The first one - Strengthening SEC's and the Project Municipalities' education
management ­ included: (a) developing an evaluation system to allow SEC to define education
policies and improvement plans, ensure that education meets social demands and facilitate and
improve education decision-making processes across the sector; (b) designing and implementing
a ten-year Education Plan for the Department of Cundinamarca and strengthening the
implementation of the decentralization law; and (c) modernizing of the SEC and strengthening
the administrative capacity of the Project's municipalities, mainly through the Municipal
Improvement Plan (MIP). The second sub-component - Designing and Implementing a Quality
Evaluation System at the Departmental Level - included: (d) technical assistance, training and
studies to design and implement an education quality evaluation system to monitor compliance
with ongoing education policies and strategies; (e) the application of measurement instruments



4At the time of Project preparation, there were several ongoing successful experiences of partnerships
between some municipal schools with representatives from the flower, industrial and coffee sectors in
Cundinamarca. The Project aimed at systematizing and institutionalizing these partnerships and gradually
scale them up to more municipalities and other sectors of the Department's economic landscape.




                                                  6

and the processing of information; (f) the acquisition of appropriate software; (g) training for the
adequate use of results by different education levels; and (h) dissemination of results.

The following key output indicators appear in Annex 1 to the PAD for Component B: (a)
strengthening departmental and municipal education management measured by the degree to
which Law 715 was being complied by the SEC and Project municipalities; (b) number of Project
municipalities implementing their Educational Development Plan in conformance with the
Department's 10-year plan, as compared with the baseline information of January 2004; and (c)
degree to which the SEC and Project municipalities were using the learning assessment results as
well as the educational statistics to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Department's
education sector.

Component C ­ Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. This Component included
support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and implementation through: (a)
strengthening the capacity of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to comply with its envisaged
responsibilities; (b) carrying out Project-related studies and audits, and (c) designing and
implementing a Project-related monitoring and evaluation scheme.

The key output indicators at the management level were the existence of a monitoring and
evaluation system, the use of the project's Operations Manuals, and the ability to use the
reporting mechanisms to inform the decision-making process.

Table 1 shows the original Project costs and all sources of funding as they appeared in the PAD.

                Table 1. Original expected costs and sources of financing at appraisal
                    Components                            Total           Bank     Government     % of
                                                       indicative       financing  counterpart    Bank
                                                          Costs         (US$M)      (US$M)      financing
                                                        (US$M)                        (5)         (2)/(1)
                                                           (1)             (2)
 A. Improving School Management to                        16.50           11.55       4.95         70
    Enhance Education Quality and
    Relevance.                                             3.69           2.56        1.13         70
 B. Institutional Strengthening to Improve
    Internal and External Efficiency                       1.06           0.74        0.32         70
 C. Project Management, Monitoring and
    Evaluation.                                            0.15           0.15        0.00         100
 Loan fee
 Total project costs                                      21.40           15.00       6.40         70
Source: Annex 2 of the PAD (Report No 25933-CO), July 10, 2003. The World Bank.
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 7192-CO. September 30, 2003




1.6 Revised Components
In the second half of 2004 the newly elected authorities of the Cundinamarca Department
requested changes to the original components and strategies included in the Project design. After
a thorough discussion and an in-depth analysis (as further detailed in sections 2.2, 5.1(b) and
5.2(b) of the ICR), the Bank agreed to incorporate these modifications partially in a proposed
amendment to the LA in early 2005.                    These changes did not modify the original Project
developmental objectives nor the financial and procurement procedures agreed in the signed LA.




                                                          7

Although the proposed amendment got the clearance of the Bank's Legal and Procurement
Departments to proceed with the approval of the Country Director, it never materialized as the
process got held back first by serious procurement issues (further explained in section 5.2 (b) of
the ICR) and then, by the request of the Cundinamarca Governor to cancel the loan5.

The proposed amendment aimed at changing the focus of Project implementation, especially for
Component A. For this reason, this section explains the basic characteristics of the proposed
amendment, even though, from a legal point of view, no changes of the original components ever
took place.

First, the concept of "Partnership Subproject" included in the original Component A, sub-
component (d) was to be replaced by a new concept of "Productive Subproject". This change
indicated that the new authorities were not willing to continue with the implementation of school
partnerships with the productive sector.

Second, the Borrower wanted to reflect for Component A that improving school management to
enhance education quality and relevance was to be sought mainly through the implementation of
the quality improvement model called "Ambientes de Aprendizaje" - (AA), meaning in English
"learning environment" to be provided in specially equipped multimedia classrooms called Aulas
Mixtas (AM). This new approach (further detailed in Section 10.2 (b) of the ICR), consistent with
the original development objectives, was to be considered subject to: (i) completion of an
evaluation study requested by the Bank of an ongoing pilot (fully financed by the Borrower with
their own resources outside Project funds); and (ii) timely presentation by the Borrower of a
gradual scaling plan, the contents for all the curricular areas under the AA/AM pedagogical
strategy and an operational plan detailing the training to be provided to teachers and school
principals integrated to the PEIs.

As further mentioned in Section 5.1(b) of the ICR, in addition to the above, the Borrower
requested the inclusion of the following two new components, which were not considered: (i)
support for vocational and technical education; and (ii) post-graduate education (master and
doctoral levels) for teachers.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
As the Project implementation came to a practical stand still as of the second semester of 2004,
and the rest of the time until cancellation, the Bank and the Borrower were mostly devoted to
agree on a failed proposed LA amendment, there are no comments in this section.




5After the Bank team, supported by the National Department of Planning (Departamento Nacional de
Planeación (DNP), categorically refused a request by the Borrower to transfer the procurement
responsibility from the PCU within SEC to the office of the Governor and to relax the procurement
procedures as specified in Annex 4 to the LA allowing for more direct contracting independently of the
amount of the purchase, the Government of Cundinamarca requested the DNP authorization to cancel the
Bank loan.    The DNP tried unsuccessfully to convince the Borrower to consider the option of the
amendment to ensure continuity of Project implementation, but at the insistence of the Borrower to proceed
with the Loan cancellation, DNP was finally forced to concede. The official request of Loan cancellation
was sent to the Bank on June 7, 2006 and the loan cancelled the day after.




                                                  8

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
This and the following sections in the ICR were written based on: (i) the Project files; (ii) the
findings of the network Quality Enhancement Review (QER) process on February 3-4-, 2003
during Project preparation; and (iii) the findings of a field mission to Bogotá on October 4-6,
2006, which included interviews with key Project-related authorities in the period 2002-2006,
consultants that were hired under the Project and a visit to one AM in the Project's municipality
of Tocancipá. Quality at Entry of the Project has been assessed along the topics appearing in bold
in the following paragraphs.

Client orientation and timing of the lending process. The project files indicate that during
Project preparation, the Bank demonstrated sensitivity and commitment to results that were in the
Borrower's best interest. The Bank's team approach was consistent with that of the Colombian
Government and the Cundinamarca Department's educational policies and conceptual strategies
existing at that moment and reflected in the National Development Plan (Hacia un Estado
Comunitario), the National Education Plan (Revolución Educativa) and the Departments
Development Plan 2001-2004.       In addition, during preparation the Borrower prepared in a
participatory fashion, the Department's Ten-Year Educational Plan 2003-2012 (Plan Decenal de
Educación de Cundinamarca), as further described in section 10.2(a) of the ICR.           Project
preparation activities were one additional input in the conception of the Ten-Year Educational
Plan. A US$300,000 Japanese Grant financed the preparation of the Plan Decenal.

Project preparation, which began in April 2002 (identification mission) to December 31, 2003
(loan effectiveness) including Board approval on August 19, 2003, coincided with the final period
of the elected Government of Cundinamarca, thus increasing the risk of lack of implementation
continuity with an incoming elected administration expected to take office in January 2004. As it
turned out, for political and other reasons, the new administration did not fully endorse the
Project design as detailed in Annex 2 of the PAD and Schedule 2 to the LA. In retrospect, it
appears that the incoming administration clearly preferred collecting political dividends from
highly visible investments in equipping classrooms with computers and multimedia than with
long-term, and not so visible improvements in quality of education (as measured by increased
learning achievements in language, math, social and exact sciences in Project schools in targeted
municipalities).   The new Governor was apparently displeased with the slow physical and
financial implementation progress shown by the Project as of mid-2004 onwards and the
commitment fees charged on the loan's undisbursed balance.

Lessons learned incorporated in the Project. Project design was built upon the lessons learned
from several educational reforms experiences of relevant Bank and non-Bank financed operations
since the mid-nineties in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and New Zealand. In particular, five
lessons were incorporated from the successful Chile Mece Básica and Mece Media as well as the
Colombia Antioquia, Pasto Educational and Rural Education Bank-financed Projects.

First, a demand-driven approach was included in the Project design correctly assuming that the
most appropriate solutions to improve the quality issues in a school need to branch out
necessarily from the school's stakeholders (in this case, through the PEIs). Likewise, the most
appropriate interventions to improve municipal management need to emerge from their
stakeholders (in this case, through the MIPs and specific improvement projects). This is turn,



                                               9

demanded a highly participatory strategy to get the stakeholders at the school (and municipal)
levels actively involved in articulating education (managerial) inputs and processes within the
framework of the PEIs (MIPs), another feature included in the Project design. The school
principal played a key leadership role in this participatory process ensuring ownership of the
Project's design among other participating school and municipal actors. The Project also sought
to promote partnerships between educational institutions, the economic sector and the civil
society (see footnote 3 in the ICR).

Second, the design assumed the school (the municipality) as the unit of holistic interventions
emerging from the PEIs (MIPs) and school (municipal) autonomy as the appropriate
environmental conducive context to implement these interventions. The third important lesson
factored in the Project design was the one referred to the role of the SEC in terms of a supplier of
technical assistance and facilitation services in a targeted fashion to high-risk project schools and
municipalities, rather than supplier and micro-manager of improvement-related and prescribed
interventions.

The fourth lesson, was to ensure that all the Project activities be implemented and monitored by
mainstream institutions within SEC, especially Project schools and municipalities, avoiding the
setting up of parallel implementation structures. The only exception was the establishment of a
small PCU to function as an entry point in the periodic interactions between the Borrower and the
Bank. Finally, the original Project design placed high importance on monitoring and evaluation
which would allow for corrective or preventive measures during the implementation cycle.

Technical and institutional aspects.        Project preparation was grounded on solid technical
evidence of what works and what does not in terms of improving quality and relevance of
education at the school and changing and enhancing school management practices at lower
decision-making levels, as mentioned above.         Preparation profited from a thorough results-
framework workshop facilitated by the Bank that ensured cohesion among the many participating
and guided the preparation process as well as a cost-benefit analysis whose main findings appear
in Annex 4 to the PAD. This analysis concluded that if an additional year of education could be
reached in the Department of Cundinamarca with the quality improvement aimed by the Project,
the cost-benefit ratio would be on the order of 16 and the internal rate of return of about 35
percent.

The recommendations made at the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) further strengthened the
relevance of the Project design. The QER panel recommended fine-tuning the teacher training
activities included under Component A and simplifying the proposed integrated management
information system included under Component B.

As mentioned before, during preparation, the Borrower prepared the Plan Decenal, under a
participative scheme. This Plan became an indicative navigational chart during the preparation
and implementation of the PEIs, ensuring appropriate articulation with the MIPs and the SEC and
cohesion of the different teams working in the preparation process. This plan was aligned with
other ongoing macro Departmental Plans and related-projects6.




6 The Cundinamarca Development Plan 2001-2004; the Rural Education Project in Cundinamarca; the
Quality Improvement Project; the Education for Work Project; and the Network Project of Public Libraries.




                                               10

An institutional capacity assessment was carried out by a qualified consulting firm in a sample of
municipalities and the SEC, identifying gaps to be addressed by the Project. At the same time,
another study was contracted to target the poorest and more at risk municipalities to be included
in the Project. The thorough public debt analysis for the Department of Cundinamarca was
carried out during preparation and the findings in terms of fiscal impact were amply presented in
Annex 5 of the PAD. Accordingly, even though the indebtedness of the Department had grown
significantly in the past few years prior to preparation, the actual debt level incurred by the
proposed Project showed no negative impact on the finances of the Cundinamarca Department.
All these studies are listed in Annex 12 of the ICR.

The Project was prepared in a participatory manner with school, municipal and departmental
stakeholders. A social assessment was carried by SEC with a variety of internal and external
stakeholders and potential beneficiaries through a combination of individual interviews, focus
groups meetings, workshops and site visits. The participants represented a wide selection of
organizations including teachers, school principals, teacher's unions, private schools, private
companies, parents' organizations, non-governmental organizations, and municipal and
departmental authorities.

An almost-finalized version of an Operational Manual was made available to the Bank at the time
of Project appraisal. The conditions for loan effectiveness were limited to the following three: (i)
final version of the Operational Manual approved by the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) at least five
Participation Agreements signed between SEC, the targeted municipalities and the schools; and
(iii) an external qualified auditing firm hired based on Terms of Reference satisfactory to the
Bank. The fact that these were the only conditions for loan effectiveness implies that the Project
was almost ready to be implemented at the time of Board approval, as it was confirmed during the
first semester of 2004.

Three shortcomings were identified in the preparation process. First, the timing of the lending
process which coincided with the end of an administration. In this context, there was a significant
risk that a new administration would not endorse a Project of a previous administration that had
not yet proven cost-effectiveness due to its short or non-existent implementation history. There
are cases, like the Antioquia and Pasto Projects, where this did not happen and the new
administrations fully endorsed Project implementation. There are however other examples, like
this project and the Colombia Community Works and Employment Project (Loan 7017-CO) that
confirm the point of new administrations changing gears despite the existence of external
financing.

The second shortcoming is the lack of a baseline data at the time of loan effectiveness. The
baseline was available six months after the effectiveness. At the present time, all projects
submitted for Board approval provide baseline data in Annex 1 of the PAD for the agreed
outcome and output indicators (this point is further explained in section 2.3 of the ICR). Finally,
no indicator was included in Annex 1 of the PAD for the developmental objective related to
improved external efficiency of the education sector.

Based on the above strengths and few limitations shown during the lending phase, the ICR team
ranks the Quality at Entry of this Project as satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)



                                               11

The Bank loan providing financing for the Project was approved on August 19, 2003. The LA
was signed on September 30, 2003 and declared effective on December 30, 2003. The original
closing date was expected to be on April 30, 2008. In January 2004, a newly elected Government
took office in the Department of Cundinamarca. The implementation assessment that follows is
organized following three time periods.

The first period, comprising from loan effectiveness to mid-2004, was a period where Project
implementation was carried out satisfactorily as presented in the PAD and the LA. During this
period, the Bank supervision mission of March 29 ­ April 4, 2004 reported a good start to
implementation as further explained in Annex 2 of the ICR. The new administration indicated its
full commitment to the Project concept, strategy and developmental objectives, and even stressed
their interest in expanding the Project's approach to the universe of public schools in the
remaining 116 municipalities of the Department with their own resources.                 The qualified
consulting firms to provide technical assistance for the preparation of PEIs and MIPs as well as to
prepare the baseline data had been selected and contracted to carry out their tasks. Likewise, the
qualified consultant to prepare the Project's impact evaluation scheme had also been contracted.
Finally, the technical specifications for the acquisition of some learning goods (robotic
laboratories, training materials for teachers to use the Internet and learning materials to prepare
students from the 11th grade for the tertiary level admission test) were also prepared during this
period.

The second implementation period began in the middle of 2004 when the Bank first observed and
recorded clear signals that the Borrower had intentions to drastically change the original Project
design to include instead its own pedagogical agenda and have loan funds finance this new
strategy. This second period lasted until April 2006 when the champion of this proposed Project
redesign, the Secretary of Education of Cundinamarca, resigned from her post. During the second
time-period, with the exception of the acquisitions of learning goods mentioned above, the
Borrower practically stopped implementing the project as designed. Instead, Borrower's focus
centered in the execution of a pedagogical strategy known as "Learning environment", using the
technological classrooms as the implementation instrument with its own budgetary resources
outside Project funds' framework (Section 5.2(b) of the ICR further describes the AA/AM
approach).

In order to partially accommodate some of the Borrower's technical request, the Bank began to
consider a loan amendment as a feasible option to restart project implementation activities. To
proceed with the loan amendment, the Bank team accepted to use Project funds during part of
2004 and 2005 to finance: (i) the evaluation study of an ongoing pilot in some of the 254 AMs
(some of them located in 26 Project municipalities) to assess the strengths and weaknesses of this
approach7; and (ii) the hiring of qualified consultants to start preparing the curricular contents of
this learning model.

Despite all the efforts, including continuous meetings (about three per month), by the Task Team
Leader (TTL) located in Bogotá, and the flexibility displayed by the Bank during this second
period in trying to process a loan amendment to accommodate the adjustments required by the
new authorities without undermining the key principles and developmental objectives of the



7 The preliminary findings of this evaluation study, completed after the loan was cancelled, were shared
with the ICR Bank and are briefly described in section 5.2(b) of the ICR.




                                                 12

original Project as well as the financial and procurement procedures consigned in the LA, it
proved impossible to finalize the amendment, and consequently, to carry on with Project
implementation.

The third period cycle covers from April 2006 until the loan cancellation on June 8, 2006. This
last cycle is mostly characterized by the arrival of a new Secretary of Education for
Cundinamarca mandated by the Department's Governor to proceed with the cancellation of the
loan. The official request for loan cancellation was received on June 7, 2006 and the loan
cancellation became effective on June 8, 2006.

The following five factors were identified as leading to the loan cancellation:

(a) As of mid-2004 it became obvious to the Bank that the new administration did not fully
endorse the original Project design for the following three reasons.         First, the Project was
conceived and agreed by a previous administration considered as a political adversary by the new
authorities. Second, the new administration was interested in introducing a new pedagogical
model heavily dependent on the use of information technology platform and intended to use the
Project as a way to provide schools with computers. Third, the new authorities perceived more
political gains through their own pedagogical initiative than that of the project Thus there was a
palpable lack of commitment and ownership of the Project by the new authorities;

(b) As reported in the Project Supervision Reports (PSR) and Implementation Status and Results
(ISR) of 2004 and 2005, the new administration resisted complying with the Bank's procurement
rules and financial controls linked to the use of Loan proceeds as established in the LA;

(c) The AA/AM proposal was, in the technical opinion of the Bank, abstract, very academic
oriented and lacked an operational implementation plan. The Bank objected to the: (i) heavy
dependency of the AA/AM model on a technological platform; (ii) excessive unit cost of the AM
(US$40,000), making it financially unfeasible to scale it up to a significant number of municipal
schools in the Department; and (iii) favoring of equipping one school in the municipality and one
grade within the school in detriment of the rest of the schools in the municipality and the rest of
the grades within the school, thus inducing increased inequity. The original proposal to include a
Project activity dealing with "appropriate coexistence in the school" to address the psychological
stress caused by the violence was practically removed by the new administration.       Likewise, the
activities geared to foster leadership at the school and municipal levels were also lost;

(d) The Governor transformed the role of SEC, taking away much of its original responsibility of
policy orientation and resource management in the education sector of the Department; and

(e) Under the new strategy proposed by SEC, there was weak involvement of the education
community at large (principals, teachers, parents, municipal secretaries of education) thus
reversing the demand-driven and participatory ethos of the original Project design with a top-
down prescriptive approach for the improvement of the quality and relevance of education.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Key outcome and output performance indicators, as well as the procedures to establish the
baseline data were agreed with the Borrower before negotiations and listed in Annex 1 of the
PAD. Once negotiations were completed and retroactive financing agreed on some eligible
expenditures, the Borrower set in motion the process to select a qualified consulting firm for the
establishment of the Project's baseline information. The selection process took place under the


                                                13

previous Government, but the contract was signed by the new one. The baseline information was
thoroughly completed at the end of 2004 and first reported in ISR #5 dated April 29, 2005.

Likewise, the Borrower selected and contracted in early 2004, the qualified consultant to design
the Project's impact evaluation scheme. This scheme has been designed, but was never validated
nor implemented.

At the time the new ISRs were announced in 2005 by Bank management as the instrument to
report the findings of field supervision missions, a directive was made by Operation Policy of the
Bank to limit the number of outcome and output indicators in the ISR to no more than 5 each.
Accordingly, some outcome and output indicators included in Annex 1 of the PAD were omitted
by the Bank team in the ISRs reporting, yet some of them are reported in section 3.2 of the ICR
with updated information.

Finally, the ICR team observed that no indicator to measure the impact on improving the external
efficiency of education, included in the Project Development Objectives perhaps through tracer
studies of graduates of upper secondary education, was ever included in the PAD neither in the
PSR/ISR reporting.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
A procurement assessment of the PCU to implement Project procurement-related activities was
carried out in the context of Project preparation. A series of recommendations to improve the
procurement management activities were factored in the Project design. Likewise, a financial
management assessment was carried out by the Bank and recommendations provided to
strengthen the financial monitoring and reporting related to Project implementation. Concerning
the environmental safeguards, the Project was rated category C, since it did not include financing
for school construction or remodeling and thus, no negative environmental impacts were expected
as a result of implementation.

The Bank detected through the supervision missions as early as the second semester of 2004 that
there were serious issues concerning the Borrower following Bank procurement procedures.
Accordingly, in December 2004 the rating for implementation progress and compliance with
agreed procurement procedures was downgraded to unsatisfactory.

With respect to the Project's financial management, the only audit report that was received and
reviewed by the Bank was the one for CY04, submitted with delay. This report provided the
following findings: (i) weaknesses in the internal controls and accounting policies and procedures
which were rated moderately unsatisfactory; (ii) the internal auditing was found unsatisfactory;
(iii) the financial management reports were rated moderately satisfactory; (iv) the budgeting
system was rated unsatisfactory; (v) the financial management information system was
considered as moderately unsatisfactory; and (vi) the compliance with financial management
covenants were moderately unsatisfactory. The Audit Report, which was unqualified (clean) for
the Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds and for the Statement of Cumulative Investments,
found as satisfactory the eligibility of the limited amount of expenditures incurred in 2004. On
the basis of this Audit Report made available to the Bank in the second semester of 2005, the
Bank in December 2005 downgraded the Project's financial management rating from satisfactory
to moderately unsatisfactory. The audit report corresponding to CY05 (to June 2006) has not
been submitted to the Bank yet. The Client has notified the Bank it will be submitted at the end
of March 2007.



                                               14

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
As mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, no relevant activities included in the original Project design
were implemented as of mid-2004 onwards, thus there are no Project post-completion activities to
be contemplated by either the Borrower or the Bank.

The Borrower requested the loan cancellation on the grounds that the Cundinamarca Department
had sufficient financial budgetary resources to carry out the Project. It does not seem that this
argument holds true at present. The Bank's final supervision mission recorded that they believed
that the financial track record of the new administration did not sufficiently support their claim
that they would be able to continue with the implementation of this Project with their own
resources.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The Project's design was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia
(Report 25129-CO), discussed and approved by the Board on January 16, 2003. Accordingly, the
Project, through improved equity in education quality and enhanced relevance and sector
efficiency, was intended to contribute to the achievement of some of the CAS' objectives,
namely: (i) meeting the targets for the Millennium Development Goals; (ii) fostering fast and
sustainable growth to be shared by all Colombians; and (iii) inducing a more efficient,
accountable and transparent governance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
Given the unfortunate circumstances concerning the end of the Project's short implementation
cycle, there is no information available concerning the impact of the Project towards the
achievement of the two developmental objectives stated in section 1.2, namely, to improve: (a)
the quality and relevance of the Borrower's education system; and (b) the internal and external
efficiency of education at the departmental, municipal and school levels in the Department of
Cundinamarca (the Borrower's territory). Accordingly, the ICR rates the achievement of the
Project development objectives as highly unsatisfactory.

Baseline data for most of the outcome and output impact indicators for the Project schools and
municipalities including a comparable control group were made available at the end of 2004
through a very rigorous analytical process and first reported by Bank's supervision on April 29,
2005. Some of these indicators were recently updated and the information reported in the
datasheet of the ICR.

Even though some of these indicators show a slight improvement at the end of 2005 the ICR
cannot make any inferences about the contribution or causal link between Project-financed
activities and the change in outcome indicators explained below as no proper impact evaluation
(with a treatment and comparable control group comprised by targeted and untargeted
municipalities and Project and non-Project schools of similar socio-economic conditions) could




                                              15

be conducted due to the premature loan cancellation. Nevertheless, the updated information is
presented and the changes commented upon, without implying causality.

The learning outcome in mathematics for grade 9 in project schools increased about 4.8 percent.
The increase in language was about 6.3 percent. For grade 5, there is an increase of 6.5 percent in
mathematics and 1.2 percent in language.

                               Mathematics in %                         Language in %
                           Grade 5           Grade 9              Grade 5             Grade 9
  Baseline (2002)           55.0               57.9                 57.8                61.5
      Latest
    observation             58.6               60.7                 58.5                65.4
       (2005

The following two outcome indicators were not reported in the ISRs, one of which has updated
information and the other does not: (i) participating schools and municipalities provide general
evidence of the impact of their projects on educational processes and quality of education (no
information available); and (ii) all the schools in the municipalities participating in the Project
will seek an increase in the scores of the students in the national test for grade 11 from low to
medium level. For the latter one, the ICFES test administered in 11th grade for admission to
higher education actually shows a decline in public schools in targeted municipalities from an
average 44.19 percent in 2003 to 42.58 percent in 2005.


Due to the new format of ISR , the following important output indicators were omitted, but they
should be taken into consideration when looking at the results of the project.

    · Component A : (iii) 175 rural and urban principals involved in the Project and 1,465
        members of the school using the information management system as a tool to improve
        activities like planning and management of schools (no information available); (iv) about
        7,200 students in 180 schools working in 72 partnerships with the productive sectors and
        civil society (no information available because the corresponding activity was never
        implemented); and (v) 72 projects approved with participation of the private sector (same
        situation as the previous one).

    · Component B: (vi) the SEC and the municipalities participating in the Project are
        carrying out the new responsibilities and competencies assigned in the Decentralization
        Law (Law 715) (no information available); (vii) 50 targeted municipalities with MIPs and
        Project schools with PEIs oriented to enhance management and improve quality,
        relevance and equity of education with financial resources assigned (34 municipalities
        developed their MIPs and a cluster of Project schools in 44 targeted municipalities,
        comprising 106 institutions, have developed their PEIs along their improvement and
        investment plans which have not yet been implemented due to lack of Project funding
        and support by SEC to execute Project activities); and (viii) both, the Department and the
        municipalities participating in the Project have and use the information system with
        appropriate indicators to measure the internal efficiency of the education system (this
        system works and provides yearly information as shown in section 3.3 of the ICR).

    · Component C: Manuals are properly used by SEC, eligible municipalities and the schools
        (no information available but suspected to be zero as the corresponding activity was
        never implemented).


                                             16

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
The ICR team found some updated information concerning efficiency indicators.                Like the
learning outcomes, for the reasons explained in bold in section 3.2 of the ICR, no inferences
about the contribution or causal link between Project activities and the change in these outcome
indicators could be made. Nevertheless, the updated information is presented and the changes
commented upon, without implying causality.

In terms of project efficiency at the beginning of the project there were some key factors that
contributed to the efficiency of the project: (i) participatory approach; (ii) in-line staff in charge
of project management; (iii) consultations with teachers, principals and mayors, and (iv) proactive
communication strategy.

There are some signs of slight increase in the efficiency of the education sector in Cundinamarca.
The average repetition rate for grades 1 to 11 in Project municipalities decreased from 5.52
percent in 2003 to 4.9 percent in 2005. This decrease of 11.23 percent is slightly higher than the
goal set at appraisal of 10 percent. The average dropout rate for grades 1 to 11 in Project
municipalities remained practically the same in the period 2003-2005 amounting to 7.2 percent,
and thus, the target set at appraisal was not achieved. Finally the student teacher ratio in rural
areas in Project municipalities slightly decreased from 22.45 in 2003 to 22 in 2005, while in
urban schools the increase went from 25.37 to 27. For the rural case, the target set at appraisal
was achieved, but not for the urban case.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

The ICR, coincidental with the last two Project ISRs, ranks the Project's overall outcome as
highly unsatisfactory, given its erratic implementation leading to at least three drastic changes of
directions and an early cancellation of the Loan, plus the unavailability of hard and reliable data
to ascertain if the Project was moving towards the intended direction.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
No data was available in the Project files to provide comments on this point.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The most severe negative impact of the outcome of this Project has been that the expectations for
improvement and motivation built with the stakeholders from participating municipalities and
Project schools during Project preparation were totally unmet during implementation.              The
negative impact concerns the increased mistrust that these stakeholders currently have of the
Departmental authorities in the unlikely case that in the near future a serious attempt is launched
one more time to improve education quality, relevance and management.

Available evidence points to the fact that the current administration in Cundinamarca is moving
contrary to the principles incorporated in the original Project design. The bottom-up, demand-
driven approach to improve education quality and relevance at the school level through the
development and implementation of PEIs by school stakeholders seems to have been replaced by



                                               17

a top-down, supply-driven logic imbedded in the AA/AM pedagogical model (heavily dependent
on a computer technological platform), which ironically after the departure of its champion (the
previous Secretary of Education) in April 2006, is in turn also at a standstill. The participation
scheme through which municipal teams were to propose managerial improvement plans and
specific projects to compete for funds has been practically abandoned by SEC.

On the positive side, the Project produced 106 PEIs and 34 MIPs with their corresponding
investment plan awaiting funds to be implemented. This effort financed by the Project under its
original design in the first semester of 2004 constitutes a solid platform for improvement, in case
the SEC authorities are willing and committed to undertake the effort in a demand-driven fashion.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None other to be reported by the ICR.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Not applicable for this Core ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: For all reasons described above, Project development outcomes were barely achieved.
Nonetheless, the ICR team considers that there is high risk that the development outcomes
expected by the Project that were fulfilled will not be maintained after the loan cancellation.

To the credit of the Bank, as early as June 2003, the risks imbedded in the political transition with
a new Governor taking office in January 2004 were flagged.             The Mission's concern was
reflected in the Back-to-Office Report of June 21, 2003 as well as in Section F2 of the PAD,
where this risk was ranked as high.       Mitigation measures were proposed in the PAD, but
unfortunately did not work with the current administration pursuing a different pedagogical
agenda.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project was identified in April and May of 2002, appraised about one year later in June 2003,
negotiated in July 2003 in Bogotá and approved by the Board on August 19, 2003. Project
preparation activities were mostly financed by a Japanese PHRD Grant (TF 51358) in the amount
of US$300,000, approved on August 9, 2002 and implemented from October 2002 onwards.
Actual preparation expenditures under the Grant amounted to US$284,103 (94.7 percent of the
original amount). The Trust Funds Status Reports indicated a satisfactory rating implementation
of this Grant. About 75 percent of the Grant proceeds were spent in preparing component A,
approximately 9 percent in component B, about 7 percent in component C, 5 percent in assorted
project preparation-related training activities and 4 percent in acquisition of computers. One
important Project preparation activity carried under the Japanese Grant was to support the


                                              18

development of the Cundinamarca Ten-Year Education Plan, which provided guidance and
cohesion to the different technical groups involved in the lending phase.

As mentioned in section 1.1 of the ICR, quality at entry of preparation was considered
satisfactory. This is largely the result of the presence throughout the entire project preparation
cycle of an experienced core Bank team. This team knew how to blend appropriately the best
practices known worldwide to improve education quality and relevance at the school level, as
well as managerial procedures at the school, municipalities and Departmental levels with the
Bank requirements in ensuring a solid and meaningful investment proposal. The team was also
skilled in facilitating a highly participatory Project preparation design and implementation
strategy.

The Bank's project preparation team needs to be credited with its contribution to produce a
Project design directly linked to the CAS, results-oriented, with realistic and measurable outcome
and output indicators and with an appropriate monitoring and evaluation measuring system. All
these planning and project preparation characteristics are consistent with the Bank's current
mandate for the processing of all new investments in all sectors worldwide.

With a four-year election cycle, the risk of political change is always important. The project
preparation team took several risk mitigation measures to facilitate the transition from one
administration to the other, but in this case it proved not sufficient. Accordingly, in the 18
months before the change of government, the project preparation team met with the main
candidates in order to sensitize them to the issues to be addressed by the project. There was also a
lot of consultation with the communities and schools participating in the project. There were no
indications at the time that the new administration would become so negative towards the
previous administration's education program.

For the above reasons the ICR team rates as satisfactory the performance of the Bank at the
lending stage.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Ratings: Satisfactory

The loan was signed one month after Board approval (September 30, 2003) and became effective
a little over 4 months thereafter (December 30, 2003). This relatively short period of time
elapsing between Board approval and Loan effectiveness, when compared to other lending
processes in the Bank, and in particular in the education sector in LAC (that take significantly
more time to become effective), is an indication that the Bank preparation team took the
necessary steps to address,       before negotiations, all    pending elements identified during
preparation that could have hindered implementation readiness.

The Project, launched in October        2003, was supervised formally five times until Loan
cancellation. On average, two formal field supervision missions were carried out annually during
the 30 month life-span of this Project. The supervision missions included the appropriate skill-
mix to carry out their envisaged terms of reference. The day-to-day supervision of this operation
benefited from the presence of the TTL and other sector-related Bank staff, all of them located in
the country office in Bogotá, which carried out continuous meetings with the Borrower and the
Guarantor (about three per month). Supervision reports were updated, on average, every semester.




                                               19

A mid-term review, originally planned for October 2005, was never carried out. Instead, an in-
depth technical review of the modifications the Borrower intended to introduce to the original
Project design was carried-out in the second quarter of 2005 with the aim of agreeing on a
possible amendment to the LA.

One TTL was in charge of the lending and supervision of this Project until loan cancellation. In
addition, the core team of seasoned consultants, with equal tenure ensured the needed continuity
during the entire implementation cycle from the time this operation was conceptualized until it
was cancelled.

The quality and pertinence of the information in the seven PSRs/ISRs, including the ratings
assigned, are satisfactory and reflect the reality of the physical and financial implementation
progress as well as compliance with the covenants of the LA. The findings of each supervision
mission were conveyed to Bank management clearly and in a straightforward fashion, including
the implementation shortcomings and potential risks assessed by the Bank team.

During the early months of project implementation the Bank team gathered encouraging signs
suggesting a satisfactory rating for the project developmental objectives and project
implementation and reflected these in the first three PSRs. However, the Bank team rightly and
objectively downgraded these indicators the moment it became clear that the new Cundinamarca
Departmental authorities had an agenda contradicting the principles and procedures of the
original Project design.

The Bank's supervision teams displayed significant degree of sensitivity and flexibility to adjust
the Project to the existing contextual changes proposed by the new Departmental administration.
Accordingly, the Bank financed an in-depth analysis of the new AA/AM technical proposal put
forward by the educational authorities. Some of the relevant findings of this review were that: (i)
the new proposal was, in terms of educational policy, similar to the one developed by the
previous administration focusing on improved access, retention, quality, relevance and equity as
well as institutional strengthening at the Departmental and municipal levels and (ii) the most
substantial change had to do with the implementation strategy which aimed to rely on a quality
improvement model called "Ambiente de Aprendizajes"(Learning environment) heavily
dependent on the use of a computer technology platform and which the new administration had
started to pilot. The proposal included two new components to support vocational and technical
education and to finance post-graduate education (master and doctoral levels) for teachers, which
the Bank team, as well as the DNP, rejected.

Despite enormous political pressure placed by the Cundinamarca Government to alter the
fundamental Project design and to modify procurement and financial procedures set for in the LA,
Bank supervision teams never gave in to what was seen as an inferior alternative. At the same
time, the Bank team showed flexibility and client sensitivity in trying to accommodate the
Borrower's technical request in a proposed loan amendment.             Weighting these supervision
strengths, including their straightforward reporting of the situation to Bank management, the ICR
rates the Bank supervision performance as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above lending and supervision observations and ratings, the ICR rates the overall
Bank performance as satisfactory.



                                              20

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

At the lending stage. The Project was prepared in a record time of less than one year through a
participatory process involving a core of qualified staff selected from SEC, ensuring in the
process, the Borrower's full commitment and ownership.

Two relevant activities guided and strengthened the preparation phase and provided cohesion to
the different project preparation teams composed by school principals (many of whom took a
leading role in the process), teachers, municipal authorities, SEC staff and some consultants,
leading to the preparation of a very innovative and robust design: (i) a logical framework
workshop facilitated by the Bank; and (ii) the Department's Ten-Year Educational Plan (2003-
2012) prepared in a participatory fashion with the above-mentioned stakeholders and completed
in July 2003. These two activities: (a) addressed the initial asymmetries between the least
experienced and the most skilled members of the preparation team; and (b) contributed to lower
the initial resistance to the Project-envisaged design, especially from school supervisors with a
long tenure in the Department's education sector.

The proposed design was backed by a series of thoroughly conducted studies contracted with
qualified consulting firms and/or individuals already mentioned in section 1.1 and listed in Annex
9 of the ICR. The robustness of the Project design made it easy for the National Council of
Economic and Social Policy of the Colombian Government (Consejo Nacional de Política
Económica y Social - CONPES) to provide its clearance to proceed with appraisal and
negotiations.

An excellent rapport and transparent and timely communication was displayed between the
Borrower and the Bank teams during the entire lending phase.

Rating: No major project preparation issues arose during the lending process. Accordingly, the
ICR team is of the view that the Borrower's performance at the lending stage ranks as highly
satisfactory.

At the implementation stage. To assess this section, it is important to distinguish between the
performance of the Guarantor (the National Government through the Ministry of Finance and the
DNP) from the Borrower (through the SEC and other Secretaries involved in the implementation
cycle, like the Department's Secretary of Finance and the Legal Unit).

The ICR confirms the support provided by the Guarantor to the Bank team during the critical
months going from mid-2004 to the third quarter of 2005 to have the Borrower agree on an
amendment to the LA and ensure compliance with the financial and procurement procedures set
forward in the LA. When the DNP received from the Borrower an official request for loan
cancellation in September 2005, efforts were still made by them for several months to have the
Borrower rescind with this request and opt for the loan amendment until the point that the
political pressure exercised by the Governor led to the clearance to proceed with the request to the
Bank in June 2006. For the above-mentioned reasons, the ICR rates the Guarantor performance
at implementation as satisfactory.

SEC, representing the Borrower, was also the implementing agency. A PCU, which was made an
integral part of SEC, was envisaged to be SEC's operational unit dealing with the day-to-day
Project-related managerial responsibilities.     Accordingly, there were three Secretaries of


                                              21

Education and six Project Coordinators (three of them in acting capacity) during the entire
lending and implementation cycle until the loan cancellation.

The tenure of the first Secretary comprised the entire lending cycle and came to an end at loan
effectiveness, coincidental with the arrival of the newly elected Government of Cundinamarca.
As mentioned in the previous section, this period is characterized by the preparation of a
technically solid and very innovative Project.

The second Secretary was in office from January 2004 to April 2006 and was responsible for
stalling Project implementation in order to pursue her own agenda of having the loan finance the
AA/AM scheme8. In a relatively short time during the first semester of 2004, she also completely
overhauled the core technical and managerial team in charge of Project preparation and replaced
them with incoming staff, most of them unfamiliar with the Project, the LA and Bank procedures.
She also objected to the selection of the targeted municipalities, on the basis that, according to her,
the Project had to cover the totality of 116 municipalities. She was also behind the huge
acquisition of 254 AMs costing about US$10 million equivalent (23 billion Colombian pesos) to
one provider financed by the Department's own resources outside Project funds and using
national procurement laws9.

The third Secretary of Education that has been in office since April 2006 was mandated to
process the loan cancellation and has been faced with how best address the consolidation of the
inherited AA/AM scheme in 254 municipal school under almost no budgetary resources nor
technical staff. Borrower's contribution to the ICR was received on December 8, 2006.

As reported in several PSRs/ISRs, the implementation cycle is also characterized by delays in
allocating the counterpart funding by the Department's Secretary of Finance. The Bank was
informed of payment delays of about six months to PCU personnel during 2004. In addition, and
mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, the Department's Legal Unit also significantly delayed
procurement-related activities from mid-2004 to the early part of 2005 insisting, out of lack of
knowledge and/or pressure from the office of the Governor, to use national procedures instead of
the ones consigned in the LA. This issue was finally addressed, and the few procurement
activities carried out under the loan, mostly selection of consulting firms and/or individuals, were
carried out using the procedures set forward in the LA (as confirmed by the 2004 Audit Report
and the supervision missions carried out during 2005).

Even though the AA/AM were not part of the Project, the Borrower's failed intention to have
them be part of an amended design, merits comments derived from a visit to one AM in the




8 The AA pedagogical strategy included the establishment of a multidisciplinary classroom known in
Spanish as "Aula Mixta (AM)" comprising 14 computers and peripheral equipment, school library and
other multimedia equipment. The estimated unit cost of an AM was set at US$40,000.

9The fact that each AM unit cost about US$40,000 and the desire of the Secretary of Education to expand
the Project to the totality of 116 municipalities, leads the ICR team to assume that the Secretary did not
grasp the cost-benefit notion of her recommendations. Thanks to the pressure put in by the Bank team,
whatever little activity carried out under the Project was constrained to the 50 targeted municipalities,
notwithstanding that the 254 AMs (acquired under the Borrower's own budgetary funds) were spread out
along Project and non-Project municipalities.




                                                   22

Project municipality of Tocancipa10. The main differences observed by the Bank between the
AA/AM model and the original Project design were: (i) from a demand-driven approach to a
supply-driven one; (ii) from a highly participative process to a passive receptive one; (iii) from a
solution paradigm where information technology was not at the top of the priorities to one where
the driver of change was supposed to be an information technology platform; (iv) from a context
where SEC was supposed to provide technical assistance and funding for the implementation of
the PEIs and the MIPs to one where SEC prescribed and micromanaged what it thought to be the
appropriate interventions for change; and (v) from a situation where interventions were to be
carried out by the mainstream institutions to one where parallel structures, mostly conformed by
short-term consultants, were preferred. Finally, the Bank was informed by SEC that no additional
investments to acquire more AMs are being contemplated11.

Rating: Given the erratic performance of the Government of Cundinamarca especially from mid-
2004 onwards contrary to the principles of the original Project design, the ICR team ranks the
Borrower implementation performance as highly unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: unsatisfactory
Secretaría de Educacion del Departmento de Cundinamarca

The average tenure of the 4 official and acting PCU coordinators since loan effectiveness to loan
cancellation was about 7.5 months. The high rotation and short tenure of the PCU coordinators
along with the continuous turnover of key technical staff in a context of orders and counter-
orders from SEC, not only created confusion and ambiguity as to how to proceed best with the
implementation process, but in fact stalled the physical and financial implementation progress.
The PCU financed by the Project was kept small at all times (as intended in the original design),
with about a dozen professional staff.



10 The visit to one AM in the municipality of Tocancipá by the ICR team confirmed the reservations
expressed by the Bank team during 2004 and 2005. Two AMs, with 15 computers, one server, peripheral
equipment and some pedagogical learning multimedia at US$40,000 each were installed in May 2005 in
the municipal school that was visited. One AM was to be used by the preschool level, while the other by
fourth graders in primary school. At the time of the visit, about sixteen months after having acquired and
installed these computers, they were still not functional to support the pedagogical approach sought by the
AA/AM scheme. About 22 school teachers received a one-month theoretical in-service training about the
AA/AM scheme in October 2005 and some teacher guides were produced as a result of the training.
However, no follow up was carried out by the trainers during the entire 2006 school year to monitor and
assess if there were some pedagogical changes in the classroom as a result of the training provided. Due to
the high teacher rotation, out of the 22 teachers that received the training last year, only 5 continued
teaching at the visited school. Finally, despite the SEC having an Action Plan for the consolidation of the
254 AMs that were acquired in 2005-2006, the Secretaría de Hacienda of Cundinamarca confirmed that no
budgetary resources were available in the remaining of 2006 for consolidation purposes. The ICR team
was also informed that the CY07 proposed budget to be sent to the Cundinamarca Assembly in October
2006 factors in the fact that after May 2007 no additional hiring of personnel will take place given that
2007 is an electoral year to select a new Governor for the Department that will take office on January 1st,
2008. This information leads the ICR team to believe that there is a small probability for the Action Plan to
consolidate the 254 AMs to be fully implemented.

11The Borrower's intention was to utilize a significant portion of the loan proceeds (about US$10 million)
to acquire a second batch of AMs, contingent on the approval of the loan amendment.




                                                   23

In addition to the drastic change of course at the onset of Project implementation the group that
prepared the Project was not the one in charge of implementation thus creating an additional
disconnect resulting in a serious operational discontinuity causing significant delays with the
compliance of agreed implementation schedules.

The negative impact of the above-mentioned changes in the PCU is reflected in the history of the
Project's financial and physical implementation progress as shown in the datasheet of the ICR.
The first loan disbursement of US$750,000, including the front-end-fee of US$150,000 and the
first deposit to the Special Account of US$600,000, was made in January 2004, immediately after
declaring the LA effective. By mid-2004, total loan disbursement (not necessarily reflecting
documented expenditures) including retroactive financing on eligible expenditures amounting to
about US$267,658 stood at US$1.24 million. These expenditures correspond mainly to the hiring
of technical assistance for the PEIs and the MIPs and for the preparation of the baseline
information. By the end of 2004, when signs of project implementation deceleration became
apparent, total loan accumulated disbursements had slightly increased to US$1.78 million. At the
end of 2005, total loan accumulated disbursements increased by a meager US$537.815 for a total
of US$2.71 million. These last expenditures correspond to the study of the AMs' pilot, the hiring
of consultants to prepare the curricular content of the AA/AM scheme and the acquisition of
some learning goods (as further described under Component A in Annex 2 of the ICR).

Discounting the undocumented balance in the Special Account amounting to US$450,898,
already returned to the Bank, the total documented loan proceeds disbursed by the Project came
to about US$1.79million plus the 0.15 of Front ­end Fee for a Total amount of US$1.94 (12.93
percent of the total original amount contracted).

Rating:    Based on all the above-mentioned information, and considering the dysfunctional
environment generated by the pressure exercised on the PCU by the second Secretary of
Education to support the AA/AM scheme while at the same time trying to comply with the LA,
the ICR mission rates the performance of the implementation agency as unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Weighting the satisfactory rating of the Borrower at the lending phase, the satisfactory rating of
the Guarantor during the lending phase with the highly unsatisfactory rating of the Borrower at
the implementation cycle and the unsatisfactory of the implementing agency, the ICR rates the
overall Borrower performance as unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned (both       project-specific and of wide general application)
(a)     Ensuring implementation readiness conditions prior to negotiations leads to a more
effective and timely physical and financial execution cycle. As shown in the preparation and
early implementation phases of this Project, there was a very short time elapsing from Board
approval to loan effectiveness, and the first six months of Project implementation looked very
encouraging.      This compares very favorable with other investments where significant
implementation progress delays occur mainly due to the excessive list of effectiveness conditions.

(b)     Change of Governments increase the likelihood for modifications of policy and
execution strategy along with changes in key players resulting in slow physical and financial
implementation. Therefore, timing the preparation and implementation of a new investment with



                                                24

the political timetable of a country is of utmost importance to take advantage of a context of
maximum political capital.      This lesson was mentioned and recommended by many of the
stakeholders interviewed during the ICR field mission, including authorities from the Ministry of
Finance, the DNP and the previous and current Government of Cundinamarca.

(c)      Bottom-up and demand-driven initiatives as a way to improve quality and relevance
of education. It is a well-known fact in the organizational development literature that those
stakeholders closer to the source of information are better positioned to identify and rank issues
and to propose pertinent and feasible solutions to address them. Ownership of the improvement
process by stakeholders involved in deciding and implementing their own interventions is greatly
ensured. Under this context, the role of a central or departmental authority, like the SEC in this
case, is to facilitate the implementation process of the bottom-up interventions under a result-
based agreement framework (contracts) entered with the beneficiary stakeholders, making them
accountable for achieving or moving in the direction of the envisaged results.

(d)      Those that prepare ought to be the ones to implement to avoid an early functional
disconnect likely to obstruct project implementation.

(e)      Political support and ownership as good predictor of success. One clear message
coming out of this Project is that when there was political support and ownership of the
Cundinamarca Government in the period 2002 ­ 2003, a solid and innovative Project design was
produced and even successfully implemented in the early stages of the next Government (first
semester of 2004). On the contrary, when the new 2004-2007 Government came into office with
a total different technical agenda than the one included in the PAD and the LA: (i) the original
Project design lost political support and ownership; (ii) the Project's financial and physical
implementation significantly slowed down; and (iii) the energy of the Borrower and the Bank
were redirected for almost two years (mid 2004 to mid 2006) to address erratic decisions by SEC
and try to work out, quite unsuccessfully, a possible amendment to the LA.

(f)      Impact evaluation and monitoring are needed as a means to correct course if it
becomes necessary. They also provide appropriate information to avoid pursuing blind alleys or
to foster encouraging paths, especially during a scaling up process.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


During its preparation stage and first year of implementation, the Project achieved the goal of
institutional strengthening of the education system at the department, municipality and school
levels; the entities had an active participation in developing the 10-Year Plan, the characterization
of schools and the formulation of both Improvement Plans and Investment Plans.

The 10-Year Action Plan design was made simultaneously with the Project design and financed
with Japanese grant funds. In this regard, the Secretariat team led the discussion on finding what
would be the best way of accompanying the educational communities in their search for
efficiency and effectiveness in providing a better service and improving the quality of education
in the Department. In the process, the Secretariat engaged its officials -who by using the
participation-action research method- collaboratively developed the 10-Year Action Plan, a
concept of education quality and an administration model based on the framework of efficient
schools, which later became the guidelines for both the characterization and the management
study at the municipality level.



                                                25

The Project was designed as a strategy for change, including training of actors and research on
the factors that account for the results of cognitive achievements and coexistence among schools,
having children learn what they should learn, at the right time and without encountering major
problems. Also, the demands from the Bank regarding the design of procedure manuals allowed
not only to establish clear rules of the game for the negotiation, agreement and consensus on the
Project execution, but also to characterize the schools and strengthen the participation processes
such as school government and institutional autonomy, mechanisms that exist since the passing of
Law 115 of 1994.

Achievements in terms of quality, efficiency and institutional strengthening are mentioned in
more detail in the Annex 4. Although the Project could not show any objective results given that
the majority of the interventions did not take place, some changes that were observed in the
quality and efficiency indicators could be understood as indications of the sensibility and
elasticity of school administration. Certainly, during the design of the Project some structures
were removed and some approaches reconsidered at the institution level with the participation of
an outside entity and the education community.

Concerning the 2.56 million dollar Investment that was executed, 80 percent was allocated to
improving the administration in terms of quality and relevance (Component 1). In addition, a 0.57
percent was allocated to institutional strengthening (internal and external efficiency),
administration and monitoring.

Factors that affected the sustainability of the Project. Undoubtedly, the change in
administration, together with a different current of thought, generated expectations regarding
amendments in the Project, which led to reformulating the strategy, seeking to assign more
weight to the Open School model under the learning environment approach, without modifying
the general objective or scope of the Project.


Standpoint of the new administration. The new administration questioned the Project's
strategy, and sought to re-evaluate the diagnosis and propose a new strategy .The new Secretariat
focused on three aspects and proposed the following: (i) Focus: For the new administration the
education issues in the Department do not differ among the schools, therefore, the solutions to be
sought should be macro type solutions through cutting-edge technologies, with the different
education stakeholders acting with a futurist vision in mind. (ii) Coverage: The Administration
considered that the strategies to be adopted should benefit all non-certified municipalities, in the
light of equity, and the impact of investment should be equal for all, whether using the loan funds
or the Department's own funds, or both. (iii) Purchasing cutting-edge technology: In this case,
the acquisition of computers would generate changes in quality and economies of scale by using
bulk purchases.


The Bank's reply to that proposal consisted in pointing out the potential risks in terms of: (i) the
use of mixed classrooms not based on pedagogic software and the teacher training would lack the
development of a new pedagogic focus, therefore the investment, the amount of which was
indeed large, could get lost; and (ii) the inequity generated when only one school by municipality
was provided with mixed classrooms, therefore favoring two school grades only. The Bank,
therefore, requested a rigorous evaluation of the mixed classrooms model at the municipalities
and schools where these types of classrooms were being implemented by the Department using
the Department's own funds. Likewise, the Bank suggested that given the major strategic changes
required by the Secretariat an amendment to the loan agreement became necessary, where the
participating national institutions, such as the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning


                                               26

Department, the Department of Cundinamarca, as well as the World Bank, had to be involved.
The process was time-consuming and it was actually never concluded.


Bank Performance: the action taken by the Department, both in the formulation stage and during
the first year of implementation of the Project was strengthened by the support provided by the
World Bank, following these two general guidelines: (i) technical support for the design,
formulation and implementation of the Project, particularly through specialized consultancy, for
the identification of participative and decentralized administration models, with a permanent
support to develop capacities, abilities and skills for the initial development of the Project; (ii)
timely compliance with the processes established in the loan agreement: accompaniment in
payments, no-objections and overall recommendations and continued monitoring of the execution,
difficulties and achievements of the Project throughout its first year of implementation.

In regard to the draft ICR report the SEC Authorities made the following comments:

    1. In general terms, the current administration does not share the results of the evaluation
         carried out by the loan closing mission concerning the SEC's performance in the
         execution of loan 7192-CO. They consider that although it was prematurely cancelled,
         the educational communities showed a strong mobilization around the education theme
         and contributed in the development of strategies for the 10-year education plan, and in
         the municipal and institutional characterizations, among others.

    2. As for the implementation phase, it should be pointed out that the current administration
         welcomed the project and indeed ratified the general objective and the specific objectives
         as well as the overall intervention strategies, even considering the request made by SEC
         regarding the modifications to the implementation strategies, which were accepted by the
         World Bank in the follow-up missions, including the adjustments made by the SEC but
         ultimately not put in effect.

    3. As for the financial management rated as unsatisfactory, it was in compliance with the
         parameters and requirements established by the World Bank and each one of the
         expenditure items met the non-objection requirement by the World Bank and was
         endorsed by the auditing firms hired for that purpose, and in fact the SEC has agreed with
         the figures presented by the contracting party.


In regard to the Draft ICR report The National Planning Department (DNP) made the
following comments :

    4. In general, the document reflects the experience of the project's execution. Nonetheless,
         the DNP states that it was not aware of some of the activities carried out by the SEC,
         which are described earlier in this ICR, under "Governance Performance" and
         "Implementing Agency" among others.

    5. We do not share SEC's assertion that "factors under Government's control" were related
         to the delay in the DNP's approval of changes and/or amendments to the LA.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable



                                               27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

IMPROVING SCHOOL
MANAGEMENT TO ENHANCE                    16.50                1.99           12.06
QUALITY AND RELEVANCE
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING TO
IMPROVE INTERNAL AND                      3.69                0.53           14.36

EXTERNAL EFFICIENCY
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND EVALUATION                            1.061               0.04            3.77

Front end Fee                             0.15                0.15           100.00
            Total Baseline Cost          21.40                2.71           12.67

(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          6.40         0.77         12.03
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   15.00        1.94         12.93

TOTAL                                             21.40        2.71         12.67




                                          28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This Annex is described for two time frames: (i) the first one, running from Loan effectiveness
until mid- 2004, when the ethos of the original Project design prevailed during the
implementation process; and (ii) the second one comprising from mid 2004 until the Loan
cancellation in June 2006, when the Bank team tried unsuccessfully to accommodate through a
possible LA amendment the technical request of the new authorities while keeping unchanged the
original developmental objectives and the financial and procurement procedures set for in the LA.
At the end of this description, two cost tables are presented to further substantiate the story
provided: (a) the documented expenditure by component and by source of financing at appraisal
and at the time of Loan cancellation time; and (b) the documented expenditure by category and by
source of financing at appraisal and at the time of Loan cancellation time.

Component A ­ Improving School Management to Enhance Education Quality and
Relevance. This Component was expected to cost US$16.5 million equivalent at appraisal
(US$11.55 million equivalent from the Bank and US$4.95 million equivalent from the Borrower
counterpart funding) and ended up disbursing and documenting only US$1.99 million equivalent
at the time of Loan cancellation (US$1.39 million equivalent from the Bank and US$0.60 million
equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding), about 12 percent of the expected total cost.

The bulk of this documented expenditure (about 74 percent) was allocated in the selection and
hiring of about nine qualified firms at the beginning of 2004 to facilitate the undertaking of the
educational and managerial diagnosis of all the Project schools, clustered in 117 institutions
included in the universe of targeted municipalities, by the same school stakeholders. This
component completed the diagnosis in 44 of the 50 Project targeted municipalities (88 percent of
the total universe) comprising about 890 Project municipal schools clustered in 106 institutions12.
At the school level the diagnosis included an assessment of the: (i) school administrative and
financial management and leadership by the school principal; (b) pedagogical aspects in the
classroom; (c) utilization of learning resources; (d) school behavioral climate; and (e) degree of
interaction of the school with the productive sector and civil society. At the municipal level the
diagnosis included an assessment of: (f) management, planning and use of information for
decision-making processes; (g) communication with municipal stakeholders; (h) the degree of
civil society participation in municipal-related affairs; and (i) the degree of coordination of the
municipality with the SEC authorities. The findings of these diagnoses were validated with the
same school and municipal stakeholders following the participative underpinning in the entire
process.

These diagnoses, completed by August 2004, allowed the participating cluster of schools in the
44 municipalities to elaborate their PEIs, which in turn were the basis for the preparation of the
school's Improvement and Investment Plans (Plan de Mejoramiento Escolar y Plan de Inversión).
Because of the project implementation stalling issues described in the main text of the ICR and
the early Loan cancellation, there was no time to start using the US$7.14 million equivalent
allocated in the Category of Expenditure "School Sub-projects" aimed at financing the
implementation of these school investment plans.




12 The six targeted municipalities for which no diagnosis was undertaken is due to the failure of the
corresponding consulting firms contracted to carry out the task.




                                                 29

Because no PEI in Project schools had been implemented at the time of the writing of the ICR,
there is no information concerning their impact in improving the quality and relevance of
education as well as the internal and external efficiency at the school level.

Still under the first time period, about US$60,000 equivalent of Project funds were allocated for
the purchase of 190 robotic laboratories installed in an equal number of Project schools benefiting
about 570 teachers (about 12 percent of the target set at appraisal of 4,900 teachers). These
learning goods aimed at enhancing creative skills among the beneficiary students. In addition,
another US$78,000 equivalent were destined for the acquisition of learning materials aimed at
preparing grade 11 students in Project schools for the ICFES test to enter tertiary (university)
education.

Finally, under the first time-period, about US$108,000 equivalent of Project funds were allocated
for teachers training in 48 Project schools in targeted municipalities, focusing on using the
internet as a means to improve their pedagogical practices in the classroom.

It is the ICR team's impression that all of these set of learning goods were acquired in a
piecemeal fashion and no effective holistic articulation was ever achieved to have these goods
contribute to the improvement of education quality and relevance.

Under the second time-frame period, and with the aim of preparing a loan amendment to
incorporate some of the Government's technical request, the Bank authorized the use of about
US$130,000 equivalent to monitor and study the pilot of 254 AMs in 26 Project and other non-
Project municipalities. The findings of this pilot were completed by May 2006 and discussed with
the ICR team. In essence, the findings conclude that there is a: (i) lack of ownership and
appropriation of this model by many school stakeholders given its supply-driven provision; (ii)
high cost of each AM; (iii) lack of appropriate articulation of the pedagogical and technological
dimensions associated with this approach; (iv) lack of appropriate technical sustainability due to
the high rotation of school trained staff; and (iv) significant inequity generated by the
implementation of this pedagogical design favoring, as mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, one
school in the municipality and one grade within the participating school.

Also under the second time-frame, the Bank authorized the use of about US$261,000 equivalent
for the hiring of experts to design the pedagogical and technical contents comprised in the AA/AM
models in all the curricular areas. The first batch of programs were completed by December 2005
while the remaining ones were completed by May 2006, again too late to prepare an Operational
Plan for the scaling up of AA/AMs. One of the experts hired under this Component was for the
design of the Project's impact evaluation scheme (which should have been charged under
Component C).

Rating: Weighting the strengths of the implementation of this Component (the elaboration of the
PEIs and MIPs and setting some conducive environment to accommodate the new technical
request of the Borrower) and its many weaknesses (not being able to continue its implementation
to assess its impact on improving quality and relevance of education at the school level and not
implementing the expected partnerships with the productive sector and civil society nor fostering
the desired education for a better and peaceful coexistence), the ICR team grants a moderately
unsatisfactory rating to the implementation of this component.

Component B - Institutional Strengthening to Improve Internal and External Efficiency.
This Component was expected to cost US$3.69 million equivalent at appraisal (US$2.56 million
equivalent from the Bank and US$1.13 million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart


                                               30

funding) and ended up disbursing and documenting only US$0.53 million equivalent at the time
of Loan cancellation (US$0.37 million equivalent from the Bank and US$0.16 million equivalent
from the Borrower counterpart funding), 14.1 percent of the expected total cost.

The bulk of this documented expenditure (about 89.3 percent) was allocated in the selection and
hiring in January 2004 of the consulting firm that prepared the baseline information of the
outcome and output agreed indicators appearing in Annex 1 of the ICR. Another small portion of
the Project's proceeds were allocated in analyzing the findings of the SABER (Learning
achievement test) for 5th and 9th grades including associated factors, administered to 8,639
students (61 percent of 5th grade and 39 percent of 9th) in 264 public schools. Nothing else
included in the original design of this Component was ever implemented.

Rating: Weighting the strengths of the implementation of this Component (the elaboration of the
baseline information) and its weaknesses (not being able to implement the management
improvement plans at the municipalities, nor the strengthening of SEC), the ICR team allocates a
moderately unsatisfactory rating to the implementation of this component.

Component C ­ Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.                This Component was
expected to cost US$1.06 million equivalent at appraisal (US$0.74 million equivalent from the
Bank and US$0.32 million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding) and ended up
disbursing and documenting only US$0.04 million equivalent at the time of Loan cancellation
(US$0.035 million equivalent from the Bank and US$0.015 million equivalent from the Borrower
counterpart funding), about 4.72 percent of the expected total cost.

Almost the totality of this documented expenditure was allocated for the PCU and a smaller
amount for the contracting of the 2004 and 2005 Audit reports. The expenditure to design the
Project's impact evaluation scheme (designed but never implemented), another key feature of this
Component, was charged under Component A. Even though the Project's evaluation design is
ready, it was never validated nor implemented.

Rating: For the above-reasons, the ICR team rates the implementation of this Component as
moderately satisfactory.

Costs

According to table 2 below, the total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$21.4 million
equivalent, corresponding US$15.0 million equivalent to the Bank (70 percent of the total) and
US$6.4 million equivalent to the Government of Cundinamarca (30 percent of the total). At the
time of Loan cancellation, the total documented expenditure amounted to US$2.712 million
equivalent (12.67 percent of the appraised total), corresponding US$1.94 million equivalent to the
Bank (12.93 percent of the appraised total for the Bank) and US$0.77 million equivalent to the
Government of Cundinamarca (12.03 percent of the appraised total for the Borrower). The
undisbursed Loan proceeds of US$13.055 million, includes a reimbursement to the Bank of
US$450,899 corresponding to undocumented balance in the Special Account at the time of the
Loan cancellation. Finally, the real documented expenditure against the Loan represented about
18 percent of the expected accumulated disbursement of US$10.8 million indicated by the PAD
for mid-2006.




                                              31

  Table 2. Documented expenditures by component and by source at the time of appraisal
                            and at the Loan cancellation - (in US$ millions)
Component         At the time of appraisal    At the time of Loan cancellation          Percentages


              Bank         Gov.        Total   Bank        Gov.         Total
               (1)         (2)          (3)    (4)           (5)         (6)    (4)/(1)   (5)/(2)   (6)/(3)
Component     11.55        4.95        16.50   1.39         0.60         1.99    12.03    11.92     12.00
A.
Component      2.56        1.13        3.69    0.37         0.16         0.53    14.06    13.27     14.09
B.
Component      0.74        0.32        1.06    0.03         0.01         0.04    4.05      3.13      4.72
C.
Front end-fee  0.15        0.00        0.15    0.15         0.00         0.15   100.00     0.00     100.00
Total         15.00        6.40        21.4    1.94         0.77         2.71    12.93    12.03     12.66



    Table 3. Documented expenditures by category and by source at the time of appraisal
                            and at the Loan cancellation - (in US$ millions)
Category of       At the time of appraisal    At the time of Loan cancellation          Percentages
Expenditure


              Bank         Gov.        Total   Bank        Gov.         Total
               (1)         (2)          (3)    (4)           (5)         (6)    (4)/(1)   (5)/(2)   (6)/(3)
Goods          1.20        0.52        1.72    0.26         0.11        0..37    21.67    21.15     21.64
Consultants    4.90        2.10        7.00    1.37         0.59         1.96    27.96    28.10     28.00
Training       1.40        0.60        2.00    0.01         0.00         0.01    0.71      0.00      0.50
Partnership    0.70        0.31        1.01    0.00         0.00         0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00
sub-projects
School sub-    5.00        2.15        7.15    0.00         0.00         0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00
projects
Operation      0.10        0.05        0.15    0.00         0.00         0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00
costs (PCU)
Front-end fee  0.15        0.00        0.15    0.15         0.00         0.15   100.00    100.00    100.00
Unallocated    1.55        0.67        2.22    0.15         0.07         0.22    9.68     10.45      9.50
Total         15.00        6.40        21.4    1.94         0.77         2.71    12.93    12.03     12.66




                                                  32

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

As part of the design and appraisal process, the government and the preparation team carried out
a detailed economic and financial analysis of the project. The economic analysis was based on the
assumption that the project would directly increase the years of schooling. The baseline
assumption, using a 12% discount rate, was that the project would have a 36 percent rate of
return. Following best practices, the economic analysis also included a sensitivity analysis. Even
in the best case, it seems unlikely that the project would have impacted all students in the
department.13
The sensitivity analysis does indirectly allow different assumptions about the impact of changing
the quality of schooling.

In practice, given the low amount of disbursement of the project, it is unlikely that the project had
a significant economic impact. Component A disbursed around 12 percent of its funds and while
this may have had a positive impact on learning in some schools, it was offset by the relatively
high administrative costs (components B and C). The project did support the development of PEI,
but it did not provide any resources to finance the implementation of these plans.

Due to the relatively short implementation period, there was no impact analysis or evaluation for
the project. Therefore it is not possible to attribute any of the gains in the education outcomes of
the department of Cundinamarca to the project interventions. This also makes it impossible to
estimate the return to the investment done by the project. However, under the assumption that the
small amount of resources spent under component A had some impact and assuming a relatively
high proportion of administrative costs to operational cost, the project may have had a rate of
return as high as 10 percent14. The actual rate of return was likely to decrease and may have been
negative if the project's resources were spent largely on administrative costs with little or no
impact on the education system.

The financial analysis showed that the department could afford to take on the debt generated by
the project. In practice, economic growth has been greater than was projected during project
design and while inflation is higher, the Colombian Peso is also stronger than expected. Given the
strong economic conditions and the low amount of debt actually contracted, the project is not
likely to have any measurable impact on the department's finances. However, this has to be
factored against the low impact and economic return of the project. Essentially the department
increased its debt for little in return.




13While the project did aim to decrease repetition and increase efficiency, it is unlikely that this would
have led to a one year average gain in schooling for all students in the department.

14 This assumes that project impacted at the most 20 percent of the beneficiaries and had a limited impact
on the long term earnings of students, equal to no more than 20 percent of the value of a full increase in one
year of schooling.




                                                   33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
        Names                                  Title                          Unit
Lending
Martha Laverde        Task Team Leader, Senior Education Specialist       LCSHE
Cecilia Balchun       Disbursement Specialist                             LOAG1
Otto Bolaños          Financial Management Specialist                     LCOFM
Dan Boyce             Senior Financial Management Specialist              LOAG3
Eduardo Brito         Senior Legal Counselor                              LEGLA
Maria Elisa Caro      Administrative and Logistical Support               LCC1C
Alberto Chueca        Colombia Resident Representative                    LCC1C
Ernesto Cuadra        Peer Reviewer                                       HDNED
Jeannette Estupiñán   Financial Management Specialist                     LCOAA
Marito Garcia         Education Sector Manager                            LCSHEs
Mark V. Hagerstrom    Social Sector Leader                                LCC1C
Sonia Levere          Language Program Assistant                          LCSHE
José Martinez         Procurement Specialist                              LCOPR
Marcelo Osorio        Procurement Consultant                              LCSFU
Harry Patrinos        Senior Education Economist                          LCSHE
Robert Prouty         Peer Reviewer                                       HDNED
Luis Schwartz         Financial Management Specialist                     LCOFM
Javier Aguilar        Consultant, Institutional Development Specialist    LCSHD
Robin De Pietro       Consultant, Education Specialist                    LCSHD
Gustavo De Roux       Consultant, Social Cohesion Specialist              LCSHD
Henry Forero          Consultant, Management Information Systems and
                      Costs Specialist                                    LCSHD

Catherine Gibbons,    Consultant, Social Funds Specialist                 LCSHE
Catalina Laserna      Consultant, Education Technology Specialist         LCSHE
Isabel Londoño        Consultant, Education Policy Specialist             LCSHE
Alejandro Lucangioli  Consultant, Instructional Resources Specialist      LCSHE
Carolina Nieto        Consultant Education Specialist                     LCSHE
Juan Carlos Olarte    Consultant, Education Statistics Specialist         LCSHE
Luis Pisani           Consultant, Implementation Specialist               LCSHE
Rosa Cristina Siabato Consultant, Evaluation Specialist                   LCSHE
María Angélica Tellez Consultant, Teacher Training Specialist             LCSHE
Maria Teresa Tatto    Consultant, Teachers and School Principals Training
                      Specialist                                          LCSHE

Supervision/ICR
Martha Laverde        Task Team Leader, Senior Education Specialist      LCSHE
Elsa Coy              Team Assistant                                     LCSHD
Alberto Chueca        Colombia Resident Representative                   LCC1C
Mark V. Hagerstrom    Social Sector Leader                               LCC1C
Teresa Genta-Fontes   Senior Counselor                                   LEGLA



                                           34

        Names                                 Title                             Unit
José M. Martinez      Procurement Specialist                              LCOPR
Gustavo De Roux       Consultant, Social Particioation Specialist         lcshd
Jeannette Estupinán   Financial Management Specialist                     LCOAA
Luis Fernando Rios    Junior Professional asóciate                        LCC1C
Henry Forero          Consultant, Management Information Systems and
                      Costs Specialist                                    LCSHE

Carolina Nieto        Consultant Education Relevance and
                      Competitiveness Specialist                          LCSHE

Luis Pisani           Consultant, Education Quality Specialist            LCSHD
Rosa Cristina Siabato Consultant, Evaluation Specialist                   LCSHE
Denisse Vaillant      Consultant, Teacher Training Specialist             LCSHE
Sonia Levere          Language Program Assistant                          LCSHD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                           1                           44.49
  FY03                                          18                          207.31


                           Total:               19                          251.80
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                          21                           63.95
  FY05                                          23                           33.62
  FY06                                          14                           27.97
  FY07                                           4                           60.72
                           Total:               81                          438.06




                                           35

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   36

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                                                Bogotá, 22 de noviembre de 2006


Doctora
MARTHA LAVERDE TOSCANO
Banco Mundial

Cordial saludo

Remito a Usted el informe correspondiente a la ejecución del PMCE

                                           INFORME
       PROYECTO MEJORAMIENTO DE LA CALIDAD DE LA EDUCACION EN
                       CUNDINAMARCA. PMCEC CREDITO 7192 CO

1. Objetivos de desarrollo
El Proyecto, Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación en Cundinamarca aprobado el
08/19/2003 y cancelado 06/08/2006, logró durante la etapa de preparación, y su primer año de
desarrollo, fortalecer los procesos de gestión de la educación, en el Departamento - Secretaría de
Educación; en los Municipios y las instituciones educativas; entidades que participaron
activamente en la construcción del Plan Decenal, la caracterización de las instituciones, la
formulación de Planes de Mejoramiento y Planes de Inversión.

En opinión de los diferentes actores del sector educativo en el departamento, el mayor logro
consistió en la construcción participativa del Plan Decenal de Educación 2003 ­ 2012 y en la
incorporación de sus propósitos en el      Plan de Desarrollo Departamental Cundinamarca es
Tiempo de Crecer con una mirada al futuro, y el firme propósito de hacer de la educación en el
departamento un asunto de todos, especialmente de las administraciones locales, la sociedad civil,
el sector productivo y la comunidad educativa.

La construcción del Plan de Desarrollo Departamental, se rige por los principios de participación,
descentralización, equidad, flexibilidad y transparencia; conceptos que se esperaba fueran los
paradigmas del proyecto, o valores que permitieran generar una nueva cultura de compromiso
en la sociedad civil y el sector económico frente a la educación.

Durante la formulación del Proyecto, en actividad paralela, se construyó de manera participativa
con la comunidad el Plan Decenal de Educación en el departamento; el equipo de la Secretaría
lideró la reflexión sobre la      "mejor manera" de acompañar a las comunidades educativas
departamental, municipal e instituciones educativas, en la búsqueda de la eficiencia y eficacia
que se requiere para lograr la prestación de un mejor servicio educativo y el mejoramiento de la
calidad de la educación en el Departamento. En este proceso la Secretaría de Educación,
involucró un número significativo de sus funcionarios, quienes con un enfoque de investigación ­
acción ­ participación, consiguieron hacer una construcción colectiva del Plan Decenal; de un
concepto de calidad de la educación; y de un modelo de gestión que sigue las directrices del
modelo de "escuelas eficientes", el cual fue aterrizado posteriormente en las caracterizaciones y
el estudio de gestión en los municipios.


                                              37

Es relevante mencionar, además, lo importante que fue la construcción y diseño de los manuales
de procedimiento. La discusión y reflexión alrededor de las exigencias del Banco, impulso la
construcción de reglas de juego claras en la negociación, la concertación y la generación de
consenso para la acción y la ejecución del proyecto.

El trabajo de caracterización en las instituciones educativas, permitió potenciar la participación
de la comunidad educativa, utilizando e impulsando instancias ya constituidas y normatizadas,
pero poco usadas, como el gobierno escolar, mecanismos existen desde la promulgación de la
Ley 115 (Ley General de Educación), pero que la comunidad educativa o no los conoce o no
sabe como desarrollarlos para empoderar a los miembros de la institución y ejercer sus derechos
en bien de la educación. En esta vía, la caracterización logró en su trabajo con         rectores,
directivos docentes, docentes, estudiantes y en general comunidad educativa repensar la escuela,
reflexionar sobre el sentido de autonomía institucional, entendida como uno de los bastiones de
la descentralización, contemplados en la Ley general de Educación (1994).

La exclusión y la inequidad son manifestaciones de los problemas más complejos de desarrollo
humano que presenta el Departamento de Cundinamarca. Por tanto, la focalización del Proyecto
en los cincuenta municipios más pobres, con una mayor asignación de recursos orientados a
mejorar el acceso, la retención y la calidad de la educación, permiten ver como en el diseño del
Proyecto, siempre estuvo presente el principio de equidad y los esfuerzos por buscar igualdad de
oportunidades para los niños jóvenes del Departamento.


2. El Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación, fue concebido desde su diseño
como una "estrategia de cambio" que proponía intervenciones en formación de los actores
educativos; con énfasis, en algunos factores que explican los resultados de logros cognitivos y
de convivencia, aferrados a la búsqueda del mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación de niños,
niñas y jóvenes del departamento. Es claro que el Proyecto estaba enfocado a fortalecer la gestión
de las Instituciones Educativas, mejorar el sistema educativo desde lo local, pero sobretodo, a
hacer que los niños aprendieran lo que tienen que aprender con una educación basada en la
pertinencia, en el justo momento y sin mayores traumatismos ni privaciones propias de las
comunidades pobres en los municipios alejados y afectados por la violencia del país.




2.1. Calidad de la educación
La   primera fase del proyecto (2002 ­ 2004), consistente en su formulación, negociación,
aprobación y un año de ejecución; en la cual estuvieron presentes: Secretaría de Educación
Departamental,, Administraciones , Municipales, instituciones y comunidad educativa; tuvo
lugar durante el periodo que coincide con el intervalo de la aplicación de las pruebas SABER
(2002 ­ 2005).     El resultado en el sector oficial de estas dos aplicaciones, en el grado 9 en
matemáticas, registra un aumento de 2.58 puntos, pasando de 58.01 en el 2002 a 60.68 en el
2005; en lenguaje la magnitud del mejoramiento fue aún mayor: 3.46 puntos, pasando de 61.87 a
65.33 en el mismo periodo. En el grado 5, el mejoramiento fue en matemáticas de 0.2 puntos,
partiendo de un puntaje promedio de 54.24 en el 2002; mientras que en lenguaje se tuvo un
puntaje de 1.48 puntos, partiendo de 57.60 en el 2002.

Las mejoras obtenidas en los resultados de las pruebas, no se pueden atribuir a intervenciones
del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación en Cundinamarca, ya que estas no se
dieron por el corto plazo de ejecución del proyecto. Sin embargo, son indicios que permiten



                                              38

valorar positivamente: la sensibilidad y elasticidad del tema de la gestión escolar al interior del
sistema educativo, en el departamento, municipios e instituciones educativas. Recordemos que
entre el 2002 - 2005 se diseño y formulo el Proyecto , el Plan Decenal de Educacióno y El Plan
de Desarrollo departamental; para lo cual se removieron las estructuras; y se oxigenaron criterios,
que en una u otra forma, fueron repensados en la institución educativa con la participación de la
comunidad, y que en el proceso fluyeron hasta la Secretaría de Educación del departamento,
concebidos en el marco del Plan estratégico del sector. Además, con las caracterizaciones y la
formulación de     Planes de Mejoramiento Institucional, se crearon espacios de reflexión y
discusión altamente positivas, a favor de la calidad de la educación en el departamento.

Es de esperar, que el valor agregado del logro en las pruebas sea sostenible y proyectado al
futuro; con esta información la Secretaría de Educación puede continuar impulsando los procesos
de formación de los docentes en las áreas básicas, de acuerdo con los lineamientos que se
trazaron en el Plan Decenal, Plan de Desarrollo Departamental y los Planes de Mejoramiento de
la institución educativa, y las mismas exigencias que de ello se genere.

2.2. Eficiencia interna del Sistema
Los indicadores de eficiencia interna del sistema educativo experimentaron una leve mejoría: la
tasa de repitencia mejoró en 0.62%, pasando 5.52% (2003) al 4.9% en el 2006; la deserción bajo
en 0.1%, en el mismo periodo; y el promedio de estudiantes por docente en el área rural se
mantuvo alrededor de 22, y en lo urbano paso de 25.4 a 27. Estos indicadores, no solamente
reflejan la eficiencia interna del sistema educativo, sino la capacidad de la institución para
compensar, de alguna manera, las difíciles condiciones socioeconómicas de los estudiantes. La
deserción, por ejemplo, es un indicador de factores múltiples, pero fuertemente asociado a las
condiciones de pobreza de los estudiantes, y a la incapacidad de la escuela para atenuar dichas
carencias.


2.3 El Fortalecimiento Institucional
A partir de 1.996, en Colombia, los 23 Departamentos se certificaron ante el Ministerio de
Educación Nacional, para orientar autónomamente su educación, es decir, no solo administrar el
servicio con sus recursos, sino orientar el proceso de descentralización, facilitando el proceso de
autonomía de los municipios y de sus instituciones educativas. El Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la
calidad de la Educación en el Departamento, en su etapa de formulación y su implementación
durante sus dos primeros años de vida, fortaleció tanto las instituciones educativas como la
misma Secretaría de Educación, lo cual permitido el acercamiento a la comunidad educativa, la
construcción colectiva de propuestas locales con la identificación de sus problemas y la
definición de planes de mejoramiento institucionales para su posible solución.

El objetivo de la descentralización, es hacer que las secretarías de educación en el departamento y
municipios, manejen con responsabilidad, apropiación y buen criterio su educación. El equipo de
la Secretaría con el Proyecto, fortaleció sus conocimientos          sobre la administración de la
educación y la prestación de un mejor servicio educativo y muy especialmente en el cómo
acercarse a las administraciones locales y sus instituciones en actitud de respeto, generando
confianza y credibilidad en las comunidades, lo que redundó en el crecimiento de la autonomía de
los municipios, instituciones y comunidades educativas.

En resumen, el desarrollo de las primeras etapas del Proyecto generó en la comunidad educativa
departamental, municipal e institucional procesos de participación, organización y formación,
conducentes al análisis de su realidad y a la formulación y gestión de planes de desarrollo educativo
más contextualizados.


                                                39

3. Inversión acumulada 2003-2.005

De los 2,56 millones de dólares que se ejecutaron, el 80% correspondió al primer componente:
Mejoramiento de la administración educativa para mejorar la calidad y la relevancia. El resto
0.57% se dedico al fortalecimiento institucional para mejorar la eficiencia interna y externa, la
administración y el monitoreo.

En el primer componente, el énfasis de esta inversión, estuvo en la preparación de los
funcionarios de la Secretaría, los rectores y los docentes; quienes trabajaron, con cierta
profundidad el tema de la autonomía institucional, la descentralización y las alianzas estratégicas
con el sector productivo y la sociedad civil organizada. Aceptando que el manejo de dichos temas
no era del dominio técnico de los funcionarios, la Secretaría consideró necesario contratar
expertos externos que jalonaran los procesos y capacitaran a los funcionarios de Planta. Este fue
un proceso exitoso y dentro de los productos visibles se tienen: el    Plan Decenal y el Plan de
Desarrollo Departamental, el modelo de eficiencia de las instituciones educativas, que luego
sirvió de marco para la construcción de los Términos de Referencia de las caracterizaciones, los
Planes de Mejoramiento y los Planes de Inversión de las instituciones educativas; también, el
estudio y construcción de la Línea de base y la aplicación de las pruebas SABER.




4. Factores que afectaron la sostenibilidad del Proyecto

Dentro de los factores que afectaron la continuidad del Proyecto, están sin lugar a dudas, el
cambio de administración, acompañado de una corriente de pensamiento diferente. La presencia
de diferentes corrientes de pensamiento que se manejan en el sector de la educación, reforzado
con las prácticas políticas usuales en los cambios de administración. Este proceso de cambio
generó una expectativa de enmienda del proyecto que condujo a una reorganización interna que
pretendía dar un mayor peso al modelo de Escuela Abierta dentro del enfoque de ambientes de
aprendizaje, sin que al interior de del proyecto se modificara ni su objetivo general ni sus
alcances.

El trabajo con los alcaldes, personas independientes de la Secretaria de Educación, en estos tres
años de vida del proyecto, no alcanzó a        madurar lo suficiente para haber exigido que se
cumplieran los convenios que ya estaban firmados o en proceso, y que en cierta forma les
obligaba a responsabilizarse de la educación en su municipio. Para ellos, una posición cómoda es
esperar que el departamento asuma toda la responsabilidad y no tengan que dedicar recursos a
programas, que ellos mismos no entienden muy bien, y que además no les da realce a su
administración, pues, como es de todos sabido, los resultados de la inversión en educación se ven
a mediano y largo plazo.

Otro factor que incidió en la baja ejecución y parálisis del proyecto es no haber contado con una
Unidad de Coordinación propia del proyecto, la cual tuviera capacidad técnica y dedicación
exclusiva al proyecto. Otra variable de alto impacto fue la rotación de los Coordinadores del
proyecto y no contar con recursos de la unidad para su funcionamiento.

4.1 Factores que estaban bajo el control del Gobierno
En       el proceso de modificación del proyecto ultima etapa ejecutada del Proyecto, la
administración departamental avanzó en la modernización de sus procesos y procedimientos,


                                              40

pero no con la profundidad que se requería. Lo anterior ocasiono retrasos en el diseño definición
de un marco conceptual del modelo de Escuela Abierta bajo el enfoque de ambientes de
aprendizaje y los términos para la contratación de la evaluación de las Aulas Mixtas, solicitada
por el Banco.

La normatividad vigente en materia de contratación          y la que el Proyecto convino en sus
manuales de operación, ocasionó algunas dificultades de asimilación por parte de funcionarios
que por su nivel fueron claves durante la ejecución del Proyecto, causando inquietudes y demoras
con algún grado de desgaste. Sin duda, una actitud diferente hubiese redundado en mayores
capacidades y rapidez en la negociación de la enmienda, además de ña demora en la definición y
respuesta de los entes Nacionales (DNP-Minhacienda) para la aprobación de los cambios y/o
enmienda y la del propio Banco.

5. Posición de la nueva administración

Con el cambio de administración en el Departamento, se presentaron cuestionamiento
relacionados fundamentalmente con la estrategia para lograr los objetivos del proyecto: el
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación y la relevancia del sistema educativo y el
Mejoramiento de la eficacia de la Educación a nivel Departamental, municipal e institucional,
controversia propia y valida en un cambio de administración, como es la reevaluación del
programa del gobernante anterior, frente a sus propias formas de enfocar los problemas y buscar
las soluciones. Dentro de esta dinámica, la Secretaría inicio su propio proceso de reconstrucción
de estrategias, que llevaran a aprovechar los recursos y solucionar los problemas de la educación
en el departamento.

Los cambios propuestos se pueden resumir en tres: (i) de enfoque: considerando que no es la
institución educativa, con la caracterización de sus debilidades y fortalezas la que decide ¿Cómo
y en que medida, con el acompañamiento de una entidad externa, busca la solución a sus
problemas? Para la nueva administración los problemas de la educación en el Departamento no
difieren entre instituciones educativas, por lo tanto, las soluciones que se busquen deber ser, de
tipo macro, con tecnologías vanguardistas que lleven a los diferentes actores de la educación a
actuar con visión de futuro. (ii) la Cobertura la administración considero que las estrategias que
se adoptaran deberían llegar a la totalidad de los municipios no certificados, en aras de la
equidad, el impacto de la inversión debe ser por igual para todos; ya sea con los recursos del
crédito o con los recursos propios del departamento o con ambos; y (iii) las adquisiciones de
tecnología vanguardista, en este caso los computadores, generan economías de escala al realizar
compras masivas

Una vez el Banco conoció la propuesta de la nueva administración, en las diferentes misiones y
escritos hechos por el Gobierno, hizo algunos cuestionamientos de tipo técnico y otros de carácter
más estructural. Entre los primeros estuvieron: (i) el riesgo en el uso de las aulas de informática,
planteaba: si la implementación de las aulas mixtas no se apoya en software pedagógico y en la
capacitación de los docente no se logra llevarlos a dominar los nuevos enfoques pedagógicos, la
inversión, de por si grande, podría perderse; y (ii) la inequidad que se generaba al dotar con aula
mixtas a una escuela por municipio y al interior de esta favorecer solamente a dos grados
escolares.

Lo anterior genero básicamente dos situaciones, en las que según el Banco, era necesario
trabajar: (i) se debería hacer una enmienda al contrato de préstamo, en la que tenían que
intervenir las entidades nacionales comprometidas como el Ministerio de Hacienda, el
Departamento Nacional de Planeación, el Departamento de Cundinamarca y el Banco Mundial;


                                              41

y (ii) para despejar dudas, relacionadas con la efectividad de las Aulas Mixtas, el Banco exigió
hacer una evaluación de rigor de los resultados de estas, en los municipios e instituciones
educativas, en donde ya el Departamento con recursos propios había implementado dichas aulas.

Dentro del proceso normal, se inició tanto la formulación y trámite de la enmienda como la
evaluación de las Aulas Mixtas, la cual se hizo con recursos del Proyecto. El resultado, después
de aproximadamente un año de trabajo en estos dos eventos, fue prácticamente la parálisis del
proyecto: con la enmienda la negociación fue muy lenta; y con la evaluación, pues esta exigía de
un marco conceptual de conceptualización y beneficio de las aulas mixtas en el cual la Secretaría
tuvo que comenzar por armar un marco teórico, lo cual entro en un proceso bastante lento y
dispendioso.

Atendiendo las sugerencias realizadas por el Banco Mundial con respecto al manejo del modelo
pedagógico que acompaña la dotación de aulas mixtas la Secretaría de Educación de
Cundinamarca realizó la contratación de expertos en las áreas para la definición del marco
conceptual del Modelo Escuela, Abierta bajo el enfoque de Ambientes de Aprendizaje.

Con el propósito de validar el modelo se realizó un pilotaje en 48 instituciones educativas
departamento durante un mes en cada institución educativa que arrojo conclusiones importantes
que permiten a la Secretaría trazar los lineamientos y realizar los ajustes para la implementación
del modelo en las instituciones educativas del departamento que cuentan con este ambiente de
aprendizaje instalado.

5.      Desempeño del BANCO

La actuación del Departamento, tanto en la formulación como en el primer año desarrollo del
proyecto se vio fortalecida con el acompañamiento brindado por el Banco Mundial, caracterizado
por las siguientes líneas generales:

a.Asistencia    técnica en el diseño y formulación del proyecto, especialmente en el
acompañamiento con consultorías especializadas en la identificación del modelo de gestión del
proyecto, la gestión de la educación en el departamento y el reconocimiento de las
potencialidades de un modelo participativo y descentralizado, con el apoyo permanente para
desarrollar capacidades, habilidades y destrezas en el desarrollo inicial del Proyecto.

b.Oportuno cumplimiento en los procesos establecidos con el convenio de crédito:
acompañamiento en desembolsos, No Objeciones y recomendaciones en general y seguimiento
continúo a la ejecución, dificultades y logros del Proyecto, en su primer año de desarrollo.

Agradezco sus comentarios al respecto.

Atentamente
(Original firmado por)

MARITZA AFANADOR GOMEZ
Secretaria de Educación




                                               42

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Colombia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board January 16, 2003 (Report
25129-CO)

Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
World Bank. April 29, 2002

Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. June 17, 2002.

Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. August 12, 2002.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
World Bank. February 24, 2003.

Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. June 9, 2003.

QER Report, The World Bank, February 2003

Project Concept Document (PCN), The World Bank, October 30, 2002.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No 25933-CO. The World Bank, July 10, 2003.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. July 10, 2003.


Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 7192-CO. The World Bank. Conformed copy September 30, 2003

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters,
Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) of all the
Supervision Missions recorded in Annex 6 of this ICR and in the Project's electronic files The
World Bank. From October 14, 2003 to April 11, 2005.

Bank and Borrower other project implementation-related documents

Análisis de la Capacidad Institucional del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad. Corporación
Calidad. Bogotá D.C. Marzo 2003.

Análisis Económico, Económica Consultores, Bogotá D.C. Marzo, 2003

Cundinamarca: Una Escuela Abierta. InformeFinal del Piloto.Secretaría de Educación. Bogotá
D.C. Octubre 2006.



                                             43

Informe de las Caracterizaciones realizadas en 2004 por cada una de las siguientes firmas de
consultoría: ASED, CAFAMI, Corpoeducación, Gualiva-Hemisferio, FES, Universidad Nacional,
Universidad Externado de Colombia y Un minuto. Electronic version. CD September 27, 2006.

Informe Final del Estudio de Focalización del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad. de
Mejoramiento de la Calidad.Educativa en el Departamento de Cundinamarca. Centro de
Investigación Sobre Dinámica Social. Universidad Externado de Colombia. Bogotá D.C. Mayo
14, 2003.

Plan de Desarrollo Departamental de Cundinamarca, Trabajemos juntos por Cundinamarca
2001-2004. Gobernación de Cundinamarca. Bogotá D.C. 2001.


Plan Decenal de Educación 2003-1012 Cundinamarca. Un propósito colectivo. Gobernación de
Cundinamarca. Secretaría de Educación, Bogotá D.C., Septiembre 2003.


Operational Manual, Cundinamarca Project Team, Enero 2004


Informe de Cierre, Cundinamarca Secretariat of Education, Junio 2006




                                           44

