Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                         C
Report No. P-3005-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 1, 1981
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfofmance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         -           Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$ 1.00              -           FBu 90
FBu 1                 -           US$0.011
ABBREVIATIONS
DGR      -    Direction Generale des Routes (Directorate General of Roads)
INTRACO  -    International Transport Company
MTP      -    Ministere des Travaux Publics, de 1'Equipement et du Logement
(Ministry of Public Works)
MTPT     -    Ministere des Transports, Postes et Telecommunications
(Ministry of Transport and Communications)
OTRABU   -    Office des Transports du Burundi (Transport Office of Burundi)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Burundi
Amount:               SDR 20.5 million
"-Q Y_5. million)
Terms:                Standard IDA Terms
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Public Works
Pro___t         (i)   Objectives: (a) to continue to assist the Government in
Description:         improving the road network;  (b) to improve an alternative
land connection to the port of Dar-es-Salaam; (c) to
strengthen the road improvement and maintenance capability
of the Ministry of Public Works (MTP); and (d) to strength-
en the planning capability of the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTPT), and of the MTP.
(ii)  Components:  (a) construction to paved standards of a
39.4 km section of the Ngozi-Kobero road; (b) improvement
to low gravel standards of 360 km of secondary and tertiary
roads; (c) procurement of equipment for two mechanized
maintenance brigades and acquisition of tools, vehicles
and camp equipment for the ongoing manual maintenance
program; (d) consultant services to supervise the road
construction program and technical assistance services
for the road improvement component, the manual and mechanized
maintenance programs, the training of staff, and to conduct
a study to define a five-year paved road rehabilitation
and maintenance program; and (e) technical assistance to
tlhe rnep Pl.anning TTnits of the MTP and MTPT.     N
Benefits: (a) improve communications between Bujumbura,
the provinces of Ngozi and Muyinga and the Indian Ocean,
and reduce vehicle operating costs; (b) help develop the
areas served by the improved roads; (c) strengthen the
road improvement capability of the MTP;  (d) help build
up a local civil works contracting industry; (e) keep
the road network passable all year round through better
maintenance; and (f) ensure a more efficient allocation
of scarce resources through better planning and programming.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
(iv)   Risks:  (a) shortages of materials resulting from
delays in transport through neighbouring countries.
To minimize these risks, tender documents would provide
for sufficient stocks of materials; (b) possibility
that some of the Burundian counterparts might resign
to join the private sector, which would delay the departure
and therefore increase the cost of technical assistance.
To minimize this risk, three Burundian counterparts
would be assigned to each technical assistance exDert
and each counterpart would be required to remain in
the service of MTP or MTPT for at least three years
from the date of his/her appointment as counterDart.
Estimated Costs
(US$ Million)
T,oral   -rp coron    To in. I
Road Construction                 3.6        8.4      12.0
Improvement of Road Network
-  Construction                1.6        1.9       3.5
-  Equipment                   0.3        2.7       3.0
Manual Maintenance Program        0.1        1.1       1.2
(handtools, vehicles and
camp equipment)
Consultant Services 1/            1.3       5.0        6.3
Total                          6.9      19.1       26.0
Contingencies
- Physical  (10%)           --3 7         1.9       2.6
- Price                        1.5        4.9        6.4
Total                           2.2       6.8        9.0
Total Project Cost                9.1       25.9      35.0
Total (excluding taxes and
import duties)             6.2      25.9       32.1
1/ Include US$1 million financed under the Project Preparation Facility.



Financing Plan:
(fTS$ Million)
Local      Foreign    Total
Government                         6.2          -          6.2
IDA                                2.9         22.1       25.0
Japan                                           2.0        2.0
France                                          0.3        0.3
Belgium                                         1.0        1.0
UINDP                                           0.5        0.5
9.1         25.9       35.0
Estimated Disbursement:                  (US$  Million)
IDA FY   1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                            3.0    16.0      5.0      1.0
Cumulative                        3.0    19.0    24.0    25.0
Economic 'ate of Return:
19 percent on 79  percent of Project costs for which benefits have
been quantified.
Appraisal Report: Report "To. 3228-BU, dated April 1, 1981.
.lap: IMID 15267
and   IBRD 15268






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR 20.5
million (US$25 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Highway
Project. The Project would be cofinanced, on a parallel basis, by a grant
of US$1.0 million from Belgium, a grant of US$2.0 million from Japan, a
grant of US$0.3 million from France and a UNDP grant of US$0.5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1981. Updated country data are provided below and
in Annex I.
3.        Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$180 in
1979, Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world and is designated
as "least developed" by the United Nations. Of a population of about four
million, only 90,000 are wage earners; the remainder depend mainly on subsis-
tence agriculture. The Government is facing several critical problems
in its efforts to develop the economy: the capability to prepare and manage
programs and projects is weak; the agricultural labor force is largely
untrained; and population growth keeps straining Burundi's productive resources,
particularly in agriculture. Despite a stated policy of "spaced births",
the problems of population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future.
A major effort must therefore be made to increase agricultural productivity.
During the past decade, agricultural production per capita declined steadily.
The search for more arable land has caused large-scale deforestation, resulting
in a severe lack of firewood in the rural areas and forcing the development
of alternative energy sources.
4.        Improvements to the internal transport system need to be complemented
by more reliable external links. Shipments of imports and exports through
the principal outlets via Tanzania have traditionally encountered frequent
delays due to bottlenecks in the port of Dar-es-Salaam, underinvestment
in the railway link between Tabora and Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika, and losses
because of theft. However, action is being taken to improve the situation
(see para. 28). The link via Rwanda and Uganda to the port of Mombasa
(Kenya) is becoming increasingly attractive with the continuing improvement
in national highways between Bujumbura and Mombasa.



5.        Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation
and improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which
was levied on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can
be withdrawn after three years. In addition, the traditional obligation
for small farmers to provide services to landowners in exchange for the
right to cultivate land was abolished. Likewise, land which was obtained
in an irregular manner for speculative purposes was returned to the State
or to the farmers who cultivated it. Other aspects of the new policies,
which are embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan (1978-82), are: (a) to
emphasize agricultural production to meet the increasing needs for food
supplies of the rapidly-growing population; (b) to increase the rate of
economic growth substantially in order to provide greater employment opportuni-
ties and more income to the poorest segments of the population; (c) to
raise the investment rate significantly; (d) to give the Government a more
active role in mobilizing financial and manpower resources and in participa-
ting in mixed enterprises in the commercial and productive sectors; and
(e) to foster decentralization of economic and social activity away from
the capital city through the creation of development poles, voluntary settle-
ment of the peasant population in villages, and migration from densely
populated areas.  To facilitate the implementation of its strategy, the
Government strengthened the role of planning by elevating the planning
organization to the rank of Ministry and by giving it a key role in the
allocation and monitoring of public investment.
6.        Recent Economic Developments.   The period 1977-79 constitutes
an important phase in Burundi's economic history, as it has witnessed an
acceleration of economic growth as well as a major effort by the Government
to raise the country's investment, traditionally among the lowest in the
developing world. During this relatively short period, the volume of invest-
ment grew by about 75 percent, and the investment rate rose to more than
12 percent of GDP. This effort was led and implemented by the public sector,
with important repercussions on the country's pattern of domestic demand,
on domestic inflation, and on the mobilization of domestic and external
financial resources.
7.        The growth of domestic demand in Burundi accelerated in the last
few years owing mainly to high producer prices for coffee during 1976 and
1977, and to the rapid growth of public sector expenditures during 1978
and 1979. Public consumption and investment expanded at a rate almost
triple that of the private sector during the period 1976-79. Government's
expenditures more than doubled in current terms and increased from about
16 percent of GDP in 1976 to 21 percent in 1979. Capital expenditures,
particularly for infrastructure and financing public enterprises, contributed
most to this growth.  The government overall deficit increased from about
3.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.3 percent in 1979. The expansion of domestic
demand led to a rapid increase in the volume of imports.
8.        Rising import prices and energy costs have contributed to raising
domestic inflation as well as the demand for domestic banking credit.
Owing mainly to external transportation costs, import prices increased
by 33 percent in 1979, more than twice the international inflation rate.
The recent surge in domestic prices was also related to the growth of the
government deficit resulting from the rapid increase of government expenditures



-3-
in real terms. In spite of continued high inflationary pressures from
abroad, preliminary estimates suggest that domestic inflation slowed down
significantly to between 15 and 20 percent in 1980.
9.         Burundi's external current account registered a surplus in 1976
and 1977 but showed a deficit in 1978. In 1979, the deficit was about
US$57 million, equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Underlying this shift was
an adverse movement in the country's terms of trade as well as an unpre-
cedented increase (55 percent) in the volume of imports. Owing mainly
to a 30 percent fall in the terms of trade, Burundi's current account deficit
widened to US$100 million in 1980, equivalent to 11 percent of GDP. By
December 31, 1980, however, Burundi's international reserves still stood
at the comfortable level of US$95 million, equivalent to five months of
imports, a legacy of the 1976-77 coffee-boom years. The country's growing
deficit has been financed mainly with project-related aid to the Government
and parastatals from multilateral and bilateral agencies. During 1979-
80, these flows averaged US$72 million per annum (or 36 percent of Burundi's
1979-80 imports), compared to US$18 million in 1976.
10.       External Assistance, Major Issues and Prospects.  Because of
the unfavourable outlook for world coffee prices, the medium-term prospects
of the economy are not good. According to current forecasts, the price
for coffee could fall by as much as one-third in real terms between 1979
and 1984. The impact of this decline in Burundi would have to be absorbed
by the small farmers (through lower producer prices in real terms) and
by the Government (through lower coffee taxes in real terms). Even with
a policy of demand restraint designed to cut by one half the rate of growth
of import volume, it will be difficult for Burundi to reduce its current
account deficit.
11.       Burundi's future external capital requirements are likely to
be much higher than in the recent past. Based on a macroeconomic scenario,
medium and long term external capital requirements are expected to double
to about US$155 milion p.a. during the period 1981-84. Although Burundi
has been remarkably successful in mobilizing external resources, recently
a few high priority agricultural projects have not obtained sufficient
financing. The composition of aid flows also would have to be changed
since external resources would have to finance a much greater share of
project costs, and since direct balance of payments support (and/or commodity
assistance for essential imports) would have to be provided to a greater
extent than in recent years.
12.       Restraining the growth of domestic demand would help Burundi
obtain needed external resources. This implies close coordination
of policies on several fronts, government expenditures, the taxation of
consumer goods and imports, as well as price policies. In particular,
the pricing strategy needs to be reviewed. Together with the government's
investment program, pricing strategy should constitute the cornerstone
of a policy to expand domestic production. In recent months, the Government
has taken important steps in this area by raising significantly electricity
and water tariffs, domestic transport fares, gasoline retail prices, and
lifting selectively rent controls.



-4  -
13.       If the growth of consumption were to slow down from an average
of over 5 percent p.a. in real terms during the period 1976-79 to about
3 percent p.a. during the period 1980-84, the expected decline in the terms
of trade would still lead to a significant fall in Burundi's domestic savings
rate. Public savings play a most important role with respect to the latter.
Reversing the erosion in the Government's financial situation, will require
restraint on current expenditure policy and a wide-ranging rationalization
of government's programs.
14.       The financial constraints discussed above will require reductions
in the Government's investment targets as defined in the Third Five-Year
Plan (1978-82). The Government has already taken preliminary steps in
this direction. The volume of investment during the period 1980-84 will
be limited by financial availabilities to a maximum of about one-half the
volume envisaged in the Plan, which would also be in line with the implementa-
tion capability during the period 1978-80. This implies halving the past
rate of growth of investment.  Despite this slowdown, the investment rate
would continue to rise.
15.       Another important issue is whether the Government will attain
its objective of increasing the allocation of investment to the directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture. Population pressure on available
land and its adverse effects on soil fertility, foodcrop production and
nutrition underlines the urgency of accelerating rural development. The
Government recently launched a number of integrated rural development projects,
which, over the next few years, are expected to benefit an increasing number
of small farmers. However, a number of integrated rural development projects
have been hindered by limited knowledge of intensified cultural practices,
and of the unwillingness of small farmers to adopt them. The first major
projects, scheduled to begin implementation in 1981, in many respects,
will remain experimental, and will have to be complemented with adaptive
research.
16.       Government policy is to establish public regional development
companies (SRDs) to promote integrated rural development, appropriate technology,
village-level organizations and decentralization of government services.
To this effect, they will manage all agricultural, forestry and veterinary
government staff working in the proposed project areas. These integrated
rural development schemes cut across the functions of various ministerial
departments. The Government expects SRDs to eventually cover with their
own earnings part, if not all, of their expenditures, although opportunities
to make commercial profits will develop only slowly. Therefore, for a
number of years, SRDs will probably depend on government budgetary allocations.
In spite of this financial dependence, and subject to government-approved
annual work programs, the Government intends to endow SRDs with full manage-
ment autonomy.
17.       Despite certain successes, however, some parastatals have been
affected by inadequate coordination with the Central Government, management
problems, financial weaknesses and, in the case of agricultural parastatals,
lack of small-farmer participation. With IDA assistance, the Government
is assessing the situation of the parastatal sector with the intention
of providing it with the resources, autonomy and flexibility it requires,
while retaining a monitoring function based on rewarding only satisfactory
economic and financial performance. Although increasing the efficiency
of the parastatal sector constitutes a top Government priority, this can



-  5  -
of the parastatal sector constitutes a top Government priority, this can
be achieved only gradually, and might take several years.
18.       To complement the efforts conducted by SRDs, it is also necessary
to promote rural development more actively through greater participation
of small and decentralized organizational set-ups such as government-sponsored
and private cooperatives, communal efforts under the UPRONA party, as well
as private secular and religious groups already operating in the rural
areas. The scope and efficiency of the activities of communes (the basic
administrative unit) could be greatly improved by providing more resources
to local authorities. The limited evidence available suggests that these
organizations can play a key role as "transmission belts" between the small
farmers and the rest of the economy. Rural development projects now face
the difficult challenge of combining the vertical integration needed for
increasing the production and quality of coffee with the more participatory
arrangements necessary for increasing foodcrop production and meeting other
basic needs. This conciliation is critical since the satlsfaction of basic
nutritional needs guides to a large extent the socioeconomic behaviour
of the farm family. The scarcity of land is already such that in a number
of regions farmers face a choice between continuing coffee cultivation
and gradually shifting to foodcrop production.
19.       If the Government continues to focus on development, pursue improve-
ments in policies, and strengthens its administration, it may achieve a
steady, albeit slow, improvement in per capita incomes. If mining of Burundi's
nickel resources proves feasible, the prospects over the next ten years
would be much better. However, the commercial viability of exploiting
these deposits has yet to be established. Regional development in Central
Africa will also be important to Burundi's economy. In September 1976,
Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a convention establishing the "Economic
Community of the Countries of the Great Lakes".  The Community, which has
its seat in Gisenyi, Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying
intra-regional trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A
major objective of the Community is the electrification of the Great Lakes
region. The three countries have also agreed to set up a joint development
bank, to exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu, and to develop a fishing
industry around Lake Tanganyika. They have also instructed the Secretariat
to investigate ways of improving the transport system around the lakes
in order to ease the transport bottlenecks in Burundi and Rwanda.
20.       In the 1977-80 period, total long-term capital inflows amounted
to about US$220 million, of which US$90 million (41 percent) was in the
form of grants. Most of the assistance comes from the UN agencies, Belgium,
the European Development Fund, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany, and
the People's Republic of China. On December 31, 1979, Burundi's external
medium-and long-term debt amounted to about US$103 million (excluding undisbursed
amounts), of which IDA held 25 percent. Debt service averaged 8.5 percent
of export earnings. Due to the important proportion of grants in external
assistance, IDA will probably continue to hold an important proportion
of Burundi's outstanding debt. Notwithstanding the relatively low debt
service ratio, Burundi is unable to absorb any borrowing on commercial
terms, because of its poverty and the instability of its export earnings.
External aid should therefore be on grant or very concessional terms and
continue to include a substantial share of local cost financing.



-  6  -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, fifteen credits
have been made totalling US$92.9 million; one credit (US$1.1 million) helped
improve water supply to Bujumbura; four credits (US$17.3 million) were
for agriculture (two for coffee production, one for fishing and one for
forestry); three credits (US$19.4 million, including an engineering credit
of US$400,000) helped start a highway maintenance and improvement program
(paras. 26-27); a US$10.0 million credit is supporting the improvement
of primary education and a second one of US$15.0 million finances vocational
and technical training; two credits (US$4.0 million) were made for technical
assistance and the National Economic Development Bank received a credit
of US$3.4 million. A US$15.0 million credit for an Urban Project aiming
at improving the conditions of the poor in the city of Bujumbura, and a
US$7.7 million credit for a Telecommunications Project became effective
in October 1980 and January 1981, respectively.  The Second Coffee Project
and the Fisheries Project are being cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (US$1.0 million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2 million),
respectively. The Second Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab Bank
for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0 million.
The Forestry Project is cofinanced with a credit of US$1.2 million equivalent
made from the EEC Special Action Account. In August 1980, IFC appraised
a glass container project. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and notes on the execution of projects and the status of disburse-
ments as of January 31, 1981.
22.       Project performance has been hampered by the shortage of local
management capacity and technical skills which is likely to remain a major
constraint to development for some time to come. This situation has particu-
larly delayed the execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee Projects,
although the implementation of the Second Coffee Project has recently improved.
Problems encountered in the execution of IDA-financed projects were discussed
with the Government during the Second Country Implementation Review held
in Bujumbura in June 1980. Recommendations were made in particular regarding
the training of local staff, accounting, audits and disbursement procedures.
Given existing constraints, however, project performance is, on the whole,
satisfactory.
23.       Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at reversing
the decline in agricultural productivity, improving the transport and communi-
cation network, developing energy resources and strengthening absorptive
capacity through training and technical assistance. Four projects have
recently been appraised: a pilot project to assist the local construction
industry, a nickel exploration project, a coffee improvement and rural
development project and a second rural development project.  The Second
Technical Assistance Project is assisting the Government efforts in improving
the planning process and the management of the public enterprise sector.
A third technical assistance credit aiming principally at continuing these
efforts and assisting in the restructuring of the public enterprise sector
is to be appraised shortly. An assessment mission will visit Burundi in
April 1981 to determine priority areas in the energy sector.



PART III.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
24.       Burundi is a small, rugged, landlocked country.  It is strrou'ude-
by Zaire to the west, Rwanda to the north and Tanzania to the east and
south. The country is densely, although unevenly, populated. Its transport
system has been molded by these topographical and demographic conditions.
The country relies essentially on roads for domestic communication and
transport. There are no railways or navigable rivers, and the country
is too small (27,820 km2) to support an internal air transport system.
The capital city has both an international airport and a port on Lake Tanganyika
linking Bujumbura to ports in Zaire, Tanzania and Zambia.
25.       Government Objectives.  The objectives of the Government for
the transport sector are to (a) improve the existing internal road network
to support decentralization and diversification of the economy; and (b)
improve alternative external connections to reduce the country's dependence
on the lake/rail connection to Dar-es-Salaam. Under the current Five-Year
Plan (1978-82), 25 percent of the public sector investment program was
allocated for the improvement of road infrastructure, in particular, road
paving, and an additional 8 percent was earmarked for road, lake and air
transport operations. While it is estimated that less than fifty percent
of the plan objectives have been met for the period 1978-80, investments
in infrastructure, which are largely financed by foreign aid, are progressing
faster than in other sectors.
26.       Transport Policy and Planning.  Three Ministries have responsibili-
ties in the transport sector: (a) the Ministry of Public Works (MTP) for
roads; the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTPT) for the other
modes and overall transport operations; and (b) the Ministry of Planning
for the coordination of investments. Although the Government's transport
coordination arrangements were largely adequate in the past, serious planning
questions and policy issues are now arising with regard to external transport
as well as the development of the domestic road network. In order to respond
to this need, the proposed Project would provide technical assistance to
help establish a planning capability with respect to external connections
and for the overall transport sector within the MTPT, and for the highway
subsector within the MTP. The Government has agreed that planning units
would be set up in both these ministries by March 31, 1982 (section 4.04
of the Development Credit Agreement); to assist the start up of the work
of these units, the Project would finance the services of two planning
experts for two years.
27.       External transport.  The country's most important trading partners
are the industrialized nations. For its vital imports and exports, Burundi
now uses two main transport corridors. The northern route by road through
Rwanda and Kampala (Uganda), and from there by road or rail to Mombasa
(Kenya), is 1,740 km by road and 1,925 km by road/rail. The shorter (1,428
km), more economical and traditionally used route is the southern, lake/rail
route via Tanzania: from Bujumbura by barge to the Tanzanian port of Kigoma
and thence by rail to the Indian Ocean port of Dar-es-Salaam. As an alternative
to the existing routes, another road/rail route connecting north-eastern
Burundi to the railhead at Isaka in Tanzania is now being developed. The
proposed Project would finance the construction of one section of the road
link. The operations of the port of Bujumbura are now handled by a private
company but are to be gradually transferred to public ownership. In view,



-  8  -
however, of the present weaknesses of the public enterprises, and of the
importance of the port of Bujumbura for Burundi's economy, it is expected
that in the context of the ongoing efforts to restructure the public enterprise
sector (see para. 17), the formulation of a suitable institutional and
operational framework for the port will be addressed on a priority basis.
Transport operations on Lake Tanganyika are handled by a private company
in which the Government is an important shareholder. The maintenance and
needed replacement of the existing fleet cannot be financed with revenues
from the present low tariffs, which are set by the Government. One of
the responsibilities of the planning expert to be recruited under the Project
to assist the MTPT would be to develop a policy to promote efficient lake
transport operations.
28.        Because of the capacity problems and bottlenecks on the Tanzanian
Railways and at the port of Dar-es-Salaam, the bulk of Burundi's oil imports
now comes from Nairobi, and an increasing proportion of general cargo imports
is also being routed through Mombasa. However, operations are hindered
by cumbersome administrative procedures and political instability in the
region. The very costly delays and interruptions in the transport flows
in recent years have led the countries concerned and the donor agencies
to address the question of the bottlenecks affecting the landlocked countries
in central East Africa. In 1980, the Bank Group prepared a study on the
external transport connections of Burundi and Rwanda.           The conclusions
of the study were that: (a) the two existing surface routes now serving
Rwanda and Burundi offer these countries the least-cost access to Indian
Ocean ports, at least in the medium term; and (b) the efficiency of these
routes could be markedly improved by a number of measures (e.g., simplified
customs and border regulations) and through improvement works already under
way or planned. A more extensive study on the international transport
connections of Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda and eastern Zaire, to be completed
in 1981, is also being carried out by the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD). These studies should assist the countries
involved and the potential donor agencies to agree on a plan of action
and priority investments for the medium and longer term. A conference
is expected to be held in 1981 under the auspices of UNCTAD to follow-up
on the recommendations of these studies.
The Highway Subsector.
29.       Road Network.  Burundi has approximately 5,500 km of roads and
tracks. The length of the network is adequate for the country's needs.
Its condition, however, is unsatisfactory.  The classified network totals
about 3,000 km, of which 280 km (9.5%) are paved and 90 km are of low gravel
standard; the rest are earth roads and tracks. In addition, there are
about 2,500 km of unclassified earth tracks. Some 160 km of paved roads
are under construction, and detailed engineering has been completed or
is underway for another 400 km. Traffic volumes are light throughout the
country: in 1976 only 10% of the network carried more than 50 vehicles
per day. The highest traffic volumes were on the roads around Bujumbura.
The vehicle fleet was estimated at 10,150 in 1978.
30.       The MTP, through its Directorate General of Roads (DGR), is respons-
ible for designing, building and maintaining classified roads. Local authori-
1/ A "Report on the International Transportation Bottlenecks affecting Rwanda
and Burundi", December 1980,  No. 3224 - EAF



-  9  -
ties are responsible for building and maintaining the unclassified eartl
tracks. While the highest professional positions in DGR are filled by
experienced Burundian engineers and managers, there continues to be an
acute shortage of qualified local mid-level technical and administrative
staff. To fill this gap, technical assistance is being provided, under
IDA financed projects and by French and Belgian aid; in addition, the Govern-
ment is sending Burundian nationals abroad for training.
31.       Until 1979 budgetary allocations for highway maintenance were
consistently below requirement. Since 1979, however, the allocations have
been adequate. To insure that the allocations continue to be adequate,
the Government would provide the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for road maintenance during the execution of the Project
(section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). During the last quarter
of each fiscal year of the Borrower during project implementation, consulta-
tions would take place between the Government and the Association on the
adequacy and allocation of the annual maintenance budget, which would not
be less than the equivalent in real terms of US$3.0 million, the minimum
estimated requirement for 1981. Road users contribute to Government revenues
through import duties, taxes on vehicles, spare parts and lubricants, through
registration and licensing fees, and a special surtax on fuel. It is estimated
that total revenues collected in 1978 were slightly higher than road admi-
nistration and maintenance expenditures.
32.       Transport Industry.  Burundi's road transport industry is charac-
terized by a large number of private trader/truckers owning one vehicle.
Entry into the road transport operations is relatively easy and transport
routes are not regulated. It is expected that road upgrading will increase
competition and thereby benefit both the producers and consumers who depend
on the trader/truckers' services. Although uniform tariffs for the transport
of goods are set by the Government, these tariffs are not fully enforced
and actual prices can differ according to demand and road conditions.
The Government is aware of this and is likely to replace the present system
by a more appropriate system of maximum and minimum tariffs. One of the
responsibilities of the planning expert to be recruited under the Project
for the Planning Unit of the MTPT (see para. 26) would be to review this
matter. In 1978, the Government created a semi-public International Transport
Company (INTRACO), and a parastatal domestic transport company (OTRABU).
The two agencies, however, have experienced severe financial problems.
The Government recently decided to liquidate INTRACO and established a
new international transport division within OTRABU which acquired part:
of INTRACO's assets.
33.       IDA Operations in the Sector.  Two IDA financed Highway projects
in Burundi have assisted Government in training the MTP staff, in developing
maintenance activities, and in improving the road network. The Highway
Maintenance Project (US$5.0 million), signed in 1974, had its origin in
the 1970 engineering credit which financed a study of Burundi's highway
maintenance needs. The project, which was completed in September 1980,
helped finance the preparation and implementation of a four-year maintenance
program, including the establishment of a manual road maintenance organization
and one mechanized maintenance brigade, as well as the provision of technical
assistance for these activities and for the training of local staff. It
also included studies for future highway development, which provided the



-  10  -
basis for the Second Highway Project. The project, for which a completion
report is being prepared, appears to have been successful in improving
the manual road maintenance organization.
34.       The ongoing Second Highway Project (US$14 million),signed in
1978, is financing the paving of a major national road, the start-up phase
of an improvement program for selected secondary roads and bridges, the
construction of a new central laboratory, the strengthening of the mechanized
maintenance brigade and the provision of technical assistance and equipment
for the ongoing maintenance program. The quality of the road construction
works is good, but progress has been delayed by the disruption in transport
through neighbouring countries in 1979; because of these interruptions
and of higher than expected cost increases, final costs are expected to
be 50% higher than estimated. The maintenance and technical assistance
components are generally meeting their objectives; however, due to difficul-
ties in recruiting and retaining counterparts, who often resigned to join
the private sector, it has not been possible to reduce the level of technical
assistance as expected.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed Project was appraised in June 1980.  Negotiations
were held in Washington from March 9 to March 13, 1981. The Government
delegation was led by Mr. Francois Nahigombeye, Director General of the
MTP.  A detailed description of the Project components can be found in
the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3228-BU), dated April 1, 1981, which is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features
of the Project are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized
in Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
36.       The main objectives of the proposed Project would be:  (a) to
continue to assist the Government in improving the road network; (b) to
improve an alternative external route to the port of Dar-es-Salaam (para.
27); (c) to strengthen the road improvement and maintenance capability
of the MTP; and (d) to strengthen the planning capability of the MTP and
MTPT.
37.       The proposed Project would consist of the following:
(a) construction to two-lane bituminous paved
standard of the first 39.4 km section of
the Ngozi-Kobero road (Ngozi-Junction RIG 14);
(b) improvement of about 360 km of selected secondary
and tertiary roads;
(c) acquisition and replacement of equipment for
the existing mechanized maintenance brigade,
procurement of equipment for a second
mechanized brigade which is to be established under



- 11 -
the Project, and acquisition of tools, vehicles
and camp equipment for the ongoing manual
maintenance program; and
(d) consultants and technical assistance services.
38.       Main Road Construction:  The existing Ngozi-Kobero road is in
poor condition, with tortuous alignment, very poor earth surface and inadequate
or non-existent drainage. Maintenance is difficult and costly due to the
rugged terrain, occasional sections of unconsolidated rock, frequent heavy
rains and distance to quarries. It was decided not to upgrade the road
to gravel standards as maintenance costs would be excessively high and
overall costs would not be less than for a paved road. The first section
of the road (to be financed under the proposed Project) would be constructed,
by contractor, to two-lane bituminous paved standards, and improvements
in alignment would shorten it from 42.5 to 39.4 km. The second section
will be financed by the African Development Fund and cofinancing is being
sought for the third section.
39.        Improvement of Secondary and Tertiary Roads.  Approximately,
360 km of roads, which have been selected on the basis of economic criteria,
would be upgraded to low gravel standard. Each year, the road improvement
program would be agreed upon between the Government and the Association,
not later than three months before the beginning of the Burundian fiscal
year (section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement). The first year
program was agreed during negotiations. Major works would be carried out
by force account by the MTP. In addition, to encourage the development
of a local road construction industry, minor works representing up to 30
percent of improvement works would be awarded to local contractors (see
para. 47). Force account works, which are justified by the low capacity
of the local construction industry and the scattered location of works,
would be executed by two mechanized maintenance brigades, which would receive
new equipment (para. 40). All works would entail a substantial use of
labor-intensive techniques.
40.        Mechanized and Manual Maintenance Program.   In order to improve
the capacity of the existing mechanized brigade and to establish a second
brigade, the proposed Project would finance the replacement and acquisition
of equipment. This would enable the two brigades to meet the country's
mechanized road improvement and maintenance needs in the medium term.
In addition, the proposed Project would continue assistance to manual mainte-
nance operations by providing technical assistance to help supervise operations
and by financing the purchase of hand tools, vehicles and camp equipment
for the 3,000-man maintenance labor force of the MTP.
41.        Consultant Services and Technical Assistance.  Consultants would
be engaged to supervise construction of the road. For the preparation
and implementation of the road improvement works, the Government has requested
that three French technical experts remain. As a part of their tasks,
these experts, who would continue to be financed under French technical
assistance, (para. 44), would identify the most appropriate technology
for the execution of works carried out by force account and local contractors.
In addition, when and if required, the experts would provide technical
assistance to the local contractors.



-  12  -
42.        Technical assistance would also be provided for the following:
(a) continuing assistance begun under the two previous projects for the
implementation of the manual and mechanical maintenance programs and for
on the job training; (b) conducting a study to define a five-year (1982-
86) paved road rehabilitation and maintenance program; (c) continuing
assistance to the Public Works School in Bujumbura, the Training Center
in Gitega and the manual maintenance brigades; (d) supervising construction,
under a USAID financed Project, of a tertiary road, including the management
of labor-intensive operations and (e) providing assistance in establishing
transport planning and programming capabilities in the MTP and MTPT (see
para. 26). The qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment
of consultants and technical assistants employed under the Project would
be acceptable to the Association (section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement). In order to avoid the inefficiencies and additional costs
caused by the loss of trained local staff (see para. 34), the Government
would (i) assign three counterparts to each technical assistance expert
financed under the Project, except for the Project manager for the maintenance
program and the two economists employed in the Planning Units; and (ii)
require counterparts to remain in the service of the MTP or of the MTPT
for at least three years from the date of their appointment as counterparts
(section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
43.        Total Project cost is estimated at US$35.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$25.9 million. US$2.9 million represents taxes
and duties to be financed by Government. A contingency allowance of 10%
has been included to cover increases in quantities. Price contingencies
are based on estimates of inflation rates, both international and local,
as follows: 1980 - international 12.5%, local 20%; 1981 - international
9.0%,local 15.0%; 1982 - international 8.5%, local 12%; 1983 - international
7.5%, local 12%, and 1984 - international 7.5%, local 12%. Supervision
of road construction and preparation and supervision of road improvements
would require about 130 man-months of consultants' services at about US$8,000
per man-month. Other technical assistance would require about 520 man-
months of experts services at an average rate of US$10,000 per man-month
including salary, social costs, firm's overhead, profit and overseas allowance,
and international travel. The total cost of consultants and technical
assistance services has been estimated at US$6.3 million, excluding contin-
gencies.
44.        The Project would be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 20.5 million
(US$25.0 million). Parallel financing would be provided through an agreed
grant of US$1.0 million for maintenance equipment and tools from the Administra-
tion Generale de la Cooperation au Developpement (AGCD, Belgium); an agreed
grant of US$2.0 million from Japan to finance equipment for the maintenance
brigades; an agreed grant of US$0.3 million from France for technical assist-
ance to the MTP (para. 41); and an anticipated UNDP grant of US$0.5 million



-  13  -
for technical assistance to the MTP and MTPT for planning and programming.
External financing would cover 90% of the total Project cost net of taxes
and duties (100% of the Project's foreign exchange cost and US$2.9 million
in local costs). The remaining local costs, or US$3.3 million (US$6.2
million including taxes and duties), would be financed by the Government.
imp lementat ion
45.       The MTP would be responsible for the implementation of all Project
components, with the exception of the technical assistance to the MTPT
for planning and programming which would be under the MTPT. The detailed
engineering for the road construction has been completed and preselection
of contractors has started. Road construction would start in the fourth
quarter of 1981 and take about 30 months to complete. Improvement of the
road network would be spread over a three-year period starting in mid-1981.
The Project is expected to be completed by mid-1984.
Procurement
46.        The contract for the main road construction  (US$12.0 million,
excluding contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines. To
minimize the risk of shortages of materials, due to delays in transportation
through neighboring countries, tender documents would include provisions
for adequate stocks of materials.
47.       Most of the improvements to the road network (US$3.5 million,
excluding contingencies) would be carried out by force account. Minor
works would be awarded to local contractors, following local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association  (Schedule 3(B) of the
Development Credit Agreement).  It is expected that up to 30% of works
would be awarded to local contractors. As this would be the first involvement
of local contractors in road works in Burundi, particular attention would
be paid to the conditions of bidding. If required, local contractors would
receive technical assistance (see para. 41). All equipment financed under
the Credit (US$1.2 million excluding contingencies) would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Disbursements
48.        The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed on the basis of:
(a) 95% of total expenditures, net of taxes and duties, for main road construc-
tion; (b) 70% of total expenditures, net of taxes and duties, for road
improvement works; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 40% of local expendi-
tures for road maintenance equipment; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 60% of local expenditures for consulting and technical assistance services.
All disbursements would be fully documented except for expenditures under
force account for improvement works which would be made against certified
statements of expenditure and of work progress. In order to ensure the
completion of the improvement program by force account, the Association
would be able to reduce the disbursement rate if, at any time during the
execution of the program, it estimates that, at the 70 percent disbursement
rate, the remaining funds would be insufficient to cover the remaining
works (schedule 1(7) of the Development Credit Agreement). An advance
of US$1 million under the Project Preparation Facility was approved



-  14  -
in 1980 to help finance the cost of technical assistance for the maintenance
program and would be refunded under the Credit.
Accounting and Auditing
49.        Separate accounts would be maintained by the MTP for each Project
component and would be audited annually by the Auditor General or other
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. It was agreed during negotiations
that all project accounts, including statements of expenditures, together
with the auditor's report would be submitted annually to IDA, not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year of the Borrower. (section
4.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
50.        The construction to paved standard of the first section of the
Ngozi-Kobero road would improve communications and reduce transport costs
between Bujumbura and the regions of Ngozi and Muyinga. It would also
contribute to the creation of an improved transport connection to the Indian
Ocean. The main benefits from this investment would be to reduce vehicle
operating costs. The direct beneficiaries of the cost savings would be
traders and truckers who, because of increased competition in transport
operations, are expected to pass on the benefits to producers and consumers.
This component, which would account for 46% of the Project cost excluding
contingencies, is estimated to yield an economic return of 15%.
51.       The road improvement component would stimulate the development
of the areas served. Sections to be improved would be selected on the
basis of their importance to the economy of the area. The main benefits
derived from the improvement program would be savings in vehicle operating
costs and the strengthening of the capability of the DGR to carry out road
improvement works, through training of the DGR staff. Moreover, it is
expected that the award of some of the works to local contractors would
help build up a local construction industry. The benefits from the reduced
operating costs would also be passed on to producers and consumers as a
result of competition among traders/truckers. It is expected that this
component, which would account for 25% of Project cost excluding contingencies,
would have an average economic return of 27%.
52.        Recurrent manual maintenance operations of the classified network,
reorganized and supported under the two previous projects, have succeeded
in keeping most of the network passable throughout the year. Continuation
and strengthening of these operations are essential. As established under
the previous projects, these recurrent maintenance operations would have
a rate of return of 20% minimum. The average economic rate of return of
the construction, improvement and maintenance components, representing
79 percent of Project costs, would be 19%. The costs of consultant services
for supervision of road construction and road improvement components have
been included in the costs used for the economic evaluation of the respective
components. The funds earmarked for consultants engaged for training would
have considerable benefits in terms of institution building. The cost of
assistance for planning and programming would have a high return in terms
of the introduction of planning procedures and maintenance and investment



- 15 -
programs which will permit to improve allocation of scarce resources.
The benefits to be derived from these two categories of consultant services,
however, cannot be quantified accurately.
53.       The experience of the past highway projects indicates that transport
bottlenecks in neighboring countries may cause delays in shipment of imported
materials, which could delay Project implementation. To minimize this risk,
tender documents for the proposed Project would include provisions for
adequate stocks of materials. The hazardous geological conditions of some
areas which the main road traverses constitute another risk. These conditions
have been adequately studied and will be monitored carefully during project
implementation. Also, in past projects, the fact that many Burundian coun-
terparts in the civil service resigned to join the private sector has been
a major source of additional technical assistance costs and delays in insti-
tution building. Under the proposed Project, three Burundian counterparts
would be assigned to most technical assistance experts and each counterpart
would commit himself to remain in the service of the MTP or the MTPT for
at least three years, starting from the date of his appointment as counterpart.
These measures are expected to reduce this risk considerably.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Burundi
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
55        Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. There are no additional conditions of effectiveness
of the Proposed Credit.
56.       I am satisfied that the Proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Attachments                          Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 1, 1981



- 16 -                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                        Page  1  of  5
BURUtDI - SOCIAL I!TDICATOPS DATA SHEET
B1'RUNDI                       REFERENCE GROUPS O'EICHTEF  AVTERAFS
LAI; AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                        - MOST PECEI'T ESTIMATE)-
TCTAL             2 7. 8
AGRICULTURAL      1 7. 1                                MOST RECENT           LOI' INCOME             MIDDLE IICOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFFICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFPICA SOUTH OF SAHPAA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0         90.0     180.0                 260.0                    868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       11.0/c      16.0       12.0                 80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, NID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       2. 7        3.4       4 . 0
UREBA  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.2         2.2        2.3                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         8.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          21.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        95.0       121.0      142.0                 27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    168. 8       208.6     231.0                  82. 6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.5        42.5       43.9                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                          54.6        54. 7     53.1                  52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9         2.8        3.0                  2.8                      2.8
POPULATION CGRWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0         2.4       2.1                   2.7                      2.7
URBAN                               1.9         2.4        3.2                  6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0        47.0       47.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        22.0       20.0                 19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6d       2.8        3.1                  3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            *          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          103.0       101.0      106.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREtENTS)                    91.0        98.0      97.0                  90.2                     92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.0        61.0       60.0                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANLMSAL AND PULSE       28.0        30.0       30.0                 18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0        36.0       28.0                 27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         42.0       45.0                 45.3                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       140.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                ..        77.0       94. 0/e              58.0                     66.8
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..                  28.9
URBAN                                ..          ..       95.0/e               67.0
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          71390.0     55830.0   45020.0               30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      6340.0      7490.0    6180.0                5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             820.0       740.0        ..                1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                ..        30.0
RURAL                                ..      1790. 0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..         .
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.0
A\'ERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 17 -
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURIINDI                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEF%GCES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INTCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOIUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
AD JUSTED EUROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  18.0         30.0      23.0                   57.7                      61. 7
hALE                  27.0         41.0      29.0                   74.2                      69.2
FEMALE                 9.0         20.0       18.0                  54.1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          2.0       3.0                   10.0                      20.6
MALE                   1.0          3.0        4.0                  13.7                      29.2
FEIALE                 1.0          1. 0      2.0                    7. 1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)  35.0           24.0       13.0                   6.8                       7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         37.0      32.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           15.0         12.0      16.0                   25.2                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.9/c         ..      25.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 9         1. 1      1. 5                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPDLATION                          20.0         20.0      31.0                   31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         .,                    1. 8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          0. 1      0. 3                   4. 6                    24. 2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        ..                     ..                      n. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1398.7       1715.2    1958.0
FEM4ALE (PERCENT)                   45. 1        44.8      44.0                   33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               90.0         87.2      85.0                   80. 7                    54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          3.9       4.8                    8. 1                    17.R
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 52.7         51.2       49.6                  42.2                      3P.h
MALE                                  58.5         57.2       55.8                  55.1                      48. :
FEMALE                                47.0         45.3      43.4                   29.5                     2Q.,
ECONOMIC DEPENDENiCY RATIO               0.9          0.9        0.9                   1.2                      1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOIIEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           .      213.0                  138.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      136.0                   86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       37.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          .,       55.L
RURAL                                 * **                 85.0                   66. 9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  /d 1957;  Ie 1979.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, population and related estinates have also been
revised; all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



3000081113....1 I*lT'0- P01 31010      d1
~81  1410   1100  b C    OOIOII(031l0141.110-   -01I00-
7~~~~~11                                    -______ -                                                                        83011301
',o   .oo4018bo   081   11040)00T100 .0101   111  0                                        409000400   14   Oo-I0.ooo100.oO
0.1  -(0104  009    00030010090000   00.004801110                           ~        04   O304130   10300   4  080  01  P00  301  01011
T-         0101-- 0P008000I011  -000011                  -T010000   0'00                 oo-'                                      Po,oo0bo31o-040
11114h   P01P010100    0'000100000IoO:d                             9   u  130*1313    03143310p001  -dOpOl-l
.I1d.0 I.d ooll4   10-C8   11   _.00  11001101T 314014111381  11.-q                                                31  '1800 d140  Ob-o.d.- 10140 4013010
-  191  115118-  3001   1110)  301  3031030   -1-T0101  P111300 I          (.1(1   13001  P`11 'I33T1d3 p330400  1000000d             I800   q-0  1101-
I IR   l.,   _FOOPO11                           P010000    0  11111   0  11.  00031111   1800)  000  11
TMF~~~~: -1   Ta   SS,) I ... I   -1  -.-d  -j.oh.oy-  3101)4006  1   010100  40
1314001 q p1041011 - (P081 801 4010-0- 0004) .30000 101100 40 10001.01a  0T 1004
10000000000  08053                     '0050 4Z6  PI 016T '096T 131T410 -1TT 01) PIoII-P 'ISP 1101I
p- 59 p-  ~~t ..p-   -.'1d101 1040 0" 10 11,7      14=1 0            _ 00  9000ST 1  0.11 96T00]  0o.z903  *ool 00 1119040 0 P-   111T0-0oS  8
10100-1, 3013I018 d1-A
T,0. lIp 4'P"10  -130  3000 P" '00801T0000 14   0100031313                          1   00   04.0000      10  WI-T 003 ~7Jt              9 6111 T    01  SOOI 
Mn   I   --T~-dVYI-d   ---,u   --P  ~46T P"  "I 61                  P10T  140 00 08 0 WIOdOId -,.100q  ..1 100    ....as  .1 ..     000. 1*
0looOdl...1T. 1   0T    S00 I';   d   -T-    I0  -113   0100T"" 10101               Jo.. Z90  WI 0.104 T-03 JO    11l 0tJ   34 11 1               01-4  118 38-1
q.01;140   131P1*'13'0003_00.01131S   001._plS3140'111   0                                                       4PT433.30  4110  1000   10
ooooo.o001   -1100P 'L    -100 -  (101)104                  0 0               PI100    JO    1  0-   W  1  000 P030014 1100 OT  33319 04 10T-  :IOIIO
I.  -W~~~~~T                      C~~~--TSli   6T6 P.   11               ~            oo300~13   4940013   lono111;.0110
'0961   11)140111J  301103 3T0IPoI..                        '0T001001b. P--           -0'o41I   110   TI 9009 JO 14411 13g  'L.p ild pooj JO lddoo..
PI 3oo'4 '1300;'80. .;00..0 I00I' - (7003010   11-000014                          0  1081  0J1113  01 2000000           . WI--ll1"10d0  $0 .000-41l18p -1  p01
100$ 14T 1T0   0  30111   0100   0*  113I I(0110110) 111.3q T-,-                  1T-  '140.04'lSSa                  1 1 3 I       008.0   014pW0
'091   013151000103100000000800          10          -001131*  10;8j    ip 31      d-030014 T.   9111  ft   q10111   11   0
~~0l 0161                                    0-00 0001             1101        008100806111               WI 90'33looOPOO  0 _ T 43T0 33000008
'30803'300104  0P0010...1010 P                  P               113'11 3II3411                   yd.   P"O 'oO. 0  11kq      o      l00 '.10=
0010 ..     0891         .00080 - o.0 111100           I 31111l  *S01d . pldO p 310 P40   11.01 1o.o
7       -q-l.~~6001141p3                              3048o00~-)1 1 1  O1111)3001 -T                                 P-00  30000-11
33.300  0001P  1                                                                     '018616 AT      '060 1-131  3o  '8lp301...00010333361ISO-qS
30033043T0010101--111d                                                            -P-- bI3100  0  11 T0 100100 41 Tdd3 JO  1101p04 *S.3y (0811   1 
01 0140  4  3  833  -I3J0*  100$11  111100  100040100         0313)0  3')-       11010  1111   WI3--     140TTd11  40141T(1.30  JO- P903
'410 8100   10) 011T1l5100 0  30.'10P. 0  00m          11 d11  '33) IWIIR 111114 T11   3011ddp0 P-; II4 111 -T 81b1  00 0..
143810  3  0 3*011118loooo  0   01100  100000000             ~       140P5  33  3403   001144'3081  03  1   0  01081
'40  1008010    1114008 '~1dS011  01110011101  00*.,JO  P00          10.1.0.   00J   14      011-66)Sl'   l   01081   OjJ   10
31010  1110114    40.TP    IM-               -   4 - (000011000lW I0_*3001 P-1104 T000lT1T010011l.1d016
* 03J0 0  10303  0 4  00010631  060  10300800100000  0_0010T6 CY  00
110001  0  110000031010   000000  p0100d   oo          T0001109                                                           Olo   3       l0_00    410   0
00*OIO40IIOII   0     011100   0l04    Il   101014                     03018  000-40408  4   3.0   t6)P..111-14  J   10
I_       1000.P031'0110T000                       P0033003001oS                     -.P- 1011  9001T  1)  130-11111P00
03111141~1103   3l0III051O001030                                     -.81301100.Jl00lolO.13.ol00p000-00;
31  014   O  10.133  T-14---1*   0  p*311010        o oP-01                       oo-soI9016-0  181P-(311I01  0000  300309- 30J 81   000
10101 1  ..1q 3050 110130 -, )00131."d  p01..0.  010) 6151I03                           1:11-PO  00"   ,-111040  -3 4I4T0       14100II   13   00   11
-2-d ftT Td ATTII  T    3T38 I - 1100-  (1101P-      31 4- 0000T 000011000
00- 141021 -10T-I  1900 - - T18 (10T31T-d 'p31 -. 001   100011                                                                       81   06         001'91  001
'88000                P1101000013  10   1093111l0-   I                       13~'18a01  '18 '100
1.1" B61 P-  0461 '96T   '03 T1dj
P"13311  10   31300   -101p0101011 11        83d ,i... 00 ..... )0 118030       -1103p 1000I.q   TT ,                          -7  -
11810o3303604101  4100.00    301-d0dW 301- '0801 - 1000321180035                                                        144031 1134   000T100d01
I. ...q-. Lq P-PTAI -T-1 A-I-P-I-I P    i-I~-d            'OL-OL61  -  'Oi-0967 '09-056  --I  -T,3T8d.3103
'o-T          ql11081  10T00310001 T103 .11100 3P-                10003I~          oo-o,-oo  030110  1190 01        -T14011-         00003800  1*0             T-1 10
oooo   0   411.   01100   021        033130000.:. 4010   k,_                                                                  Il  P..000006   0960   01
10    0001-110JT41011 'Id                      0   13)0  0   11                      .003    000  0100   O13(1   O3301081'00I .100
-0484          0114  3810  130   300101  9-040 -                      300            00304030JO10311014   4210414   O3-3   4   0  1143
010.31  0.30100   l111   130013131111J  0l10003T30  00-1(T)4  1110151  l4PTT  'OlI03.130031031
~0'10WI313  1100300-  1131~1  ~    '100  -1040  0131                000S101  431000  310 10130o.1001  000  o  360   OO'03.T4
30040101041413014            03018100001J 1015T-T108 1P4114`                0 - 0 P 304T    01113000 300N
... ...                 I.,         ZI I.     00000         -1300011*.  4  80  W    300411   410I10333114T0   4
-T ft"I-  IqI-I                0340                      3001olioo  00 *OT 314  110033T40  111000301T100  -00001001  10000
-0101001431131000  IIII111p1                 '10   0'101413130411'Il00008
13111433 I00d   0010   o0101    o. 1000   100100                              1111J   001010   113*1J   0    l8n04   010001
II30TI'11   10;-)1110   0001)  00000   011                             ~     'o*o;s    00.410.201    I06   3100   0801   00,3
-p-   .q.    "I -IT,:,        T7           '31.  p1 Ooooo                   0 T0108 0..T."01013TITO_04000  lll  001010013103
WI300001  301T1-000T 10110 3I 0111    '0 1T-T111d'30d110                           -.3 04 '1o001310043 111r .41 -T                      101 310d31 p01 T 3
1301001010000  10  83'040:1  0  101TP             0300$014                ouo0  041   00    1...o 410  908000410   0O.0.x   J1   o
T:AIT71 11IT::1131-;lq1 Al-T-.d.dIllp1, UOdIP O1T411013111   01  11   T0 1001Ill1  101310
.T_101 PlO0 T      0033T_ 8 .. 0 13T-; P-001  - -TP14 0    -0T1116   'II 8330            0681'01'98008JO3-(IOIU)                               0pl'0000110
'3130110   110110138   100083  WI 11100104 0300P1011001*010003. o1 ...,04  'I!)  3041d-                                                              10
0101  W   '111410  14011111  W   133.3 000001   -14T 18010  3080~-v       _l-:"l-                IT  I.   I  -A-P-  .             TTU      -    -.
"84100 3.418 3.104100 11001111-513 104                                                          -T-1P-T 1010    RZ'P l4I90I1T010 1401300.I            9 1P
I 81114   I  00 18001,111801  044 d0    ('00..1 ..3 '300                             916-W  '0061 '0960 0110410- o4-111031            10  O38304  0(000
'131l131OIOWI*  4 14)0*IoOq0      14113  110810000  31010  -11  1113003   W   11000  '0143WI  180811'I '.31100   '20001~0
0110I p1 4111  31110  '20030  '31111040110   'pp0000  00  II  110 1100  330003'011JO               -T01 -l1 : 03181  -  010 - 33  KTT430030 0306
10803T                        T1,031430811  l0l3033 T 081410  11   3
T..WI  P11. %01 -11  T:3 -                                                          iI3T04-110 11  311014300  '3111110  .001004                        Al0P66 ....  '00(0
-11   I 030410  1401.0 T43   I 853 I3      --1010 P I 0040  00"T 100            06    (003d  61-Td61  31114    910 Id80T.          3  300313030  -l q 11800
384  80314  O  31000600431  110  q  1808  0101p0  '340      1"'3014  *41301011  3001313  1040-T--T                      -((0)8000  1  .
P111-    00100  - 10   W   140  100-                    --d130019                                                                       T.008113
'330000011011   I '1110 101031  '3300  100141   o3o~0   1n  loo   c61   0111  0  0  10 SIT9.3  101 W. I  03411  '31110ZI             OO   0
3.000T0_O00300  1000  00105100TT00a13   30301101300                              1001100   111TP11  131410011J   3300-110001
- 9610320000  104310813300P1  10   8101'1018*1   WI 11....1 303110J111601103  900      1
-0000000010  00  3138  00  10000 00 0..00.0100164III  00010101('383  WI-d                                                               o -;'T   IOJY'
T0011.00 I   10413  10II       1310  3314    '1000  010l10   100                     'Idoo   3101191  W   0110o341- 30             I100   10010  10d
3001141                                                                       0331103 300113  00TIOoTII 8481 3001I..                'l.....0..*0 p1301
05  14  10  104  PI 0030P0  41100;3031  0014111p00100  0100001  1113323* 60    T18    -  1"opl-S. IOOIIJS  04  01'(30 t100  d T*01'-,1~
I  XSNNV                                                 -"- Ip-" '



- 19 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMTC INDICATORS
OuTpUT, LABOR FORCE AN) PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value ap'ed
,US$ Min. e
Agriculture                    391.5      55.5
Industry                       115.9      16.4
Services                       197.8      28.1
Total                . 705.2    100.0
Central   r;overnn,ent-
GOVEPN%ENT FINt.NCE                  iercent of- _kP
1979 (P)             1979               _976 - 78
Current Recipts                100382.4               14.6                  14.&
Current Expenditure             8,546.7               12.0                  11.2
Current Surplus                 1,835.7                2.6                   3.6
Capital Expenditures            6,300.0                8.8                   8,0
External Assistance (net)       2179',?                3,8                   3.6
'.VNEY, C EDIT and PPICES                  1975        1976        1977        1978         1979        1980 (August)
(Million BuE outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Monev                    3544.4       5220.9      8233.2      9411.2      11452.7       10445.0
Bank credit to Public Sector             1271.6       1125.0       270.8      1660.8      4150.4         4495.0
Bank credit to Private Sector             997.0       1532.2      1866.9      4491.3      6220.4         6741.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as Z of GDP                10.8         13.2        16.8        17.0        16.1
General Price Index (1978=100)            153.1        163.6       174.6       216.4       272.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        15.8          6.8         6.7        23.9        25.7
Bank c-edit to Public Sector               41.7        -11.5       -75.9       513.3       149.9
Bank credit to Private Sector             -60.3         53.7        23.]       132.0        38.5
BALA'-C0  0r PA-4M-N-\TS                                                        MERC-At)ISE  EXPOPTS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
1977    1978    1970   18Q 2/                                USt Mln    x
(M'llions  US Dollars)
Ex'ports of Goods, lFS                  96.3    71.4   111.9    72.7            Coffee                    75.2   91.1
Inports of Goods, NFS                   94.7   123.4   192.9   208.3            Cotton                     2.1    2.5
Resource Gap (deficit    -)              1.6   -52.0   -81.0  -135.6            Skins                      0.7    0.8
Tea                        1.8    2.2
Interest Pavments (net)                 -0.6    -0.9    -1.2    -3.9
Workers' Remittances                     ..
Other Factor Payments (net)            -13.1   -13.6    -8.9    -8.3
Net transfers                           29.0    32.7    34.3    47.8            All other commodities    2.8    3.4
Balance on Current Account              IT.    -ITjT   -5ET -7    1                TOTAL                 82.6  100.0
NOTE:    All conversions  to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/ Consolidated statement of Government finances.
2! Preliminary estimates.



- 20 -                                  ANNEX   I
Page 5 cf 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    19
1977    1978    1979    1980-
(Million US Dollars)
Direct Foreign lnvestmen.                 -        -        -        -           EXTEAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                        18.9    20.2    41.7    46.7                                               US$ Min
Amortization                          3.5      2.6      2.7     2.3
Subtotal                             15.4    17.6    39.0    44.4            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   103.(i
Capital Grants                          13.8    20.9    25.4    31.1             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt         ..
Other Capital (net)                     -0.3   -24.6    -4.3    24.6             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i.                       0.2      3.2    -6.7        -
Increase in Reserves (-)               -46.1    16.7       3.4      -            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980o- 4
Gross Reserves (end year)               95.9    83.4    92.7    92.9 31          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        3.5
Net Reserves (end year)                 86.0    69.3    65.9    65.9             Non-Guarar.teed Private Debt          ..
Total outstanding and disbursed
Fuel and Related waterials
Imports of which:
Petroleum                      5.6      6.7    12.6    25.0            IDA LENDING,December 31,1980
Exports of which:                                                               (Million US Dollars)
Petroleum                       -        -        -        -
IBRD          Mt,D
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding &
Through Feb. 1973                    Since May 3, 1976                             Disbursed             -           37.5
US$1.00  -  BuF 87.5                 US$1.00 - BuF 90.0                        tUndisbursed              -           5  2
Outstanding incl.
BuFlO   -  US$1.14                  BuF 100 - US$1.11                             undisbursed                       )2.7
From March 1978 to Mav 2, 1976
US$1.00 - BuF 78.75
BuF 100 - US$1.27
1/ Preliminary estimates.
21 Central Bank
3/   September 3C,  1980                                  ..   not availrble
4I   Ratio of Debt Service to Export                           not applicable
of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
March 16, 1981



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO BURUNDI
(as of January 31, 1981)
Amount
Loan or                                                       US$ million
Credit                                                     (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose               Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan -/ and five credits fully disbursed            4.8    9.80         -
593-BU    1975      Burundi    Second Coffee Improve-
ment                   -      5.20       0.75
626-BU    1976      Burundi    Fisheries Development   -       6.00        3.56
679-BU    1977      Burundi    Education                 -    10.00        0.20
731-BU    1978      Burundi    Development Bank          -     3.40        2.11
773-BU    1978      Burundi    Second Highway Project  -    14.00          6.23
917-BU    1979      Burundi    Second Technical
Assistance             -      2.50       1.79
918-BU    1979      Burundi    Forestry                  -     4.30        3.70
976-BU    1980      Burundi    Second Education          -    15.00       14.86
1049-BU   1980      Burundi    Urban Development         -    15.00       14.35
1058-BU   1981      Burundi    Telecommunications        -      7.70        7.70
Total                               4.8   92.90       55.25
of which has been repaid            4.8    0.20
Total now held                      0.0   92.70
Total undisbursed                   0.0   55.25       55.25
I/   Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for
the improvemnt of the Bujumbura-Muranvya road and the expansion of
the Lake port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 22 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in Burundi.
C. Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 593-BU          Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million
of December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 31,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project is a continuation of the first Coffee Improvement Project
(US$1,8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969). It is being co-financed
by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis and by Belgium (about
US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund has financed the construction of coffee washing
stations and of the road construction component, and Belgium assists in the
carrying out of a coffee research component.  The project is designed to support
the development of coffee and food production by strengthening and expanding
extension services and distribution of agricultural inputs; it includes a
pilot rural development program to improve livestock and food crop production.
Start up of the project was slow because of frequent changes in foreign and
local project staff. A new team of foreign experts has been appointed and
project management is now improving under a newly appointed Burundian manager.
Coffee extension work is showing favorable results. Husbandry methods practiced
by coffee growers continue to improve and coffee research activities are making
satisfactory progress. Construction of the eleven coffee washing stations
is nearly completed. The pilot food crop development programs have been redefined
and scaled down to ensure better control. The Credit is expected to be totally
disbursed by September 1981.
Credit No. 626-BU          Fisheries Development Project;  US$ 6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: February 22,1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is designed to increase the production of fish through
the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen and to improve
the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project also includes financing
for the preparation of rural development plans for the coastal region along
Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot development activities. The
project is co-financed by a US$1.2 million loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
Project implementation was initially very slow because of problems encountered
in the recruitment of both expatriate technical assistants and their national
counterparts and in the procurement of goods. Some of these constraints have
been overcome and the pace of project implementation has accelerated. Production
of a limited number of fiberglass hulls for fishing boats has begun and there
has been an improvement in the catch rates at some fishing centers. A new
experiment is underway to use low quality local wood and a minimum amount
of foreign exchange to produce longer lasting and cheaper laminated wood boats.
Problems of shortages of spare parts for the outboard engines are being solved.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and waeknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 23 -                         Page 3 of 5
Contracts for all the studies have been signed and all of them are underway.
However, SUPOBU's activities related to commercialization and marketing of
fish have been unsuccessful, causing severe financial strains on the Company.
Further to a recent review of implementation problems with the Government,
it is now proposed to stop all processing and marketing activities, and limit
SUPOBU's role to the provision of fishing craft and gear and extension services.
A proposal to amend the Credit Agreement will be made accordingly.
Credit No. 679-BU          Education Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28,
1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project assists the Government in continuing and consolidating
the reform of primary education. It aims at substantially expanding primary
school enrollments and improving the distribution of educational opportuni-
ties. It provides technical and financial assistance to the Rural Education
as well as for teacher training. As a result of a shortage of cement and
fuel caused by the hostilities in Uganda in 1979, project execution has been
delayed by about a year. Because of this interruption and of higher than
anticipated price increases, the Project is encountering high cost overruns.
The construction of 21 schools, a teacher training center and a printshop
has been completed. An additional eight schools are nearing completion and
the construction of seven new schools is in progress. Funds are nearly totally
disbursed.
Credit No. 731-BU         Development Bank Project; US$3.4 million of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in medium size
productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National Economic Develop-
ment Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started slowly. Following,
however, an Amendment of the Credit Agreement of June 1980, which allows the
use of up to US$1 million for financing loans to small-scale enterprises,
project execution has accelerated. It is expected that the Credit will be
fully committed by mid 1981. The newly established Industrial Development
Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial projects is now fully
staffed.
Credit No. 773-BU          Second Highway Project;  US$14.0 million of
March 29, 1978; Effective Date: July 27, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project finances the paving of a major national road, Bujumbura-
Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an improvement program for selected
secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the construction of a new central
laboratory, the strengthening of the mechanized maintenance brigade and the
provision of technical assistance and equipment for the ongoing maintenance
program. Project implementation, in particular major road construction, was
delayed by the lack of cement and fuel supplies due to disruption in international
transport through neighboring countries during the first half of 1979. Since



- 24 -                             ANNEX  II
Page 4 of 5
then, works have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these interruptions,
and of higher than expected price increases, the project is encountering high
cost overruns. The improvement program for selected secondary roads is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. The construction of a new central laboratory is well
underway and will be completed on time by mid-1981. The mechanized maintenance
brigade is aiready fully operational and has received all the equipment financed
under the project. The technical assistance component is, in general, meeting
its objectives; however, difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and
in retaining them in service once trained have not made possible the reduction
of expatriate technical assistance as planned.
Credit No. 917-BU         Second Technical Assistance Project;  US$2.5 million
of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 27,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project provides for the further strengthening of the Govern-
ment's planning mechanism and its project preparation and implementation capacity.
It includes continuation of the technical assistance to macro economic planning
at the Ministry of Planning, provision of experts to the planning divisions
of the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry and financing of feasibility
studies. The Credit is also financing consultant services to support the
Government's effort in restructuring public enterprises. Most of the experts
have been recruited. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU         Forestry Project;  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit of June 1, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the first stage
for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and plantations
to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish long-term
wood production and marketing policies.  The project includes the establish-
ment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus plantation and
a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided by France) and
financing of energy studies. The three expatriate technical assistants (project
manager, two silviculturists) are in post. The project is progressing satisfac-
torily.
Credit No. 976-BU         Second Education Project;  US$15.0 million of
April 23, 1980; Effectiveness Date: July 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle level technicians and
skilled workers in industrial trades and secretarial/administrative skills.
It includes the construction, furnishing and equipping of two new boarding
technical schools, a Mechanics Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training
Department in two existing schools and staff housing. The Credit became effective
on July 21, 1980 and implementation is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
25 -                            Page 5 of 5
Credit No. 1049-BU        Urban Development Project: US$15.0 million of
June 24, 1980; Effective Date:
October 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent infrastructure deficien-
cies in Bujumbura neighborhoods while laying the foundation for more efficient
future growth. Essential improvements to street, drainage, water and public
lighting networks will improve living conditions for 118,000 persons in Bujumbura,
or 85% of the population. Serviced plots and loans for house construction
will be made available to families between the 15th and 65th income percentiles.
An artisan promotion component will provide technical and financial assistance
to masons, carpenters, tailors, and metalworkers. An energy assistance program
will improve the efficiency of charcoal-burning metal stoves. A municipal
services component will strengthen the capacity of the Bujumbura municipality
to collect garbage and maintain streets, drains, and public buildings. Project
start-up is progressing satisfactorily. Following signature of a contract
for the majority of technical assistance posts, the first expatriate technicians
are in place in the Project Unit.
Credit No. 1058-BU        Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of August7,
1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project is a major component of the country's 1980-84 investment
program for telecommunications. It aims at improving the quality of existing
services while extending the coverage to rural areas and segments of the popula-
tion presently unserved. It would also strengthen the management of the tele-
communications parastatal company (ONATEL) in order to establish the company
as a financially autonomous entity, and provide assistance for staff training.
The project became effective on January 7, 1981.



-  26  -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Identification:                        August 1979
Preparation:                           Government, with IDA's
assistance
Appraisal Mission:                     June 1980
Negotiations:                          March 9 - 13, 1981
Planned Date of Effectiveness:         July 1, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
- Planning Units would be established within the MTP and MPTPT
by March 31, 1982 (para. 26).
- During the last quarter of each fiscal year of the Borrower,
the Government would consult the Association on the level
and structure of the maintenance budget which would be
at least equal, in real terms, to the minimum estimated
requirements for 1981 (para. 31).
- Each year, the road improvement program would be agreed
upon between the Government and the Association no later
than three months before the beginning of the Burundian
fiscal year (para. 39).
- The qualifications, experience, terms and conditions
of employment of consultants and technical assistance
experts employed under the Project would be acceptable
to the Association (para. 42).
- The Government would assign three counterparts to most of
the experts financed under the Project and would require the
counterparts to remain in the service of the MTP or MTPT
for at least for at least three years, starting from the
date of his/her appointment as counterpart (para. 42).



ANNEX ITT
Page 2 of 2
- 27 -
- If at any time during the execution of the road improvement
program by force account, the Association estimates that,
at the 70 percent disbursement percentage, the remaining funds
are insufficient to cover the remaining works, the Association
may adjust the disbursement percentage (para. 48).
Section III:  Special Conditions of the Project
- Road improvement works would be carried out by force
account or under contracts awarded following local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association. (para. 47).
- Project accounts would be audited annually by the Auditor
General, or by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. All Projects accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted annually to IDA, no later than
six months after the end of the fiscal year of the
Borrower (para. 49).
Section IV: Additional Conditions of Effectiveness
There are no additional conditions of effectiveness.






C E TR Ik I                                                                                                     30KIN
A F  c A N REPAL;C    S 5 UD A N    F F   OP 1*
aCAP$FR00'- r    [1,,               $^R_s'-\             d                                              :    BURUNDI
/0 QN/AOS            ci at 1' E0 i                                                  THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
0 A  E ) O g  ,J                , f -   X            S                                  3           ROAD    SYSTEM
RURUNDIa                  /  _
U AKAVU   2                                       22         :                                                                 /
'         (        ~          Y                          P                    b       p ,               /          ,' fiT<I ELk                       =
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI wtW                               #K.4 <4 -                                                   -                             j
0    en u      o / /
K.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
6-b~~~~~~~~~0
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,oo  ;o 0poi, to Po)  fS   EA/-~>>v.=toodl S
; rit tE (ga (y | v tfi {t/)//V / = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PavedRoads Orrdercoslructfon 
0  > '        ks           BUEURaS  cher                R luA*             /    !0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____EotErIiG,arvol SuorEaed Roadst     
tx s    0                         \' r       u         m           --            Pu am            _                            Road 10 to P TStO,ded Ear CoirootoonW
e)   /    O               \ MOnob                            @'~                                       toum:  Paoo4 -R dcstandSa a dod
j  X   Y   \   \\    C   4 E9bg_AK           /            :  f     __   ---~~~~~~SoIetedlRoodr-wpobovemoot:    -    -
J I    4                                                                                      HIGHWhAY MAINYRENANCE PROJECT CREDIT 467-BU
t  i   !   7 \   J b al,d u                     ae                           .... ~~~~~~~~.emasiEihrp Stodses
1l   l  NrrmED.w         // r~~ ~~~~ ENGINEERiNG CREDIT $11-RU
g      l      Ud   iW  R RtQ Jr-,,-                    gry                                 Roods. TrodUtaigRes7
430 ~ ~   ~      ~           ~     )                                                                             RI   Scoondory Roads tRoutes dlneretOenorol)
$           ;  T2 KS3OWD                       e                          +    Ftee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onanlonal ASirport
4             /                    r      lo   0 20    30    sD           -->r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Povrnc,aI Roundorlesm_
'    Y,OOFTFRS                           In-- tnrrntionol Boordor,es             ms
t / 5wwSmN 5 52he D te m s mL W mm p0!.,  4,    AgoimeWr,    ,W,.0 , ~4,,   D4  _*~
j                                                    0000      I-OSXAT4!WL hrMWt D*ewralNWosMSnv>W{hsw*>udo           .
=       ;                            S           29Zw                  Svee*sswwwwW     .3'10    






I B R 0 15268
30                                                               /
I    u    o    A    N    B    A             ~~~~Torma                                                         B URUN   DI
t  0   /-                 ~~~~U  G   A  N  D a                                                                                                             0 sfrsh1s
-l             itKAMPALA                                                                     Eldrat                        INTERNATIONAL   SURFACE  TRANSPORT
asese   - T   G                                                                                                        j 2|/35! |Dissace sn ki kometers
-       Paved roads
/                                              _____ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Earth roads
/   Mb                   Mas6~~~a~7?/1 '                                                                                  --- Pavd roads under study
<.                      X             \9  9tun~~~~        ~~~g-m ,_  !I   2e           :                                      K VE    N    Y    A                 =        R..Iw.ys
\   (  rl;3/ .  y   ---3; _ ...........  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~......... W,te-wy
Rutshur.      ble     K   -ic t r                                a .         N N.                                                                National cpitals
Ourengltti   v';tuta  *)*S          12 Bookobo                                                                                            0 MEnig       ,- NAIROEI  0   Cites at towns
Bui<BJ RWA NDA  I   i                                   '         -            1         t           .                      iS'>U
U N
X Uvirofl B.kw 5^uo,,be  /10x 2
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rno    /                                                                                     NoSig}  N.                                                                 @  1  ,   .
\    |iKlg...i 
>  0  \ 1i t                           _  _               ,4 T  A   N   Z % ~~~~~~~                                           ~           ~~~~A   N   I  A  <n e:g5
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CX    A /VE
t~ ~ ~ ~~aku   _                        2    *Z5'\    ails    /                                                                                                        i> Mog    /1 t)  N./A
RuobsKyn          - N        g--    \      '-'tt '-Qs
\  9  \  \                                                            \                bS                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEi SALAAM
A F e if c A s  '   rz    e   ra    MBRA otego    *.,g5'                Buisoobe                                   0 
RrPURtI~~ ~~~~ ~                                                   )-iE                                        E   ,' \  o  ov                                                 i 
I  I R E~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I   iam
Z  IE E umu2 BRUDI<X             >      __   _CbA                            \   w           KILOMETERS o         ID0          200          300          400 
Z        A     M9af9a4P4v B5 T A N ZTAE T I AN                        Z     A       N     Ia
NAMULIA >-p Z   IM2ARWE  4   ,o/   ! A N



