      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020196


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P103457                                         ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                               Additional Financing
                                                 Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global        P125648,P146069
 Indonesia
                                                 Practice



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-15476,TF-90014,TF-98863,TF-98869                   30-Nov-2014                                                             72,500,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  22-Feb-2011                                           30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                      0.00                                                61,500,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                       0.00                                                61,500,000.00

  Actual                                                                   0.00                                                76,480,496.92




 Sector(s)
 Housing construction(80%):Other social services(20%)

 Theme(s)
 Natural disaster management(100%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Houqi Hong                          J. W. van Holst Pellekaan          Christopher David Nelson            IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components

a. Objectives
    The project development objective (PDO) stated in the Grant Agreement (GA) for the Indonesia: Community-Based Settlement Rehabilitation
    and Reconstruction Project for Central and West Java and Yogyakarta Special Region (CSRRP) was “to assist in meeting the needs of
    Eligible Households for earthquake-resistant housing and community infrastructure in the Affected Areas” (Schedule 1). Affected Areas here
    were defined as West and Central Java and Yogyakarta where a series of seismic disasters had caused widespread damage before the
    project, while Eligible Households were defined as households identified according to the Project Operational Manual as eligible to share in
    the benefits of the housing reconstruction grants to be provided by the project.
    The Project Appraisal Report (PAD) stated that the PDO was “to meet the needs of targeted households for (a) seismic resistant housing,
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



     and (b) community infrastructure in selected disaster affected villages in Central and West Java and Yogyakarta.”
     The project received two additional financings from the Java Reconstruction Fund (JRF, TF-90014)), the same fund that provided the original
     financing for the project. It also received two more additional financings from the National Community Empowerment Program (PNPM)
     Support Facility (PSF, TF-98863 and TF-98869) and the Indonesia Disaster Management Fund (IDDMF, TF-15476) respectively. The PDO
     as stated in the GA was not changed during implementation.
     This review covers the original project and all the additional financings as one project, and uses the PDO stated in the GA as the benchmark
     for evaluation. The PDO in the GA is ambiguous in that it could imply that only households benefiting from housing reconstruction grants
     would benefit from community infrastructure grants. However, for the purpose of this review it is assumed that all households in the Affected
     Areas would be eligible to benefit from community infrastructure restoration.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The project had the following four components, based on Section B and Annex C of the PAD.
     A. Housing reconstruction support grants (appraisal cost: US$42.00 million; actual cost: US$37.98 million)
     Facilitate the reconstruction of housing units for vulnerable households in affected desa (villages) and keluahan (urban wards) in Central
     and West Java and Yogyakarta, based on improved seismic standards and using a community-based approach. The grants would be
     managed by the community-based organizations established under the two on-going Bank operations: KDP (Kecamatan Development
     Project) and UPP-3 (Third Urban Poverty Project).
     B. Block grants for priority infrastructure and hazard risk reduction investments (appraisal cost: US$11.00 million; actual cost:
     US$30.19 million). The substantial increase in cost compared with appraised cost was due to increased demand for investments in
     infrastructure and hazard risk reduction, financed by the additional financings as well as reallocated funds from Component A. This
     component would provide block grants to desa and keluahan for rehabilitation and reconstruction of small-scale priority infrastructure and
     related facilities identified in communities’ rehabilitation and reconstruction plans, including transitional shelters, investments necessary for
     improving community level emergency preparedness, and disaster mitigation and recovery measures. The block grant allocation would be
     based on the level of damages and on complementing the support provided through the on-going KDP and UPP systems.
     C. Community Education and Quality Assurance (appraisal cost: US$3.20 million; actual cost: US$6.77 million). The doubling of cost
     was due to increased training and capacity building for infrastructure related investments). This component would provide technical
     advisory services, through hiring of Housing Task Force teams, to (a) oversee implementation and construction quality and design, (b)
     strengthen project management capacity at the community level, and (c) train Eligible Households on technical aspects of housing design
     and construction, with a special emphasis on hazard-resistant design standards.
     D. Implementation Support (appraisal cost: US$3.80 million; actual cost: US$12.99 million). The more than three fold increase in cost
     was mainly because of increased implementation support for infrastructure related investments. This component would provide support
     for hiring one National Management Consultant team and two District Management Consultant teams to guide the work of the Housing
     Task Force teams and to support the overall project implementation and monitoring and evaluation. Provide technical advisory services to
     (a) develop and implement a public communications campaign strategy, (b) establish a Management Information System (MIS) to track
     progress, and a complaints handling mechanism, and (c) establish and implement an internal and external monitoring and evaluation
     framework.
     Additional Financing: The additional financings funded by the Java Reconstruction Fund expanded the scope of Components B, C and D
     and hence increased project costs. Key changes involved (a) provision to address needs for cultural heritage preservation, (b) support for
     livelihood programs for farmers and women in collaboration with relevant local agencies, and (c) provision of assistance to villages for the
     preparation of the Community Settlement Plans (CSPs) (ICR, Annex 2). Total project cost increased from US$61 million at appraisal to
     US$93.53 million at completion, excluding overhead (ICR, Annex 1).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     1. Project cost
     The project’s total cost was estimated at US$61 million at appraisal. Actual total project cost increased to US$93.53 million at completion,
     due to the four additional financings which increased the scope of the project. The two JRF additional financings aimed at addressing
     weaknesses in operations and maintenance, investments in disaster risk reduction, linkages between community-level planning
     processes and higher-level local government plans, and cultural heritage preservation, as well as financing the reconstruction and
  Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
  ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



rehabilitation of housing and community infrastructure destroyed by the eruptions of Mount Merapi in 2010. The PSF grant and IDDMF
additional financings (the third and fourth additional financings) were to fund additional housing grants, the development of livelihood
programs, and infrastructure and training related to disaster risk reduction, in further response to the 2010 eruption of Mount Merapi.
2. Financing
The project cost was financed by US$60 million from the original JRF grant, US$15.12 million from the two JRF additional grants,
US$11.45 million from PSF, US$1.36 million from IDDMF, and US$5.6 million to cover US$2.25 million for housing units, US$2.5 million
for land for community structures and (US$0.85 million for administrative overheads from the Government of Indonesia (GoI). The JRF
was established by six donors for the reconstruction of Central and West Java and Yogyakarta. The Bank acted as administrators of the
grant funds. The PSF was established by GoI in 2006 to harmonize development partner efforts to support the National Community
Empowerment Program (PNPM). Both the original JRF grant and the two JRF additional financings were fully disbursed. The PSF grant
was 99.6% disbursed. And the IDDMF grant was 90.7% disbursed.
3. Key dates
The project was approved on January 4, 2007. The original closing date was June 30, 2009. It was extended six times by 6 years, to
June 30, 2015, making a total implementation period of 8.5 years as compared to the originally planned 2.5 years. The reason for two
one-year extensions was the need to implement 2 additional financings which were mainly in response to the 2010 Merapi eruptions. The
reasons for the other extensions were related to the need to address design weaknesses identified during project supervision, delays in
hiring of consultants, and slow decision making of beneficiaries and reorganization of the executing agency (ICR, Section 1.7).
Effective date was April 9, 2007, three months after approval. Mid-term review was March 3, 2008, about eight months behind the
schedule set at appraisal, which was July 2007.
4. Restructurings
There were four level I restructurings and two level II restructurings.
1) Level I restructurings:
Level I restructurings comprised four additional financings:

   • Additional financing I:


November 16, 2009: additional financing of USUS$6.42 million, to address weaknesses related to O&M, linkages between Community
Settlement Plans (CSPs) and local government plans, cultural heritage preservation, and investments in disaster risk reduction.
Performance indicators were revised for the additional financing. On April 12, 2010 the Bank approved a supplementary grant of
USUS$5.2 million to mainly address higher than expected need for cultural heritage preservation. The closing date was extended by one
year to June 30, 2011.

   • Additional Financing II:


March 1, 2011: second additional financing of USUS$3.5 million, to help finance the reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing and
community infrastructure destroyed during the 2010 Merapi eruptions. The closing date was again extended by one year to June 30,
2012.

   • Additional Financing III (PSF Grant):


March 23, 2011: PSF grant of USUS$11.5 million to further respond to the 2010 Merapi volcanic eruptions, helping finance additional
housing and community infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation as well as development of livelihood programs. The closing
date was extended by one year to June 30, 2013.

   • Additional Financing IV (IDDMF Grant):


September 13, 2013: IDDMF provided a grant of USUS$1.5 million to help finance infrastructure and training related to disaster risk
reduction, additional housing grants, facilitation and project management. The closing date was extended by 17 months to November 30,
2014.
2) Level II restructurings:
December 8, 2008: reallocation of US$4.25 million from Component A to Component B, with closing date being extended by one year to
June 30, 2010, due to delays in facilitator and consultant recruitment.
November 28, 2014: Final etension of closing date for 7 months to June 30, 2015 due to delays caused by slow decision-making of
beneficiaries and reorganization of the executing agency.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)




   3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

   a. Relevance of Objectives

       The project objective was to “assist in meeting the needs of Eligible Households for earthquake-resistant housing and community
       infrastructure in the Affected Areas.” This was highly relevant to the GoI's own large-scale reconstruction program for the region at project
       approval. The program focused on housing and tertiary infrastructure reconstruction as well as quality management and community training.
       The PDO was also substantially aligned with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) covering 2003-2007, which included a large
       community-driven development (CDD) program on community-level reconstruction, infrastructure development, and service delivery. The 2006
       CAS Progress Report updated the CAS and added a new pillar on support for disaster risk management, in recognition of the high level of
       vulnerability to natural disasters in the country. The project objective was also very consistent with the Bank and the country's own strategies
       around the time of the additional financings (Country Partnership Strategy, FY09-12, Chapter III)
       The project objective also remained well linked to Bank and national strategies at completion. The Country Partnership Strategy for FY13-15
       had a very strong focus on disaster risk management and community empowerment in rural and urban areas, including through extensive
       collaboration with other multilateral development banks and bilateral donors. One of the priority programs of the GoI Master Plan for
       “Acceleration and Expansion of Indonesia’s Economic Development 2011-2025” (MP3EI) was on climate and disaster resilience. And the
       government continued to be committed to the CDD approach (CAS Progress Report, FY13-15). The relevance of the PDO is
       rated Substantial.




       Rating
       Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

        The block grants for rehabilitation and reconstruction of small-scale infrastructure and related facilities (Component B) were directly relevant
       design for quickly meeting the needs for community infrastructure in the selected affected villages. Together these two components accounted
       for 77 percent of total allocated financing (see Table 2 in the ICR).
       The other two components on community education and implementation support (Components C and D), which were expanded to
       include capacity building for district governments through the additional financings, were key for ensuring the effective implementation of the
       community-based approach and hence for the achievement of the PDO in an effective and efficient manner. Their design was consistent with
       proven successful CDD approaches, and was based on using community-based organizations already established under the on-going KDP and
       UPP-3. The project also rightly relied on local governments for implementation management and oversight.
       The intended outcomes of the project, as implied in the results framework in the PAD, focused on beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the
       reconstructed housing units and community infrastructure, as well as the actual occupancy of the housing units, while the intended intermediate
       outcomes included the number of housing units reconstructed and the share of targeted villages that had their basic community infrastructure
       restored, as well as planning and participatory process for both housing and community infrastructure.
       However, the results framework was only a listing of objectives, indicators, and targets. There were no results chains in the results framework
       and therefore it did not show how project activities would lead to intermediate and final outcomes.
       Based on the above, the relevance of design is rated Substantial.




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



    Objective 1

    Objective
     The project objective was to "assist in meeting the needs of Eligible Households for earthquake-resistant housing and community
     infrastructure in the Affected Areas." As explained in Section 2, the project objective implied two elements or sub-objectives: (1) Assist in
     meeting the needs of eligible households for earthquake-resistant housing, and (2) Assist in meeting the needs of eligible households for
     community infrastructure. A key design factor for achieving the overall objective was the community driven development (CDD) approach.

     (1) Assist in meeting the needs of eligible households for earthquake-resistant housing


    Rationale
    Output:
    The following is a summary of the project’s most important outputs for the first sub-objective:
    • 100 trained Housing Task Force teams were operational, compared with an original target of 70 (ICR Data Sheet, Section F).
    • About 95% of beneficiaries were aware of project processes for the post-earthquake reconstruction (no target) (ICR Data Sheet, Section
    F).
    • About 62% of beneficiaries were aware of project process for assistance after the Merapi eruptions (no target) (ICR Data Sheet, Section F).
    • The implementing agency resolved 100% of the 1269 complaints received during implementation and resolved 90% of them in three
    months (on target) (ICR Data Sheet, Section F and ICR, paragraph 35).
    • 17,669 seismic-resistant core housing units were completed with financing from the project (99.3% of the revised target of 17,800 units). Of
    these, 15,153 housing units were in response to the natural disasters of 2006. The original target was 18000, but this was revised down to
    15,153 in 2008 based on the needs of potential beneficiaries and the GoI’s ability to provide more financing from its own sources. The
    revision was roughly in proportion to a reallocation of funds out of the housing component to the community infrastructure component. The
    rest 2,516 housing units were for households affected by the 2010 Merapi eruption (ICR Data Sheet, Section F and ICR paragraph 42).
    • Facilitated relocation of 2,316 households from areas damaged by the 2010 Merapi eruptions to safer locations (no target) (ICR, Annex 2).
    • Facilitated the reconstruction of over 900 housing units with housing structure financed by the National Agency for Disaster Management
    (BNPB) (on target) (ICR, paragraph 42).

    Outcome:
    • Over 98% of houses constructed by the project (17,386 out of the 17,669) were occupied at project closing (target was 80%) (ICR,
    paragraph 42).
    • 95% of the 17,669 beneficiaries, both men and women, were satisfied with the rehabilitated housing. This was a weighted average based
    on two satisfaction ratios: one was 96% for the 15,153 housing units that were completed in 2008, a finding from the mid-term review. The
    other was 89% for the remaining 2,516 housing units financed through the additional financings, based on a survey conducted by UKDW (a
    local university) in 2015. The 2015 survey was based on a relatively small sample size of 104 and thus its findings may not be very reliable.
    However, based on a calculation by this Review, the weighted average satisfaction rate was quite robust to a change of the satisfaction
    rate from the 2015 survey -- a 20% reduction of the satisfaction rate from the 2015 survey would still result in a 92% weighted average
    satisfaction rate (target was 80%). This is plausible because the vast majority of the beneficiaries were surveyed by the time of the mid-term
    review (ICR, paragraph 42 and Annex 5).

    Summary:
    The project provided earthquake-resistant housing for over 17,000 households in the disaster affected areas, and the occupancy rate of
    housing units as well as the satisfaction rate of beneficiaries both exceeded the targets. The efficacy of the first sub-objective was therefore
    rated as High.




    Rating
    High

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



 2. Assist in meeting the needs of households for community infrastructure

 Rationale



  Output:
  The following is a summary of the project’s most important outputs for the second sub-objective:
  • Capacity building on O&M and project management for small-scale infrastructure projects (ICR, Annex 2).
  • Community education on emergency preparedness and preservation of cultural heritage (ICR, Annex 2).
  • Capacity building to district governments to help integrate CSPs in higher-level government plans (ICR, paragraph 42).
  • 191 villages were assisted to prepare CSPs (no target) (ICR, Annex 2).
  • The project constructed 378 km of village roads, 367 km of drains and irrigation canals, 6,574 water supply systems, 1,162 communal
  toilets, and over 490 evacuation facilities and signage in 310 villages (ICR, paragraph 44).

  Outcome:
  • Basic community infrastructure reconstructed and rehabilitated in 98% of the 310 project villages (revised target was 85%, while original
  target was 100%). Only 4 villages had not completed community infrastructure by project closing (ICR, Data Sheet, Section F).
  • 91% of beneficiaries were satisfied with the community infrastructure built under the project (target was 80%). This was a weighted
  average of the satisfaction rates from the surveys: one is 90% of beneficiaries of community infrastructure built before mid-2012, and the
  other was 95% of beneficiaries of community infrastructure built after that time (financed from PSF and IDDMF). This weighted average
  satisfaction rate could be weak for two reasons: (a) the 95% satisfaction rate was based on the 2015 survey which had a relatively
  small sample size of 104, and (b) the 95% satisfaction rate was significantly higher than the rates of satisfaction on some subcategories of
  the infrastructure built. However, the weighted average satisfaction rate was very robust to a change to the 95% satisfaction rate -- a 40%
  reduction of the 95% satisfaction rate would still result in a 84% weighted average satisfaction rate (target was 80%), based on a
  calculation conducted by this Review (ICR, paragraph 45 and Annex 5).

  Summary:
  The project assisted 306 villages (98% of the target) in the affected areas to complete the rehabilitation and reconstruction of community
  infrastructure, exceeding the project target. There is no evidence on the technical quality of the infrastructure built. However, 91% of
  beneficiaries were satisfied with the final outcome of the community infrastructure built under the project, considerably exceeding the target
  of 80%. Overall, the efficacy of the second objective is rated Substantial.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

No ERR analysis or other types of efficiency analysis were conducted in the PAD for any of the project’s components.
Efficiency of housing reconstruction component. The ICR indicated that cost savings were achieved through supporting construction of core
housing structure (frame, foundation and roof) instead of a fully completed house. However, the ICR provided no evidence on the efficiency of
the core housing unit approach. The ICR also shows that the cost per housing reconstruction grant was lower than the estimate at appraisal.
But this is not a relevant measure of efficiency. The ICR did not compare the actual level of unit cost with that of similar projects .
Efficiency of the community infrastructure component: Together with Annex 3 on economic and financial analysis, the ICR provided
evidence to show that other similar community-driven development projects were efficient. Based on this conclusion, the ICR asserted that
the community infrastructure component of this project was efficient. The ICR did not prepare an ex-post ERR calculation, nor did it provide a
comparison of actual unit costs with other similar projects. It did point out that “the cost of construction was significantly lower compared to
infrastructure provided by local government contractors” (ICR, paragraph 41), but did not elaborate or provide evidence on whether the
infrastructure costs were comparable.
Efficiency of community education and project management. As rightly indicated in the ICR, the efficiency of community education and
project management suffered from the delays in the mobilization of facilitators and consultants and weak coordination and linkages
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



among relevant agencies and entities. Indeed, only about 62% of beneficiaries were aware of project process for post-Merapi eruptions, based
on a 2015 survey (ICR Data Sheet, Section F). The levels of beneficiary’s satisfaction with the processes for the community infrastructure
component for the earlier years were mainly in the range of 60-70% as well, based on a 2009 survey (ICR, Annex 5).
Project Management Costs. Although the total cost of the project increased by 50 percent, the cost of project implementation management
and overhead almost quadrupled during the project period, from US$4.8 million at appraisal to US$18.6 million at project closing, with its share
in total project cost more than doubled, from 8% to 20% (ICR, Annex 1).
Overall, the ICR did not provide adequate evidence on the project’s efficiency. The efficiency of the project is rated Modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The CSRRP complemented the Government of Indonesia’s efforts to help communities to reconstruct and rehabilitate the serious and extensive
damage to housing and public infrastructure from a series of natural seismic disasters that hit the densely populated provinces of Central and
West Java and Yogyakarta. The project’s objective of assisting affected households to meet needs for earthquake-resistant housing and
community infrastructure was highly relevant to World Bank and Government strategies and priorities. The relevance of project’s design was
substantial. The CSRRP substantially achieved the subs-objectives of housing reconstruction and rehabilitation of
community infrastructure. However, efficiency of the project’s implementation was rated modest. The project’s overall outcome is therefore
rated Moderately Satisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The risk that the outcome of the project will not be sustained is assessed by this Review as modest. The technology used in the construction of
the housing units and infrastructure was mature but not complex. The recipients of housing grants were motivated and able to maintain their
houses, and the Government remains committed to strengthening disaster risk management. The GoI has requested the Bank to support its
mainstreaming of community-based approach into its national disaster relief and mitigation framework. The ICR stated that the maintenance of
infrastructure was not complex. Nevertheless, training for small-scale infrastructure O&M was provided by the project (ICR, page 29) and
arrangements for collection of fees for financing O&M were also made (ICR, page 20).



a.   Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



     Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
   The project design was built on experience and lessons from existing Bank disaster-relief projects that were based on a CDD design, and
   was based on harnessing existing local community capacity developed under previous Bank projects. The components sharply focused on
   the key activities necessary for addressing the needs of eligible beneficiaries. The project objectives were clear, focused, and very relevant
   to Bank and country priorities. The original design allowed for flexibility to respond to changing circumstances, in view of the uncertain
   conditions at a disaster reconstruction stage. This proved useful in facilitating the initiation of the four additional financings approved later in
   response to new demands and challenges. The M&E design used simple and measurable indicators and captured key output and outcome
   dimensions. The task team was experienced and properly diverse in terms of necessary skills and expertise to allow for preparation of
   activities with a detailed and practical design. Some weaknesses on the quality at entry included inadequate attention and measures to
   ensure the effectiveness of the Community Settlement Plan (CSP) processes, coordination among agencies and entities, and investments
   in cultural heritage preservation, and the relatively vague alignment between the project objectives and the livelihood programs. These
   issues resulted only in minor shortcomings in the achievement of the project objectives. The quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.




   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The project had a field-based multi-disciplinary supervision team, the majority of whom also involved in the preparation of the project. The
   supervision was instrumental in identifying key implementation issues and taking actions to address them, such as the problems related to
   delay of MISs and data accuracy, budget execution, consultant and facilitator recruitment, and women participation in the early
   implementation stage. With the support of the supervision team, performance in this areas improved over time. Later the supervision team
   identified some weaknesses in the design such as those related to O&M, the CSP process, and cultural heritage perseveration which led to
   reallocation of funds among components and mobilization of additional financings to address them. The Bank team was also flexible and
   responsive to GoI's request for assistance following the 2010 volcano eruptions. The Bank team did a good job in helping to identify and
   address problems in fiduciary compliance, resulting in the project's eventual good performance on financial management, governance, and
   procurement. Admittedly, despite intensive supervision, the project continued to need support from the Bank team on many of these and
   other issues. And the Bank team should have taken actions to formally updating M&E targets and indicators to reflect expanded scope and
   activities due to the additional financings. Nevertheless, these were relatively minor issues and the overall quality of supervision was
   therefore rated Satisfactory.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government of Indonesia was highly committed to the project. During preparation the highest level of Government helped move the
   project forward, which proved extremely useful given the need to respond to the reconstruction demand quickly. To coordinate the
   provincial and district governments, NGOs, and development partners to ensure that efforts would not be duplicated, GoI established a
   platform -- National Technical Team -- to support the project's relevant processes. The platform operated very effectively. GoI was also
   instrumental in making timely request for additional grants. GoI's performance on safeguards and fiduciary arrangements
   and compliance was satisfactory. However, GoI could have done more to prevent and address the delays in budget execution and the
   issues of coordination between the implementing agency (The Ministry of Public Works and Housing) and the Ministry of Trade in the
   implementation of the livelihood programs..
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)




   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH) was the implementing agency for CSRRP. It's support was crucial in completing the
   project preparation within six months, one of the shortest for projects of similar scale in Indonesia, to ensure a timely response to the
   disasters. MPWH was very supportive of the adoption of a community-based approach in the project as well as the set up of
   a comprehensive M&E system to maintain transparency of the outcome. It acted in a timely manner to help make changes in
   implementation arrangements and resolve implementation issues. It responded to and addressed swiftly complaints on misuse of funds.
   According to the ICR its team was adaptive and willing to tackle new challenges, and responded to unexpected events quickly and
   proactively, such as expanding project scope to include areas and villages affected by the tsunami and volcano eruptions, to address the
   need for relocation of some households and for preservation of cultural assets, and to address local government additional requests
   (paragraph 65). MPWH could have performed better to speed up consultant recruitment, grant disbursement, and appointment of project
   managers. However, according to the ICR these issues did not affect the project's overall outcome significantly.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The results indicators in the results framework were simple, clear, measurable, and attributable, representing a sufficient measure of the
   results chain of the project, although there were some duplication among some indicators. The additional financings used different sets of
   key indicators for their own reporting but did not change the results framework of the project. However, there was no indicators designed
   to measure the results from the livelihood programs and some other key activities added in the additional financings.
   The M&E arrangements included a combination of independent surveys/evaluations and a computerized MIS serving as a key tool for the
   internal monitoring system. The MIS was designed to collect comprehensive information on input, output, outcome, and processes of the
   project. Baseline survey at project start and re-surveys at mid-term review and at completion were planned. Progress reports for each
   village would be prepared by the facilitators and reviewed by District Management Consultants before they would be entered into the MIS
   and submitted to the National Management Consultants. These NMCs would review these progress reports and conduct spot field
   checks and then prepare a consolidated report for the PMU as well as relevant government agencies and the Bank. The data in the MIS
   would be published in project websites, on which a complaints handing system was also established.




b. M&E Implementation
   There were some delays in the MIS establishment and consultants mobilization due to some slow processes in the implementing agency.
   Also, there were some data quality issues at the early stage of project implementation. Most of these issues were addressed over time, and
   outputs of the MIS were put in the project's two websites and updated weekly or monthly. It is uncertain, however, whether all the key data
   planned for collection according to the results framework were collected systematically. For example, the ICR did not report any data on the
   intermediate results for the community infrastructure component specified the PADs results framework. Four independent
   surveys/evaluations, including the mid-term review, were conducted. Sample size was large for the mid-term review (about 1000
   beneficiaries) but was relative small for the 2015 survey at project completion (about 100 beneficiaries) and unclear for some others (ICR,
   Annex 5). No information is available to allow for assessing the methodology and sampling techniques of these surveys.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)




c. M&E Utilization
   According to the ICR, the M&E results were very helpful for the project team to identify and take actions to address a series of important
   project implementation issues, such as coordination concerning the CSP processes, O&M for community infrastructure, cultural heritage
   preservation, and greater demand for community infrastructure and disaster preparedness investment than estimates at appraisal (ICR,
   paragraph 33). The M&E arrangements also served as an important tool for ensuring transparency and public confidence in the openness
   and fairness of the project On the other hand the complaints handling system had some limitations due to Government’s preference
   over verbal registration of complaints.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The CSRRP was classified as a “Category B” project and triggered safeguards policies on environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01),
   cultural property (OP/BP 4.11, previously known as OPN 11.03), and involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The ICR reported that social
   and environmental impacts of the projects were small or negligible given the small size of relevant activities and the fact that investments in
   community infrastructure actually generates substantial social and environmental benefits. The ICR reported that compliance with all three
   safeguard policies was satisfactory throughout the project implementation process. While pointing out that proactive actions were taken to
   address cultural heritage preservation, an issue identified during implementation, the ICR stopped short of discussing in more detail how the
   project managed to achieve a satisfactory compliance with cultural property (OP/BP 4.11) given that the project's efforts on cultural heritage
   preservation, in the form of investment in infrastructure to attract tourists, did not perform well as expected. For example, the infrastructure
   investment did not result in substantial income-generating activities as foreseen in the project’s design.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management
   The project initially had some problems in compliance with financial management guidelines, especially in areas related to dissemination of
   financial reports and safekeeping of cash balances. There were also some early delays in central government budget execution. These
   issues were resolved over time, with final compliance being satisfactory in all years except 2007, the first year of the project implementation
   period (ICR, paragraph 35).
   Procurement
   Community procurement went well. Procurement of consultants experienced some delays in mobilization of consultants and facilitators, due
   to delayed release of budget by the Government. This was mitigated by temporary allocation of consultants and facilitators from the ongoing
   UPP and KDP projects to CSRRP. Overall, the project procurement complied with the Bank's guidelines (ICR, paragraph 35).
   Governance
   The complaints handling system established under the project was effective in helping combating corruptions. The project received 1269
   complaints through the system, all of which were revolved at project closing. Twelve cases were about misuse of funds totaling the
   equivalent of about US$25,800 Most of these funds were recovered by the time of writing the ICR.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   At the project closing, the GoI's national agency for disaster management (BNPB) had adopted the project design features for some other
   post-disaster response operations in Indonesia, such as using Government's own funds to hire consultants and facilitators to help
   affected communities to prepare CSPs, and working directly with affected communities through local governments in preventing affected
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



     households from returning to no-go zones.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                  Efficiency rating was
                                                                                                                  downgraded to Modest due to
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                       Moderately Satisfactory              insufficient evidence. In addition
                                                                                                                  the project management costs
                                                                                                                  quadrupled.
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Modest                               ---
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                          ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

 The ICR provided a list of 6 lessons, based on which this review highlights the following:
1. Existing CDD capacity can be quickly mobilized to launch an effective post-disaster reconstruction project. CSRRP was built on the
on-going successful Bank CDD projects in the project areas. This allowed for a fast mobilization of communities and initialization of the
reconstruction program, owing to the availability of skilled candidates for consultants and facilitators and the motivation and capacity of
communities and local governments. To be effective in implementing community infrastructure and basic investment programs, however, the
coordination on processes between the communities and local governments and among government agencies themselves are crucial.
2. Post-disaster reconstruction projects should take account of the needs for the recovery of livelihoods for affected communities..
Basic investments in livelihood programs can be aligned with and complementary to efforts to help reconstruct housing and community
infrastructure after disasters. It is especially relevant for reconstruction after a disaster where the affected people need to be relocated to safer
sites and are thus more likely to lose their livelihoods, as in a case of the Merapi volcano eruption.
3. Community Settlement Plans (CSPs) can be used for supporting community-based planning at the local government level. The
project initially encountered some issues on the coordination between the CSP processes and local government plans. The first additional
financing addressed this by providing more proactive support on training and capacity building in this area, including capacity building for local
governments. Now CSPs have evolved into a medium-term planning tool of local governments in Indonesia. They are used as a reference in
government's annual planning meetings, for example. To be sustainable, local governments need to facilitate and support the CSP processes at
the village level.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ID-Comm. Based Settlement Rehab. (Yogya)(P103457)



15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR was thoughtful, comprehensive, and largely consistent with the OPCS guidelines. It made an effort to cover the main evaluation
needs, and was generally well written. It would though benefit from further strengthening along the following lines: (a) Provide proper
evidence and analysis to assess the efficiency of the project. Especially, provide sufficient evidence for a value-for-money assessment.(b) In
the efficacy assessment for the second objective (to meet the needs for community infrastructure), discuss the credibility of the data from the
surveys, the extent to which the CDD processes helped ensure the quality of the infrastructure built, and the performance of several
key activities added during the additional financings and the significance of its effect on affecting the achievement of the project's second
objective. (c) Provide more background and explanation concerning some key issues such as the justification for the reallocation of funds
from Components A to B (which resulted in of the lowering of a key outcome target), the costs and performance of the livelihood programs,
infrastructure for cultural heritage preservation and disaster preparedness support, and the nature of the coordination problems between
CSPs and local governments and among central government agencies. And (d) Improve data consistencies between the Data Sheet,
Annexes and the main text, improve references to sources of key data such as the satisfaction rates for the community infrastructure, and
provide more information on the methodology for surveys described in Annex 5.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
