Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rqmt Nh. P-3683-IN
REPORTI AMD    UIEIWION
OF THE
PRESET OF THE
INTERNATIONL DEVEOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIV  nIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
In AI AMN OF SDR 25.6 MILLON
TO NDMIA
FOR THE
SOCIAL FORESTRY PRTECT
November 21, 1983
This dommmhina    I I iikIbmiud mdimy be  d byecdbmlyi In         ihupindu..o
rw fii  amIt=    o sdw__w_ebeddosd ideWw  BkauwS



-ii-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 18, 1983)
US$1.00      -  Rs 10.412441
Rs 1.00      8 US$0.0960389
Rs 1 m4llion - US$96,039
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 9.75,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCr    -       Chief Conservator of Forests
DCF    -       Divisional Conservator of Forests
DDC    -       District Development Council
GOI   -        Government of India
GOK   -        Government of Karnataka
ICB   -        International Competitive Bidding
KSFD   -       Karnataka State Forest Department
LCB    -       Local Competitive Bidding
ODA   -        Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom
SFAC   -       Social Forestry Advisory Committee
SFPWG  -       Social Forestry Project Working Group
SFW    -       Social Forestry Wing
TDB    -       Taluk Development Board
TLFC  -        Taluka Level Forestry Committee



-iii-              FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM&R.Y
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             Government of Karnataka (GOK).
Amount:                  SDR 25.6 million (US$27 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
On-lending Terms:        From the Government of India (GOI) to the Government
of Karnataka as part of Central assistance for State
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:    The project would increase supplies of fuelwood
through the establishment of about 150,000 ha of
plantations, and also provide small timber for
construction, fodder for livestock, bamboo for cot-
tage industry and other minor forest and agricultural
products. It would strengthen institutional
capabilities through provision for additional
forestry staff and training of existing personnel;
improvement of silviculture research and forestry
extension; and additional housing, vehicles and
equipment. A wood balance study and a number of
other short-term studies would be carried out.
Potential project risks include firstly, the limited
capabilities of the implementing agency, which could
constrain project implementation. The risk would be
minlmized by provision for adequate incremental
staff, early recruitment of senior professional
personnel, and the use of field staff from other
relevent agencies. Secondly, limiting free distribu-
tion of seedlings to 650 seedlings per family, could
adversely affect planting by private farmers.
However, the financial rates of return of farm
forestry are sufficiently high to offset any price
disincentives. Moreover, the issue would be kept
under constant review by GOK and IDA supervision
missions. Thirdly, the high mortality rate of plants
poses a risk that the projected yield-.levels might
not be attained. However, this has been taken into
account in estimating the project's benefits and
estimated yield levels are below the potential
yields.
Thb documut ha  *nstiNed      aWmlanuY be umd bsy xients onlyintheperformanceo
tb oJdrKlcddube Its ontents sY Goto&erwUe bedbJOsedithout Word Bank authonfot



-iv-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Project Organization                                    Foreign        Total
Incremental Staff                          8.54            -            8.54
Operating Costs                            1.91            .28          2.19
VehicLes and Equipment                     2.17            .67          2.84
Civil Works                                2.53            .09          2.62
Sub-total                            15.15           1.04         16.19
Plantation
Gomal Land                                 6.18            .21          6.39
C and D Land                               2.65            .24          2.89
Tank Foreshores                             .70            .03           .73
Tribal Bamboo                               .10            -             .10
Roadside (dry zone)                         .47            .02           .49
Roadside (wet zone)                         .11            -             .11
Canal Bank                                  .35            .01           .36
Farm Forestry                             17.54            .90         18.44
Sub-total                            28.10          1.41          29.51
Training
In-Country Training                         .60            -             .60
Foreign Fellowships                         -              .19           .19
Sub-total                              .60            .19           .79
Research and Studies                        .07           -              .07
Sub-total                            43.85          2.64          46.49
Physical Contingencies                   2.42            .16          2.58
Price Contingencies                      6.96            .57          7.53
Sub-total                             9.38            .73         10.11
Total Project Cost a/                     53.23           3.37         56.60
Financing Plan:                                      (US$ millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
IDA                25.1            1.9           27.0
ODA (UK)           21.5            1.5           23.0
GOI/GOK             6.6             -             6.6
Total              53.2            3.4           56.6
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$1.1 million or 2X of total project cost.



Estimated Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IDA FY       FY84    FY85    FY56    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Annual        1.4      1.4     7.9     8.3    4.7    2.4    0.9
Cumulative    1.4      2.8    10.7    19.0   23.7   26.1   27.0
Rate of Return:  The ERR is 22%
Appraisal Report: No. 4590-IN, dated November 18, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to India for SDR 25.6 million (US$27.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, to help finance a social forestry project in order to increase supplies
of fuelwood to rural and semi-urban areas in the State of Karnataka. The
proceeds of the credit would be channelled to the Government of Karnataka in
accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for
financing State development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by the
Government of India. The Overseas Development Administration is also expected
to provide a grant of US$23 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.     An economic report, 'Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues' (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950/51 - has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0Z per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 602 to just under 40X, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25Z. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.     Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President-s Report for the Orissa Irrigation II Project (No.
P-3612-IN), dated June 9, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8X of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5Z of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 202 was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3X of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2Z per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.32. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India-s terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India-s exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.     Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9Z and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better In 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation.  Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5X-6.5Z in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops aiso declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain conr
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily



-4-
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most lmprove-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develor
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in 'other'
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India-s adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers- and export credits. India-s favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted



-5-
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
vere met by increased nonrconcessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10X increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tranr-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been



-6-
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45Z now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33Z of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7Z of GDP by the late 19809, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmalageable terms. The Goverument's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous



-7-
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure.  The
fact that India has been able over the past seven yearn to inaintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and conr
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easlng
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 mlllion, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
nonr-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural    duction, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India-s poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Grcr.p has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has beer. repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objertives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develhp-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the a',ility
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to Indias adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers-
fields. Iu addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India-s efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
listribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expanr-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India-s poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India rema-as small in relation to India-s needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and Improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India-s external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the exterral assistance received by India, the proportion conr-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India-s outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - FORESTRY IN INDIA AND KARNATAKA
29.     India-s forest lands -- about 75 million hectares -- cover 23% of
the total land area. However, excessive pressures of human and cattle
popuilations on forest lands have resulted in rapid depletion and degredation
of much of the natural forests. Nonr-commercial energy sources, including
fuelwood, agricultural wastes and animal dung, account for about 40Z of the
total, 80% of the rural and 50% of the urban household-s energy consumption.
Almost 55X of the nonrcommercial energy is obtained from fuelvood, mostly in
primary form. About 20% of available manpower in farming families is spent
in fuelwood collection. Existing planting programs, of about 100,000 ha
annually, are inadequate for meeting the demand for fuelwood. It is
estimated that annual plantings of at least 300,000 ha over the next two
development plan periods (1986 to 1995), would be required to meet the
projected shortfall.
GOI Policies and Social Forestry Programs
30.     The Government has concluded that firstly, the tradicional develop-
ment and managemenc of forestry resources would not be adequate to meet the
country's basic needs for forestry products; and secondly, development of
forest resources outside the traditional reserve forests through active
participation of local communities is requircd in order to overcome the
shortage of fuelwood, fodder and small timber. The country-s Fifth (1974-79)
and Sixth (1980-85) Plans reflected the concern by allocating 49Z and 78Z of
total forestry sector allocations respectively, and 46Z and 70Z of total
forest planting respectively, to social forestry.
31.     GOI has increab5ngly mobilized domestic and external resources for
implementing a national rural afforestation program, and State Governments
are being assisted to implement the program, which now is underway in
100 districts.  GOI is also providing assistance for social forestry planta-
tions established under various programs including the National Employment,
Minimum Needs and Drought Prone Areas Programs. In addition, State wide
projects are being implemented with external assistance in a number of
States.
Bank Group Role In Social Forestry
32.     The Bank Group as well as other donors have supported India-s overall
strategy for forestry development, particularly the social forestry programs.
The Bank Group-s first project, the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 609-IN, December 1975) was, however, directed
primarily towards the development of plantation for the pulp and paper
industry. Since then the main thrust of Bank Group operations in this sector
has been for social forestry development. So far, four such projects have
been approved: the Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project (Credit 925-IN;
US$23 million; June 1979); the Gujarat Community Forestry Project
(Credit 961-IN; US$37 million; December 1979); the West Bengal Social
Forestry Project (Credit 1178-IN; US$29 million; October 1981) and the Jammu
and Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project (Credit 1286-IN;



-11-
US$33 million; August 1982). The proposed project would be the fifth Bank
Group operation in this sector. In addition, the Kandi Watershed and Area
Development Project (Loan 1897-IN; US$30 million; July 1980) and the
Himalayan Watershed Management Project (Loan 2295-IN; US$46.2 million; June
1983) also include substantial components for reforestation and pasture
development. The recent mid-term review of the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat
projects, and the supervision of the West Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir and
Haryana projects show that overall progress in tree planting under those
programs has been very satisfactory despite staffing shortages and high plant
mortalities in the early stages of project implementation. Tree planting has
exceeded appraisal ectimates except in self-help village wood lots developr
ment schemes which has proceeded slower than anticipated. Experience to date
indicates that given sufficient resources, State Forestry Departments are
able to successfully implement substantial rural afforestation programs.
The State of Karnataka
33.     The State of Karnataka, situated in South West India with an area of
about 192,000 km2 (19.2 million ha) and a population of about 37 million, is
one of the fastest growing States of the Union. About 71% of the population
resides in the rural areas. The labor force constitutes about 35% of
Karnataka-s population, and almost 3.6 million people or about 14% of the
total rural population, are landless laborers. The agricultural sector
(including crops, forestry and livestock) accounts for about 50% of the
StateCs GDP. Average per capita income is about Rs 750 per year, and nearly
70% of the rural population is living at or below the poverty threshold,
estimated at Rs 780 per capita per annum for rural India.
34.     Agro-climatic Conditions.  Most of the State lies on a plateau.
Average rainfall is about 1,350mm. There are considerable variations in the
amount and distribution of monsoon rains, and as many as 135 out of 175
taluks (an administrative subdivision of a district) are classified as
'drought prone". In the northern/north-eastern districts, rainfall in any
particular year may deviate from normal by about 30Z-40Z. Deviations by more
than 30% cause large scale failures in plantations.
35.     Land Tenure Classification and Utilization.  Land is owned either by
the State or private individuals and/or organizations. Surplus
Government-owned land can be granted to individuals or groups for specific
purposes. However, the Chief Revenue Officer can authorize a change in land
use.  Of the uncultivable and fallow lands (4.2 million ha) about 1.4 million
ha are cultivable wastes (categorized as A and B class lands) and about
2.8 million ha are barren noncultivable lands (categorized as C and D class
lands). Most of Government A and B class lands have been made available to
villagers for common use as grazing grounds (known as gomal or peramboke
lands).  With appropriate land development and soil works, some of the uncul-
tivable wastes (C and D class lands) are suitable for tree growing. About
3.2 million ha, 16% of the State-s land surface, are under forests (the all
India average is 23%, and the National policy is to maintain 33% of the total
geographical area under forests).
Rural Institutions Supporting Forestry Development
36.     There is a three tier system of corporate bodies:  (i) village
panchayats, which are bodies elected 'y all adult members residing in the



-12-
village or group of villages (there are 8249 panchayats); (ii) Taluk
Development Boards (TDB) at the intermediate level, comprising directly
elected, co-opted and ex-officio members; and (iii) the District Development
Council (DDC) which constitutes the apex of the system. The Village
Panchayats, TDBs and DDCs perform a wide range of functions including plant-
ing and preservation of trees, maintenance of grazing and forestry lands, and
maintenance and management of forests adjacent to the village.
Forestry in Karnataka
37.    About 752 of the State's forests are classified as reserved forests,
10% as district (protected) forests, 1% as village and private forests and
the remaining 14% is unclassified. About 50% of the total growing stock
(216 million m3) is in the high rainfall, evergreen and semi-evergreen
forests, 26% in the moist deciduous and 17% in dry deciduous forests. The
remaining 7% comprise scrub and thorny bushes in the eastern and north-
eastern dry zones of the State. The Karnataka State Forestry
Department (KSFD) began a modest program of social forestry planting in
1979/80, and since then GOK has spent about Rs 81 million, and about
Rs 121 million has been allocated for the 1983-84 program. To date there has
been very little participation by local people and communities, and program
implementation is ad hoc.
38.     Total recorded production of round wood, sawn lumber, poles and other
construction timber and firewood amounts to 2.5 million m3 per year, of which
about 1.4 million m3 is firewood. In addition, the State produces about
1.4 million tons of bamboo. However, the shortage of fuelwood and small
timber is growing, especially in semi-urban and rural areas and the drier
districts. Annual availability of fuelwood is only 60% of the total
requirements. Fodder availability is estimated at about 5 million tons of
dry matter which is sufficient only to maintain the existing livestock at
survival levels.
39.     GOK Objectives and Policies.  To overcome the forest products
deficit, GOK aims at planting about 95,000 ha per year. To achieve this
objective, the Government is mobilizing the State's own resources for planta-
tion development, enforcing the 1976 Tree Preservation Act, increasing
afforestation on public lands, accelerating afforestation in drought prone
areas and providing incentives to private individuals for planting trees.
The proposed allocation of Rs 160 million to the forestry sector in the Sixth
Five Year Plan reflects a sulstantial increase over allocations of the pre-
vious Plan periods of Rs 10.5 million, Rs 40 million, Rs 50.2 million and
Rs 70.2 million in the Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Plan periods,
respectively.
Forestry Institutions
40.     The Karnataka State Forestry Department (KSFD) is an entity within
the Department of Agriculture and Cooperatives which has overall responr
sibility for forestry activities in the State. KSFD has two operational
wings, General and Development, each headed by a Chief Conservator of
Forests (CCF). The General Wing is responsible for all traditional forest
management and the Development Wing, established in 1981, is mainly respon-
sible for working plan development, research, wildlife preservation, surveys,
demarcation of State forests and other revenue lands transferred to KSFD for



-13-
afforestation, and more importantly, the implementation of social forestry
programs. There are seven territorial circles each headed by a Conservator
of Forests, and 35 Forest Divisions, each headed by a Divisional Conservator
of Forests (DCF). Within each Division are Range Offices, headed by Range
Forest Officers. There are 466 Range Forest Officers In the State.
41.     Extension.  KSFD's structure, staffing pattern, training and orienta-
tion are based on the concept of traditional forest management, focussing on
protection. Hence, it is not geared towards providing extension and advisory
services to individuals. However, it would aot be necessary for KSFD to
establish a separate extension service, because the necessary technical
information can be conveyed by a core of trained field staff of the KSFD,
supplemented by extension staff available from other relevant departments
like livestock, agriculture and rural development and even non-governmental
agencies (para 63).
42.     Silviculture Research and Training.  The State has a generally ade-
quate research infrastructure. However, there is need for a program narrowly
focussed on the problems of social forestry, and for more effective liaison
between KSFD and other State and regional forestry research institutions
(para 57). GOK has its own training school for foresters and facilities for
training of forest guards.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.     The project was prepared by the Government of Karnataka.  It was
appraised by a Bank mission which visited India in January/February 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in October 1983. The Governments
of India and Karnataka were represented by a delegation coordinated by
Kr. N. Misra, Director of the Government of Indias Department of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4590-IN) is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Rationale
44.     A severe disparity between supply and demand of primary forest
products, especially fuelwood, building poles, small timber and fodder, is
creating social, economic and ecological problems. An average rural family
spends about 36X of its daily labor and almost 12Z of its daily calories on
firewood collection, which is substantially more than what it is able to
spend on agricultural activities. The Governments of India and Karnataka
have made a laudible effort to overcome the problem. However, the scope,
content and intensity of the programs fall short of development needs of the
subsector. Consequently, assistance is needed in order to (i) adequately
expand resource availability to a minimum critical level as quickly as
possible; (ii) create adequate institutional capabilities to support the
programs; (iii) strengthen research, training and extension activities in
order to mike them responsive to the requirements of implementing the
program; and (iv) create conditions which would invoke support and participa-



-14-
tion by expected beneficiaries. The proposed project is designed to address
these needs.
Project Objectives and Description
45.     The project's primary objective would be, over a five year period, to
increase supplies of fuelwood to rural and semi-urban areas through the
establishment of about 150,000 ha of plantations to be located throughout the
State. Secondary objectives would be to provide small timber, livestock
fodder, fruits, bamboo for the cottage industry and other minor forest and
agricultural products. Priority for tree planting would be in the districts
which have at least two of the following conditions: mean annual rainfall
below 800mm; designated forest area less than 15% of the total geographic
area; and more than nine persons per hectare of presently designated forest
area. Within such districts, the following additional criteria would also be
used to determine priorities: (i) only land with minimal agricultural poten-
tial would be planted with trees; (ii) shift in land use away from subsis-
tence crop would be discouraged; (iii) emphasis would be on encouraging
communal participation and creating employment for the rural poor;
(iv) project output would be first made available to meet the needs of the
area in which development takes place; and (v) development costs would be
recovered where possible. On the above basis, there would be 13 priority
districts with a total population of 20 million. In order to execute the
program, the project would provide funds for additional vehicles, housing,
equipment and forestry staff, and training, and improvement of silvicultural
research and studies and forestry extension activities.
Plantation Activities
46.     Farm Forestry (120,000 ha -  80% of Total Planting Program under the
Project). The project would provide funds for establishing of 120,000 ha of
forestry on private farm land through development of additional nurseries,
distribution of planting materials and provision of advisory services. For
this purpose KSFD would raise and distribute 600 million seedlings of
fuelwood, small timber, poles and fruit tree and various species of fodder
for planting by private individuals -- with priority given to small and
marginal farmers. The seedlings would be raised primarily in KSFD nurseries,
however, incentives would be given for the development of nurseries by
private individuals and local institutions such as schools and cooperatives.
Under the project, the preseat policy of unlimited free distribution of
seedlings would be amended so that in the 1984/85 planting season, only 1500
seedlings per farm family would be distributed free of charge, and from the
1985/86 planting season, only 750 seedlings per farm family would be given
free of charge. This is the estimated number of trees required to meet the
domestic needs for fuelwood and fodder of an average family. Seedlings above
the 750 free limit would be charged at the actual financial cost of produc-
tion (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2.5). However, germinated seedlings
in bags would be supplied free of charge. Individual farmers would meet
planting and maintenance costs.
47.     Plantations on Gomal lands (15,000 ha -  10% of Total Planting
Program under the Project).  The project would finance the planting, mainr
tenance and protection costs of 15,000 ha, representing 25% of the available
60,000 ha of gomal lands. It has been agreed that Karnataka would ensure
that: (a) the establishment of the plantations would not adversely affect



-15-
grazing and aggregate fodder availability from gomal lands (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2.1a); (b) the identification of goinal land and species
to be planted would be done in consultation with the respective panchayats,
Taluka Level Forestry Committees (TLFCs) and concerned villagers (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2.1b); and (c) once agreement had been reached,
the Deputy Commissioner would authorize plantations on the lands identified
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2.2).
48.     Plantation on C&D Class Lands (5,000 ha -  3% of Total Planting
Program under the Project).  About 5,000 ha of C&D class lands, out of the
300,000 ha transferred to the KSFD for management, control and afforestation,
would be planted with fodder, fruit, fuelwood, wood for small timber and
bamboo. Planting, maintenance and protection costs would be borne by KSFD.
Where possible all or portions of such plantations would be earmarked for
maintenance and protection by the poor sections of the community in return
for a specified share of produce.
49.     Strip Plantations on Roadsides (3,000 ha -  2% of  Total Planting
Program under the Project). Avenue planting of about 2500 trees/ha would be
established in areas with less than 650mm of annual rainfall. Permanent,
hardy and drought tolerant species which have value as ornamental, shade,
fuel timber and fruit trees would be planted. About 420 km of roadsides
equivalent to about 500 ha, would be planted with a mixture of fast-growing
fuelwood species and permanent fruit and avenue trees in areas where the
annual rainfall is between 650-1000mm. Establishment and maintenance would
be by KSFD.
50.     Plantations on Tank Foreshores and Upper Reaches of Derelict Tanks:
(3,000 ha -- 2% of Total Planting Program under the Project).  The project
would finance plantation of 3,000 ha out of the existing 40,000 ha of tank
foreshores and upper reaches of derelict tank beds. Establishment of the
plantations would be the responsibility of the KSFD. Later management
including usage, shall be governed by an agreement between KSFD and village
panchayats (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2.3).
51.     Plantations on Canal Banks (1,000 ha -  0.7Z of Total Planting
Program under the Project). The project would plant trees on 1,000 ha along
800-900 km length of canal banks out of a total length of 4500 km. KSFD
would bear all plantaticn, maintenance and protection cost for the intitial
three years. Thereafter, the Irrigation Department and the local people
would be responsible for maintenance and protection. Site selection design
and plantation techniques would be determined after consultation with the
Irrigation Department.
52.     Bamboo Plantation for Tribal People (2000 ha -  1.3X of Total
Planting Program under the Project). The project would plant about 2000 ha
of bamboo in the forest reserves. Tribal people living in the vicinity of
the selected areas would be employed for planting, maintenance, and
harvesting, and would utilize the produce, although all costs for plantation
establishment would be borne by KSFD. GOK has submitted to and IDA has
approved a detailed plan for implementing the bamboo plantation program.
53.     Overall, 95% of the species planted would produce fuelwood and small
timber, poles, softwood and leaf fodder.  Wherever possible, plantations
would be undersown with herbaceous legumes and grasses. Land and site



-16-
preparation would be primarily by manual labor. Use of heavy machinery would
be minimal and limited only to hard compacted soll and lateritic areas
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2.6).
Implementation Assistance to KSFD
54.     Incremental Staff and Staff Development.  The project would finance
7,382 man-years of full time incremental staff for establishment of a Social
Forestry Wing (SFW), and 12,000 man-years of part-time motivators. All staff
on first appointment or on transfer to SFW, would be given orientation cour-
ses with particular emphasis on farm forestry and extension.  This would be
followed by short duration inrservice training within or outside the State,
as well as outside the country, as required.
55.     Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture.  The SFW would be provided with
earthmoving equipment, transport vehicles, tractors, together with
appropriate farm and office equipment for carrying out the project, and funds
for operating and maintaining such vehicles and equipment. In addition,
furniture would be provided for offices and traiuing centers.
56.     Civil Works.  The project would provide funds for constructing a
training center at Dharwad including dormitories and expansion of existing
facilities. In addition, residential housing for senior professional staff
and for Range Forest Officers, Foresters and Forest Extension Workers would
be constructed to standard Public Works Department design and specifications.
Seed testing laboratories, storages, pumphouses, garages would also be
constructed.
57.     Research. Studies and Consultancies.  Funds would be provided for
consultants to undertake social forestry related research (silvicultural, as
well as socio-economic). KSFD, assisted by the Forestry Research Institute
and other relevant Institutions would, by June 30, 1984, review its current
social forestry research program, and prepare a detailed program for
implementation under the project (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
Funds would also be provided for hiring consultants to conduct a wood-balance
study and to assist KSFD in monitoring and evaluation of the project. KSFD
has finalized the terms of reference for the wood balance study in consult-
ation with IDA, and consultants with qualifications and terms of employment
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed to undertake and complete the studies
by June 1986 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
58.     Publicity and Mass Communication.  A publicity cell headed by a
person of the rank of DCF would be established within the office of the
CCF (Development). It would plan, produce and disseminate social forestry
related materials. Similar cells headed by an Assistant Conservator of
Forests would also be established at the divisional level, these would be
equipped with mobile vans and audio-visual aids.
59.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  A monitor'ng and evaluation cell would be
established in the office of CCF (Development). It would collect data,
monitor progress regarding project implementation, and undertake onr-going and
ex-post evaluation of the impact of the project. The SFW would carry out a
mid-term review by March 31, 1986 after the third year planting season (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.02). The SFW would also submit bi-annual
progress reports to IDA and the Overseas Development Administration of the



-17-
UK (ODA). Not later than six months after project completion, GOK would
prepare and submit to IDA a project completion report (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.05(d)).
60.     Distribution of Produce from KSFD Plantations.  Distribution of
forestry produce from the project plantations on public lands would be done
in a manner which would: help meet the needs of the local population;
encourage community/panchayat participation; promote further social forestry
plantation projects by the panchayats; provide additional resources to
panchayats; and help KSFD recover part of the investment costs. Distribution
of production from all KSFD plantations on public lands would be in accord-
ance with the principles agreed between KSFD and the Association (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2.13).
61.     Except for the small quantities of fuelwood sold through Government
fuel depots at subsidised prices (established on a no loss/no profit basis)
fuelwood, poles, construction timber, etc. are sold at prices determined in
the free market. However, adequate reliable information regarding the long-
term supply and demand situation is lacking. The proposed wood-balance study
is designed to provide this information.
Cost Recovery
62.     The proposed project is intended to meet critical basic needs of
rural and semi-urban people for fuelwood and other minor forestry products.
The associated public investment is viewed as part of Government-s normal
program for the socio-economic uplift and welfare of the rural population,
costs of which, traditionally are not recovered from the beneficiaries.
However, some cost recovery would be made for investments made for afforesta-
tion of public lands by selling part of the produce accruing to the Forestry
Department. Furthermore, the costs of seedlings in excess of 750 seedlings
per farm family, would be fully recovered (currently unlimited quantities of
seedlings are distributed free of charge). The project would therefore,
substantialy reduce the incremental fiscal impact of the Earm forestry
component.
Organization, Management and Project Coordination
63.     A Social Forestry Wing headed by an Additional Chief Conservator of
Forests has been created within the Development Wing of KSFD specifically,
to implement the proposed project and also to continue social forestry
development during post project years. Below the headquarters level, project
implemention would be coordinated by Circle Conservators of Forests who are
responsible for all forestry development activities within their respective
jurisdictions. At the divisional level a separate group of professionals and
field staff with sole responsibility for social forestry programs would be
established. Senior level forestry staff and at least 20% of field staff of
the SFW would be appointed by April 30, 1984 (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 2.9). In order to provide the required extension service and advice
(para 41), orientation and training programs for KSFD staff would be
initiated in time for their services to be available for the 1984 planting
season (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2.9). Furthermore, KSFD would
finalize arrangements with the Departments of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development and other relevant agencies by June 30, 1984 to make available



-18-
their services to supplement KSFD-s extension effort (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2.10).
64.     Three committees would assist in project implementation.  At the
State level, a Social Forestry Advisory Committee (SPAC) would be
established, headed by the Secretary, Department of Food and Forests, and
would comprise representatives of appropriate departments and institutions.
Its main functions would be to provide policy guidelines, ensure inter-
ministerial collaboration and review progress of social forestry development
activities. At the territorial level, a Social Forestry Project Working
Group (SFPWG) would be established, and at the local level, the TLFC on
social forestry would provide guidance and implementation assistance. The
SFAC and SFPWGs would be established by March 31, 1984 (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2.11), and KSFD would review the composition and func-
tions of TLFC to ensure their effective contribution to project implementa-
tion (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2.11). To facilitate participation
by the poorer section of the population, KSFD plantations would be sited as
much as possible in close proximity to poor villages.
Project Costs and Financing
65.     Total project cost based on January-February 1983 prices and updated
to September 1983, is estimated at US$56.6 million, including taxes and
duties entimated at US$1.1 million, or 2% of total project cost. The foreign
expenditure component is estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent to 6.0% of
the total project cost. The principal cost components net of physical and
price contingencies are: planting activities (US$29.5 million); incremental
staff (US$8.5 million); capital goods and civil works (US$5.4 million);
operation and maintenance (US$2.2 million); and research, studies and staff
development (US$0.8 million). Physical contingencies at about US$2.6 million
were estimated separately on each item and average 5.5% of total project base
cost. Price contingencies at US$7.5 million accounting for 16% of base line
costs were derived from projected domestic inflation rates of 7X in FY84-86;
and 6% in FY87 and FY88; and inflation rates on foreign expenditures of 7.9%,
7.4%, 6.5%, 6.0% and 6.0% for each of the years FY84-88.
66.     The credit of US$27.0 million equivalent would cover 49% of total
project costs, net of duties and taxes. The Overseas Development
Administration is expected to contribute US$23 million equivalent, or 42% of
net project costs. COK/GOI is expected to contribute US$6.6 million
equivalent, or 11.7% of project costs.
67.     The proposed IDA credit would be made to GOI on standard terms.  GOI
would channel the proceeds to GOK in accordance with GOI's terms and condi-
tions for development assistance to constituent States. ODA financing would
be from its Retroactive Term Adjustment Funds which is an interest-free debt
relief on assistance previously provided.
Retroactive Financing
68.     Up to US$2.7 million would be provided to cover expenditures incurred
after March 1, 1983, for nulrsery development, advance soil works for
plantations, civil works related to construction of a training center,
procurement of essential vehicles and equipment, and incremental staff



-1 9-
employed on the 1984 planting operation (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1.4(a)).
Procurement
69.     Most civil works (US$3.1 million) would be small and simple struc-
tures widely dispersed, and scattered. As such International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) would not be suitable and contracts would be let on the basis
of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), under established GOI procedures satis-
factory to IDA and ODA, and/or by force account. Contracts up to
Rs 0.7 million would be subject to post-award review, and those over this
amount to pre-award review by IDA. Land acquisition (US$0.5 million) would
follow established rules and regulations of GOK. Vehicles (US$2.6 million),
comprising small numbers of several types, would be purchased over three
years and, as adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be
of paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made
vehicles of types already used by Government departments. Thus procurement
would be by LCB under existing Government procedures which are acceptable to
IDA. Equipment and furniture (US$0.6 million), comprising small numbers of a
wide and miscellaneous range of items purchased over three years would be
purchased by LCB with bulking wherever appropriate to facilitate this. About
50% of the total (US$37.2 million) direct plantation costs would be for hired
labor, 26% for materials and 24% for transportation. Nursery work would be
done by force account because LCB is not feasible. Land preparation, plant-
ing and maintenance for plantations by KSFD on public lands would be con-
tracted to laborers on piece rates established by the Public Works Department
for each work season. However, where such contracts exceed Rs 0.3 million,
LCB would be followed. KSFD would give priority to the disadvantaged com-
munity when hiring laborers for the project (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 2.8). Materials including polybags, fertilizer, insecticides, etc.
would be procured locally in accordance with GOK procedures. KSFD would use
its own vehicles or leased ones to transport materials. Lease contracts of
more than Rs 0.5 million would be on the basis of LCB following procedures
satisfactory to IDA. Incremental recurrent costs amounting to
US$12.1 million, including salaries, wages, operations and maintenance costs
and office expenses; training costs (US$0.8 million); and costs for research
and studies (US$0.07 million) would uot be suitable for any form of
competitive bidding.
Disbursement
70.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 70%
of total costs of civil works, including maintenance of buildings; (b) 100%
of CIF price of imported vehicles, equipment and furniture, 10O% ex-factory
or 75% of invoice price if locally procured; (c) 50% of total cost of planta-
tion costs; (d) 50Z of incremental staff salaries, in-country training and
vehicle operation and maintenance costs; and (e) 100% of total costs of
overseas training, research, and studies, including consultants. The ODA
grant of US$23.0 million equivalent would be disbursed as followt.: (a) 25% of
all costs of civil works; (b) 50% of plantation costs; and (c) 45x of total
costs of incremental staff salaries.
71.     Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would be
against statements of expenditure certified by the CCF (Development), the
documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA/ODA for review but



-20-
would be retained by KSFD/GOK and made available to IDA/ODA review misslons
for their inspection: staff salaries, operating costs, local tralning, and
plantation costs; civil works payments not exceeding Rs 300,000 and those
carried out under force account; locally procured vehicles, equipment and
furniture costing Rs 150,000 or less; and research, studies and local con-
sultant costs. Disbursements against all other items would be contlngent
upon full and satisfactory documentation. All Certificates of Expenditure
would be audited at least once every year and reports submitted to IDA and
ODA promptly thereafter. The estimated disbursement schedule for the
proposed IDA credit has been based on the disbursement record for the onr
going IDA-financed social forestry projects in India.
Accounts and Audit
72.     KSFD would maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures,
categorized by each component. Such accounts and certified statements of
expenditure would be audited annually by Government or a prlvate auditing
firm satisfactory to IDA, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, and submitted to IDA and ODA within nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.01).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
73.     The project's annual incremental production of biomass l/ comprising:
0.36 million tons of fuelwood, 0.97 million tons of eucalyptus wood, 0.2 mil-
lion tons of small timber and about 0.01 million tons of bamboo, which would
be about 45Z over the current production levels, would help reduce the
rapidly increasing shortage of these products. The incremental production of
fodder would support about 0.2 million cattle. Over the five year period,
the project would generate about 70 million mandays of labor, and some 118 mil-
lion mandays of labor are expected to be created on harvesting, maintenance
and fodder collection during the post investment years. Most of the employ-
ment would benefit the landless laborers, marginal farmers and other poor
sections of the population. Furthermore, the project would strengthen KSFD-s
organizational and operational capabilities for providing effective social
forestry extension services. The major enviroumental benefits would include
a significantly improved ecology through soil conservation, improvements in
soil fertility and micro-climatic improvements.
74.     The financial and economic rates of return are estimated at 23% and
22Z, respectively. Sensitivity analysis indicates that benefits would have
to go down by 60Z, or costs increase by 149%, for the project to be economi-
cally unattractive. The net present value of the project is Rs 691 million
and that of the KSFD plantation and farm forestry components are Rs 6 million
and Rs 581 million, respectively. The NPV of the bamboo plantations, planta-
tions on the tank foreshores and on road side plantations in dry zones com-
ponents are negative. However, these represent only about 5% of total
project plantations and less than 3% of project costs; these components are
justified on ecological and social grounds. The bamboo plantations would
1/   From the eighth year of planting for fuelwood species and Eucalyptus,
and from the fifteenth year for bamboo and timber.



-21-
exclusively benefit tribal people, while the plantations on Tank foreshores
and road sides would help prevent soil erosion.
75.     While KSFD is a well established department, its expertise and
experience regarding social forestry are llmited, and could constrain proper
project implementation. To minimize the risk, the project would provide
adequate incremental staff as well as intensive staff training. Moreover, It
is intended to recruit senior professional personnel early, and wherever
possible to utilize field staff of other relevant agencies. Limiting froe
distribution of seedlings to 650 per farm family could adversely affect
planting by private farmers. However, financial rate. of return to all
categories oE farm forestry are sufficiently high to overcome any potential
disincentives arising out of charging a price for seedlings over the free
limit. Nevertheless, the issue would intensively be reviewed by GOK and IDA
supervision mlssions, and particularly at the time of the mid-term review.
Finally, the high mortalilty rates and the problems of protection against
grazing pose a risk that the projected yield levels may not be attained.
However, this has been taken into account in estimating the project's
benefits, and estimated yields are well below the potential yield. Over all,
the project risks are low. Moreover, continuous, on-going monitoring and
evaluation, and the proposed mid-term review would help ensure the financLal
and economic viability of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Karnataka, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I (d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
77.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
78.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
November 21, 1983



AMU r
USiA                                         Page 1 of 5
A334~~~~ ~                      Ra3 -(otul es S?cta 
A    0A - T   -                        1960-      197g                        LIS                       T
AcAIcUL?UR& 2L                                3287.4                       SA6PCFCAI      AII
C3F pR 0AflA CM3)                                            21.
70.0      100.0       260.p             276.                     102L1
mtocRAWcr Cox imu&LU!.)       lU4.0       16         210-0                                        7P2.a
t A    A )    434650O    A7569      '90183.                                           .
POtLATZW pRiI1Cr.                               19.a       23.7
70es rw                              2140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.
STT   llM ?EPAR 200 (iML)                         1001.3                                        3.
TM  SQATO0lt  OP. tFACg                                2130
POPMLATIWN DEISrT1y2
PE  sQ.  ER.                     132.3      16ti6       205.3 
rE7 Sq. Mt. &Qtr. L,N
4OPLUTIM nCE 5xz247.0                       30?.5      372.7                                           S
0"14 YRS   STOCTURI! CZ)                                                  363.L                     260.7
LCSS-  .                          40.9      t427           jl.3
65   A M                        4 2 .7     ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~39 .7
POPULATngCwru    2                   4.6        3.z         3.0               59.2                     3.
r?AL ON                                   37 2.1    126 e                                            2.e
.5      22 .          3 .7
CRUM DPATH I'Arl                                           4~~~~~~~~.0               2.3
CRUDE DEAT      (mRAT3                         40.o        35.4                                         3.9
CRSS RENi RATE                     21.8        16.7        13.3              Z93
"ORAT  LAMR;  ftalls)           16532.9         2.7        2.4                10.9                    7.6
_.0                      9.6
TTaCCPOS,MX  TOS                                                                                           .
0SEa    ARor                 64.0      3762.0
PMm       R                                        15.0      23.0
15351  P00p FO  PR50 p       O. C0                   3                        48.1
S APER Hsnt EED                  9.0      102.0       107.0            11165  1
OIfIL. (AGES 1-  OIAT13.o5.                                                   52.2                     217.6
*ERACE~ ~     -4 llo.I CFn _                                                   136                       5739
IXLTR                                 26.2        20.7        17.0
IftE  NUPET_.ATE (PM71  TOMA)       43.2       46.1        52259660.
IIiPmrr HoEr. 3575 ~~  ?Imm~  165.0   53.          21.2 6z6.
A C C 70 M   T0   SA F   W A E                 13 9 0 7 0 ?)9                    .
Tom                            2.6P)      92.6 W3
ACX13 S 7o Ek73E74 OZSPo4                        6.0 eF                       2                        26.4 2  37-
CZ OF POiIMATIoN)        L20.Od2225.
0LR A L                                       1  6. 0    2 0 .0-                                       4
POP.FM aJ!. CrAX                                                   =.7                               67.5
TMft  1043640.0;                                                           356.0                      77.
URBAN                   218~~460:0             53      ~~         4797.q                   2462.6
RURAL                           ~~~~~~~1650.0  1310.o/d                                  26-
370-07d-         1100.665.
AUKISSMOM PER llspI74L an             10410.0r,299.4                              I067.2
AVERp.~~~~~~~~~ 51211 OP M0IISEp~~~9616                                             61.
7074M                              5.2                    S.2/S.
RURAN                                         562
rEWAL                               32          S
aim"L                              2.6        2.8
RURAL                              2.6
2.6        2.6
ACE'3S T0 ELEC.   go 
tWAL



COVPY A IAILARiE
AN= I
Page 2 of 5
IMIA                 -SOCIAL WICA?OtS DATA SUET
ZUDIA                    ~~~xfmEUEI10  auls  (ICdEtmIB  AVRAS) 1
HOST                   (30?ST RECZNT ESTSDAIA) /b
60b-    197rb  MST             LOW 130NCM            IDDLE YNCOIE
t96CC _1970 - S T       ASIA A PActric        ASIA S PACIFIC
AWUSTED E12.eJlEr InATOS
9RINA*Y:  IamL                  61.0       73.0       76.01f           96.1                   101.2
BALi                  8O.0       90.0       9D.01o9          107.8                  106.0
FF"aE                 ^40.0      56.0       61.07            82.9                    97.5
SECOIDAKr: TOTIL                20.0       26.0       25.0/f           10.2                    44.9
HALE                  30.0       36.0       37.0 f           37.3                     50.0
FOUNL                 10.0       15.0       is. 7f           22.2                    44.6
VOCATIOIL (C oF SECONDARY)        2.8        1.0        0.7/.             2.3                    16.5
rPorn-TE.AO RATO
PRUARI                          *6.0       41.0       43.0/f           34.4                    32.7
SECONDM'Y                       16.0       ZL.         ,.              18.4                    23.4
ADiLT LrrUACr RATr (z)            Z7.8       33.4      3S.0              53.5                    72.9
PASSeIqm CARS/THOUSAIS Po0        0.6        1.1        1.3/1             1.6                     ,.7
RADIO R1CEIVERSTHOUSAND Po0       4.9        21.5      *.4c-             96.8                   113.7
TV RrERSITUHOUASD P0P             0.0        0.0        1.7               9.9                    50.1
NEDSPAICE (-DATLY GENERA
tINEUST) CIRcOLATION
ER TROUSAD  POPMLAroE           10.6       16.2        19.7             16.4                    54.0
CINDIA ASMAL ATTEUUAEECAMPTA      3.2        4.1         3.7/.            3.6                     3.4
fARCE
TOTAL LABt FORCE (1305)       tS;95t.0   219194.0   271179.0
FE3aLE (PERCEhT)                30.7       32.5       31.S             33.3                    33.6
ARICOLTMRE (PERCUT)             74.0       74.0       69.3             69.0                    SO.9
IUUSLAT (PERCEr                 11.O       11.0      13.2              15.S                    19.2
PAXTCCEATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                           42.8       40.0       39.3             42.5                    38.6
HALE                            57.0       52.4       51.9             54.4                    50.7
FUlLE                           27.3       26.9       25.9             29.8                    26.6
E#INWIC DE151DEN1t RATO           1.1        1_1        1.1               1.0                     1.1
INODIsTrZuTDm
PEEiT oF IRIVAIE IC1HE
RWCIED BT
RIGZEST 52 OF HOUSEIILDS        26.7       26.31h     22.2.e           16.5                    22.2
RICHEST 20m OF IluSDUQILS       51.7       *1L97I     49.47;           43.5                    48.0
L-ZEST 20? OF ROUSwzMAS          4.1        6.77ii     7.o7!            6.9                     6.4
LOW= 40? OF OLUSUU.DS           13.6       17.2Xi     16.27;           17.5                    15.5
-Dmu mTSCHGRT
EsTiCATED ABSQtlIE POVERTY IrE
LgnL (USS PER CAPtTA)
JI                                 _         .       132.0            133.9                   194.5
RUAL                                                 114.0            111.6                   155.0
ESTIEA   RH.ATWvE POVERTY INCIR!
LEWE (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..        ..         ..                ..                   178.0
RURALM..                                    ..         ..                ..                   146t8
ESTIMATED POPD. BELO ABS(LUM
POVERI IIIC0W LEVEL CZ)
UBAI                              ..        ..        40.3             43.8                    24.4
RURAL                             ..        ..        50.7             51.7                    41.1
NOT AVAILAULE
IDT APlICAJ.LE
O o T E S
_ /a The trnlp averaes for each indicator are popfaittot.eigbted arftlmetic mafa-  coverae of comntrica *wong the
indlentor depends on availability oE data an ia nOt unifoTr-
/b  anles. otberwise noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year btwmeen 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- betwen 1s69 and
1971; and data for -Nowt Recent Iatlmte betmmen 1979 and 1981.
Ic 1977; Id 1976; /e 1975; If t978. LL 1962: /h 1964-65.
May 1963



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                               ANNMf 5
mloot %." dorm          l.a II ce.o Icaally Jana m1. -9ealbf.ttlol .o                         IsOtbl.a obmld 01.0 10 00001 sl.t Chor adl  bet   lt.mo   ol
beebabi, .1 h. 1-k ed a=9412-6 datteact-  eeed   -99moodas.  lb.tdata  .0.toa.eah.lO "M.                                 1.1"3 so
deo.t..  ad.t- at    dlI ko 1414. tnSa,i aid tbotlCiatlO   mota,.00  dl.o b. hts. a.ootI
lb   .amm    .Ar"e  *t (II oh. l.   0.500. ao  at 1'M .obj.. ..atn aid (2).P toaSt  ptoe  -lmb -eLOtN bla.. a ft.aoEm . lb.. hoe9 cmmmlt.y pomp  l rbo
ammobjl  001r  (ao.       o   Mob toos   toI ft.li.t. aSs I-h-oroa lOdtdtt  Om. ntak a             Plt., 00   51  50000 am o.oOc h--[ Oca       "t. .1 *t tat altam-oai
grmm   -.  o.I.e rE 'ar ird.  to. lime  wet t0*l.   o   lacossm r            hoLf   ImOtoor p4.M. -  to  oooL.billltl or dam   -  I. -         ilI.  -..1-  -at
ooatimd 10 -Ilnio  -otm.11  0  -   isicoimo to .mooh-r  Thom  *.t          mo lci maimS lee ts..otlo  eta tale. a5 .m  11..                   laoI  aPOLL tho amtcy .04
-TT   ivcf- 7"1ora   r.cmcll.1.   1  o    ma    tm    00                                    pyila*tlia-.50401rbo da.td Slo-ooiitr  -.0.3
A91 .I.- til dra.                                                                          'SmolP- "otto  oe.oloPrm.- omatlo   dISS0  ab1-c ml - ceoiad
1971 .0  t9o0 deai.rmali..msta   0-tto.mba.  oS tWta  -  oPioatia (tomta.
c  :FIT   C=   = P., -P$.. P-tiat..  -0- P,I.-.                            Peewee100   004 total  4131 P.&- .000. ootla    hso.  f lim,o
M    - C     1-po  e tor .otttO m1m l oys   mtlm   cl...11'-a-1 coM                                         i-s . d010 -soo  moP-oloto     1mopo          OM
tOA   970, ad  IIOLu  data,                                                                 by at loam  so pljool.-   tam.bIl.am  pr.idle otoblt  sSa
ar o-  -   loldo.Oo1 ta,4tsat. ta-.. t-.otmd  homi. aS
uRc? r-mo3100Ftg0   CWly*  - a.a  opoom  .-sm lL.ots of   -"-Iota                                .odmco  net ,r -s tsonoo Ic 00             by a phi-lola (boo by a o -Lo.
3.1-.7  cmtIt-I004stoa.. o.tcoto  nito   moa  P.,c-.                                    P-&a aooms   n,it   "f.0 5, ot. 0*t ..         lo-ft,t ad,coc04sla 
39.10. 1.70. .0410  doom..                                                                     aIa.- hosolto. IoLodi.1f 00oimltalea               omalot.=a  twea
%PMo-lsslt,  boa    -c  Woal .opia..  ad .od.a  ado ..t -o.
toalVoM JaMAs. li'.Ois.-oafs-  - ml talc I; lAAd91aod  Ots.lo-   .1                                                     We.to   0  - TPtal oa10  01 adolmomo  ma me dla9mboo
data.                                                                                        Sc-  n-iptol   dtolddM b, the nc or bai.
Osbm  L00at  o.t.o            m I - aRlo. ml .Itm  05 toa,L pos-atl;
aaib.om   olmtmnmm           .b.a     -F a  lot-  fcoe-biILtp ol ds.                     omi
-o0.amto-; 3980. 1970. ad  1W: Ata.                                                     S0t00 lo  of tooll  ieosl     bso dI - tosa. mba                         oo
~~iiiiiiW03FJtu -Coroo  pspobtmo  crjolmoa . td -.E tOWIdshl                                                                1".Waa.Ahmdo   tIOr soy -  IL.-oa. he toedo  to
totaL.p,ol-tl- *r ft.s0    -  a   0101. a.cmtlsr ad ImotllmyW                                         i ot d loIttota  cot--..
con  rj-1tI  coam-.. lot aomltytto  aole   1tho                                      ooom..         1..m -     t,P,n   -.ima. orb.o. ad con   100,0 oloho,
los.. a.al1.w  lat. -.ac-tgay at alco  lrmbt-af  ats   Ps.,.,F                               lctmtctci . alaon., a   tal-Ol.lo  --tmmlam,
caIa   n.  ... ad tmm1.i  SIlo -mP-.-,ac  otollltclmt   f.? 1.                     15115qgm. leom1l.ho  100.010oaor                             nmloma
0000  tO  lttf ta-a  t., ommo  to ice9' Omoth 500,a   05                                       - am  tC*
boctilly tot.to r.r.oaweo.boot.toam-,  oath                                                             """ '.iot-LI,oat.  oim.mm oa  woogdI  .10 coc
ooatln rmeitomItoe.-  .no                       onmamo.e.-1-                               sIme        ols.  ho"l..P at *hot   th   o tf uia!r ooo ao
Poa   0  otttciS.-tooa   .amcb    oimt.ii.                                                     .aa.     sotlodoc.a
ony;ba,  )il  ma to.  " a l dam.                                                  "me it..a -etoalm         Imeeom   o.o. -        totalon   Imiltt-_
mmccclsa   eii-@  lil-1 . a    191-0-01                          -. tm.Sloo  dImol.-                            
Srd   tto. tt  (o- th--"o) - n.-...a  lme brih   p-110.0   of od-
i-a  cpol-astool 0"900, 110. ad 1911 data.                                               csllfl35
Crud, boo.  Coo  me tbo        I - atmt doamb  co  mb-.w .*5o   l-oa                         om        Cato (cttomo   ooatai-iamo    tan  c                   t-Ft.
WPoyt.t.'   ot   - otro. amly0  dnb-M.t  o                Aallt hoo  Lm                    .&1 .t-   =00*0
Osm50110j.SiTooP.10   ml *10 slooomem   P-o    ags-pocl tu                          mdmhotroI.tbn d    o sI..-   -Mal  tp- am -1tmoame   m  c-dw
cocoilt  nb; anil  I oc-oatLoos.. "mI  .m It lilt, mil-, ad                         -ecai   to          . gooolclieW pot im am ofporoat; omela -
Ifni.e fls.    ooey.onICloaal-aot    s..o torI                                                 a.      i      elon   datalt- toa   on   ymohoms.loat    a
F-Lbls-mto   oio              co.losI.ta3ta. olal                                             cootl. aboimOo  atooni9a
osmotrll-.mt.mma l-o   eom-- -tct-stt  at~at                                                  0  oncom54  imet-ic   oomcott . -    soO t.f oe
m-id   ttdoo0. t.     oot4 _,oo S. Wra_,                                                   bt..eoebot t:e.3ae        W'r tC....m PI toulto  . lo- n tb  ocaa
..oso           -        o,. mem                     --etm.. c.-.W.l  - ..t.ina:  -. oocm  -moot-                                          oaot!-soa'."    -tratro
bO. m  mm   t.drtm  adlm  f90t-l'' t- F.03-. ..l                   .ot  *.-e.atl-I0t.da..tem.'...r.tt.asmol                                           t.!itt,lcd
to..-    ls  ..m.  yt bawls.-"lti                    _it.   s     -oty  m . Wo.            Caoo Otml  tsotme WEc tai.ot  ot Wad  a00                          rm
ontoaoo'  fonc  eu,o    obl   do a   motetot`  (.0-.a_ t-   la  LocIi tn mWor. -meodi. adao.o       ctea  c  
tells ad tot o . omi ks. odcoat  crMp           sto  f  me ema --1 ity                                    IVm. abllt  lto.LL
d-b.                                                                                     140-(0  tubOtac?t.
Pt.1toto  oml.o  eafib- tb emo. o.rto   my -m.Lto.tl-  so.   rcfe oe t;nm    -1 icmtlen by: ottlot i-cm     idlmamgal
mooy.oAimlm   l           F.0 WW.ifla    s.la  a. Intrla     co  apt  i-c                   lotoom  Iet  s c.-o  hot .nlIo   ba.e.on,  todor.am.  st
dor. otkmlm oopllm cmucl0 daimool   tlrl.  mot  lam.                                  `ocoloa .1   o   00   lfaiI.  lo   ea. -a.tI.  --  at                       Ile
Ima-ttild   mo to: :110 s-ooatf-   oat1,- bosom.t  W-Id.tfhoat -                             to.. ....nolF     Fal-lo   mtt             ccon..mlttal lo  lc
1.11_101 ad lolt        _toraldarime              _.et.naO.  m ooooo  hor siobim,              caolta  01~tomom   ca r -.Lmeau~p-., 10. 197 ad  110  da-ta..
into a   onM dtotelbaot   ml loo  -.  004 mIloolo. I    cTom   o  nt                          odo   tooreont)74   - 1*0  lot., to      -10g  e.osmtao.-,akoptIomym
Pat taalt  -otI  off-  . t otom-  -r  aol-  - ..Ieo     _-I. noo    ol i 1-yapt                 til_o ale 1901 data..                                 t,ie12     -
IaolV ..oI"'. lo   oI  ImmotIaf. aostloa  byCO.col    otmm.                                  ate beaF"r.  f   caio  t tmo  so-. toto. mb   sIoolbrb
:hl  naot of ,    .-,.e Cac  otamid. 19   o otbool Ceso       lb.n                           haG, 390          I' 90ata,- Ite.  ao f    lomat  -11W. coooaito  cabi
ThrdSoidrodbaon  ll-l    91 a    90 dt.                                                Iinot oludme aso    tta  t  otlaao add                   0  oIllayooet
For4 ecm   rtI-, o,c I...   stoo  ad .01- AP-i dreoo ,aifmt lu                                 tre-toal l        tb con..N-1"eyip-  
P11.                                                                                     b    -U.lZr ..-P-a it5
_o-      WI..'dt   olu    c   a   tabls;  900 3-0 a   1101 dams,_                            ba- II.oouol-d..1t.~"                                          r   -
fl-F to.tae  as oit = -Ic. -  coo.ottitmlooe   f .                  totomlmlot                                           bt so  mor peot It    ot.olr.cr10..a
at  1c.;  90,  IImmaliE  Cr.                                                obaI  boloarromd  ros toodotbl  Cot .0
.antamlnt. tor    mot od 0100 It.I peltooto  borlo-as  ipgo  d                             coaFobt.p00k Om   oo  a   ntl.d  ml9. 00100  11.-Fop
onjat    OOl 0 ctrmmoo.ml  hor copetio  oroooao   0. -                         -a.iteom  h PI,tty.    cl  lo.tl Im doctod Io   tis urt
arha  otoo  obal Imotao ormIai-m  loatudma  ly.obmo217 etmo  omolscot Mootnt I. hghe  eatat  101. toocba ooao



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ECGmC D3V8L?mU Dan
mm MM Coan  IN 111382 MU30
GROSS NTIAL PRODUCT I  1981/382-hf bCric"
USS Bin .    2               1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
CUP at market Prices        165.38   100.0                      3.7            3.6             3.6            2.9
Crorc Doastic  nveant        41.74    25.
Gr  N      eatia  Saving     37.66    22.8
Currgnt Accunt BaIlce        -4.08    - 2.4
OuTPUr. LUOR FORCE ND PRODuCrrIVm  3  1978
Value Added (at 3actor cost)       Labor Porte i/         V.A. Per gorker
USS Bln.         _Z           MUI.       2                       z or Natimal Average
Agricltre                    39.8            39.6          180.6    70.7              220           56
I-dustry                    25.:             25.1          32.2    12.6               783         1M9
Sdicrv                       35.5            35.3           42.6    16.7              833         211
letrvi     e                 35o.           le.            255.4   10e.0              TOW          we
Total/Averaeg               1070.5          100.025.                100                910
Gcovr FDU CE
Gea    Governent           Si                       Centrd Co       t
Rrs. Bln.     2 of CM                                  gra8. 2=      Z of  WD       7
1981/SZ 198-1/821977/75-1981/8                        1981/82    1981/32 1977/78-1981182
current Receipt.               285.77       19.4        19.1                          19.Z       10.1      10.4
Current ExpenditUres           280.34       19.0        18.2                           155.03    10.5       10.6
Currnt Surplus/Deficit           5.43        0.4         0.9                           -5.75     -0.6       -0.2
Capital Expeuditurea ft         116.91       7.9         7.8                            63.66     5.7        5.5
Eceenal A.irntaMCe (net) It      16.45       1.1         1.0
mSIE. CREDrr AND PRIcES         1970/71  1975/76 1976/77  1977/8  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 198118    Febrary 12            F
(Rs  rlmou aututanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money           110.2    224.8   277.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   554.5   625.5    615.5                        353,7
Bak Credit to GOveCwuent(net)   54.6      69.2    77.6    76.4    94.2   124.1   166.4   206.4    292.2                        487.7
BDak Credit to Comercial Sector 65.2    156.2   188.5   212.2   255.3   310.1   362.8   430.4   422.2                          68J.7
(percentge or Ide Numbers)                          Avril-Pb 1981/82   April-Fab 19M283
moey and Qad Money
as 2 of COP                   27.4     30.3    34.6    36.5    41.2    46.1    43.3    42.5
Uholeesal Price Index 
(1970/71 - 100)             100.0    173.0   176.6   185.8   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.3               281.7 -            287.3
Anna percentage chansge i2:
bolegale price Inde               7.7     -1.1      2.1      5.2     -       17.1    18.2      9.3           10.0             rt 2.0
Bank Credit tO Covernment (set)  15.0      6.3    11.1    16.3    16.0    25.6    29.6    19.1               22.7 J/             21.0
Bank Credit to Comrciel Sector 20.5       22.7    20.7    12.6    20.3    21.5    17.0    18.7               20.9 aI             '
1 The per capita GaP estizmte is at market Drices. usig World 11ak AtlaS inthodolog. bears parind 1979491.
All other coeversion  to dollars ln this table are at the averag  exchange rat pevailing durig the period covered.
B/ Quick Estimtes. Central Statistical Oranizatian.
cI Cowuted from trend line of CSP at factor cost  eries.  includin  one obaervmtin before firt yvr and am obaratlo  after lest
year of listed period.
dl World Bank estinetes of net disburse_ t: not necessariy consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers betwm  Centre and States have been netted oat.
f/ All loans med advace to third prti  bae been netted out.
&/ Percentage change fro  endwarcbh L981 to ead-Fabruny 1982.
h/ Percentage change from end-l4rch 1982 to end-February 1983.
Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown fro Sixth Five Year Pla. Tble 2.6 and Anunerre Table 13.8.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
3aUjIcK o PAYtMMr              19179130  1930/gi1 3/a  1962/6L3              HnERCU*UD!h incwr            L911179gTfl-1991t$2z)
(USS lll.)                    11tlM                                                                      3 8 n.   t
REports of Goods               7.948    3.504   3.511   81.00                 gf>l5inrm  Cood              901      11
Iuports of Coods if          -11.333  -16.119  -15.253  -14,801              Ta                            657       6
Trad  Balance                 -3.435   -7.615   -6.7-2  -6.001               Came                          759      10
NFS (nat)                       1.042    1.365    1.120    1.088             Clothiug                      556       7
leatter A Leatbher roducts   470       6
Resource S SLAne              -2.393   -6.250   -5.622   -4.913              Jute nmifactures              279       4
Irou ore                     352       1.
Interest Incom  (not) k          287      600      212    -128               Cotton Tletcil                319      4
Nec Tranferu  1/               1.852    2.771    1.577    1.668              Suar                          106       1
alane oan Curent Acount         -254  -2.879   -3.833   -3.373
Otficial 1.14                                                                Totel                       7.9B6     100
Gross Dihabrasmets             1.218    1.629    1.821    1.933              EMREWL DM. HAMCR 31, 1982
Ahortiztcion                   1.894    2.338    2.475    2.569
1S5 billio
Trasctions ewd. DW               -      1.035      690    1.980              Outstanding nd Disb4rse                13.3
All Other Iteas o/              -740    -130   -1.075    -358                Undlabursd                              .5
Cutstandifg. including                26.8
Increas  in Resers (-           -224     3U5    2.397    -182                  Undiabured
Gross Reserves (and year) p/   7.204   6.459    4.462    4.644
Net Reservsa (end yer) m1      7.204   6,532    3.498    1.703               DMI23 SRMaR RATIO FOl 1981/82 t/ nl 8.9 pES cant
Fuel and Related  at5ert1*                                                   XMD/rDA LDIMD  as of Febrnary 2J. 1983
Iuports (Petroleum) gj         4.046   6.657    5.570   4.686                                                    e58 i11
INMD
Outstandint and Didburmd         1.357        6.688
Undiabursd                       1.896        4.27o
Outstanding includin
Ildiber ed                     5,253      10.333
RATE OF IIRANCE
Jine 1966 to aid-Decesbr 1971           US1.00 - l 7.50                     5tot Raw and-Ibrch 1933: 11.00 - la 10.03
R  1.00 - US$0 13333                                           is 1.00 - 11.0097
Nld-Dscer 1971 to ent-June 1972         US$1.OO - Re 7.27927
as 1.00 - US0. 137376
After end-June 1972                     Floatig Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981      :      US$1.00   R  9.099
Rs 1.00 - u00.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982      :      US$1.00 '    9.634
Ri 1.00 I  W'U .104
Estimted.
I       Figures given cover el investment Income (net). Nmjor payments are inerest on foreign la   and charges paid to
V. and malor receipts is interest ead oo formis asets.
1/ Fiurs given include workers' remittnces but en  de ofELcl grtnt assiltance which is induded withiu
ofiisl aid dixburseneuts.
m/ Exclude  net use of XiV credt.
n/  AmottizAtin and interest paymts On foreign loan  AS a perentage of anports of gods nd _ervic,_.ad eag t txmmf58.
o/ Icludes cc_rcial borroing.
ecluding gold.
m/ Net of crude petrolem erports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                            1,688.0         -             -
83 Credits fully disbursed                               -       4,759.0           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                      -          30.0         11.56
502-IN    1975     Rajasthan Canal CAD                  -          83.0          6.83
521-IN    1975     Rajasthan Dairy                      -          27.7          6.30
522-IN    1975     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                 -          16.4         -0.11
598-IN    1976     Fertilizer Industry                  -         105.0          3.12
604-IN    1976    Power Transmission IV                -          150.0          3.95
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development       -           18.0          3.25
1251-IN    1976    Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -           44.92
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0         -           15.89
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport              25.0         -            4.77
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development            -          30.0         13.37
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development           -           20.0          3.30
685-IN    1977     Singrauli Thermal Power             -          150.0          7.45
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           12.0         10.29
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                   14.0         -            4.08
712-IN    1977    M.P. Agric. Development              -           10.0          0.49
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation           -           23.0          6.99
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development      -            8.0          3.96
736-IN    1978     Maharashtra Irrigation              -           70.0          4.05
1475-IN    1978     Industry DFC XII                    78.5         -            2.49
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage            -          107.0         61.57
756-IN    1978     Calcutta Urban Development II       -           87.0          6.51
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                         -            8.0          5.81
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0         -            2.54
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power        105.0         -            8.38
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                -          117.6         52.30
793-IN    1978    Korba Thermal Power                  -          200.0         47.64
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture          -           14.0         11.01
_   808-IN    1978     Gujarat Irrigation                   -           85.0         19.30
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries            -           17.5          9.98
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -          16.0          8.88
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII             120.0         -           22.27
824-IN    1978    National Dairy                       -          150.0         76.70
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II              -          196.0        156.24
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                     -          190.0         48.31
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage      -           38.0          8.48
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research      -           27.0         18.96
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension   -            25.0         7.58



BESr cOpy AV tANNEX II
BEST  OPY AAILABLE                                  Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                                     30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Haharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -           22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -           23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -             7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads       -                         35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0          29.04
1108-IN    19B1      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0        106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                             190.0          -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -           60.0         45.33
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -           72.0         71.39
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0         31.06
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh               -            -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0         26.94
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0        121.37
2205-IN    1983     Krishnr-Godavari Exploration       165.5          -          158.92
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0        197.01
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      222.3          -          219.01
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II             -         101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -         170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III*      -          147.0        147.00
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -          32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization       22.7         -            22.64
2283-Ill   1983     Central Power Transmission*        250.7         -           250.70
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2         -            46.08
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban*               24.1          -           24.10
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II*                -         105.0         105.00
Total                                   5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid              1,251.2       136.1
Total now outstanding                   3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/       3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,100.45    4,124.24
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1Y83)
Fiscal                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5         -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2          j
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The BombayjDyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.7        -       15.7
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.3        -        8.3
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manur
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       4.2         -       4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                         53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                       30.1        -       30.1
Cancelled                    16.1       1.4      17.5
Now Held                    112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                  82.9        -       82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
15 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Karnataka assisted by the Association.
Cc) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
August 1981; January/February 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January/February 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November, 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
March, 1984.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOK would, within specified dates
(i) implement the proposals for distribution of forestry
produce (Paragraph 60);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) appoint senior forestry staff and at least 20X of
field staff by April 30, 1984 for the SFW
(Paragraph 63);
(iii) Einalize arrangements for utilizing services of
field staff of other relevant departments
(Paragraph 63);
(iv) establish SFAC and SFPWGs and review the functions
of TLFCs (Paragraph 64);
(b)  KSFD to limit free distribution of seedlings to 750
seedlings per farm family and to charge a price equal to
its production cost for seedlings in excess of 750
(Paragraph 46);
(c)  KSFD to review its current social forestry research
program and prepare a detailed program for implementa-
tion by June 30, 1984 (Paragraph 57);
(d)  Consultants with qualifications and terms of employment
satisfactory to IDA would be employed (Paragraph 57);
(e)  GOK/IDA would conduct a mid-term review by March 31,
1986 after the third year's planting season
(Paragraph 59).



ISOHVIT5 IN PALLIAMETERS                  '                       
|RIVERS 4 AS ANDWEIIRS                          "_.                                        - 
O    DISTRICT HEADOUARTERS                   @\        1#                                       \ 
i) STATE "EADUARMRS                                                          IN $DIA        dt
-    -DITRICI P.OUNDARIES!                    -. Ir                                             ,w"
_._SATE BONDRIESr                                     .
I-NTERNATIONAL BOUNANRlSf                                                 /
MAHA^RASHNAs\u                                    vbrg        
a  ,         onioPur   e>a ,Bii.t r
;  *  <v        /      -   0      -        ~~~~ANDHAA PRADESH
xx o},    5,,   t N                 /          Rcschur 
\v.vaK  s o    v  v   - pH   -       )                    ~INOIA
-<.\!;X?  N',,-     E  <    t1i       /      KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
G  O     A    Dhrwor        4            /-i0                         TYPES OF FOREST
p\:    - . vx  j j   ..............   .   :   w   >   ;  '    ' ' ^TROPICAL   WET  EVERGREEN
x <  /    116  ;  .'   \    _   : |       - ' . -. * , ~~~~~TROPICAL SEMI-EVERGREEN
J * s < ;M ~~~~~~~~-1.f /                    4          SVMOIST DECIDUOUS
\  6.3uX  ;;1 1 x   ,   S                         i ~~~~~~~~~~~SCRUB
\g;   \   J        '9                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~413  TOTAL AREA WNDER FOREST(IN OMH.
.\4   .  \ \  v_t_  Chiirdurga         _
a    ,k :3r;'FatWa         /s    >o 
'C4_e                       Tulmku..   S      l ,
l  :>/   f l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
t>."'.'e'<<<~~                       1043 \
<<&t  )Sy                                      o . Z   a  m~~~~~~~o
AV,i                        A Z                                             ETERS
a ~       ~    H_ I



