Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11929
PROJECT CIOIMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1432-IN)
June 1, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11929 IN         Type: (PCR)
Title:  KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY   (CR
Author: GIBBS, CHRISTOPHER
Ext.:31735 Room:T9044 Dept.: OEDDI
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This donment has  m*etWtd d tbstld. sd may be Used by me aytD In she pefonnance of
thWe olici dude. Its lontctdas sw t a oy"  ul be dlb          I WoU  ank B*tswtattden.



INDIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1432-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Nameof Cuency                                          Idia Rupees (Rs.)
Apprais Year (1983)                                   US$1.0 = Rs.l0.1
Intervening years (1983184- 1990/91)                  US$1.0 = Rs.13.7
Completion Year (1991/92)                             US$1.0 = Rs.24.4
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - Mah 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DCF                             Deputy Conset of Forests
ERR                             Economic Rate of Retum
FEW                             Forest Extension Worker
GOI                             Government of India
GOK                             Gofvernment of Karataka
IIPO                            Indian slue  of Public Opinion
IRR                             Intemal Rate of Retum
KSFD                            Karnataka State Forest Department
MTR                             Mid-Team Review
NGO                             NonGovernment Organizaton
ODA                             Overseas Development Administaton
PM                              Project Iplementaton Manual
PCR                             Project Completion Report
RFO                             Range Forest Officer
SAR                             StaffApprais Rep
SFW                             Social Foreshy Wing
VFC                             Vilag Fos Committee



FOR OFFICJAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
June 1, 1993
ORAND~T TH1E EXECI DIRECUIO AND TwHE PRESIDENT
Subject:    Proect Completion Report on India
ataka Social ForestY ProMct (Cr.1432-IN)
Atached is the Project Completion Report or ndia Karnataka Social Forestry Project
(Credit 1432-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part H1 contnrbuted by the
Bo3rower.
Mm project achieved its physical targets and, in terms of its stated objectves, the
overal outcome is rated as satifacry. The project, however, did not alleviate fue}wood shortages;
the poverty groups which provided an important part of the rationale for the project, were addressed
orly marginally, efflective community participation in project implementation was not attained; and
hstitutioal development of the implemng agency to improve its capacity to work coLaboratively
with vMagess, filed to occur.
Usefil adaptations to the orinal project design did occur during implementation, but
they resulted largely from beneficias' indemdent responses to market conditions and external
pressure from environmental groups on the Bank and the Bonrower. Project sustainabflity is rated
as unlikely on social and institutional grounds
An impact evaluation is intended at a future date.
Attachment
This document has a reticted distribudon and may be used b frcipient only In the performane of
their ofcil dutie. es oonbtnts may not othewiAe be dlosed without World BanJ authorizaton.



Ka OFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
MIA
KARNATAKA SOCMIL PFORSMTY PROJECr
(Credit No. 1432-IN)
TABLE OF CONTFNrS
EVtALUXAT[7ON SUMMf~ARYt .............................I...........                                 . MI-
PART I PROJECr REVIEW  FROM  THlE BANJKS PERSPECTIVES............................1
1. Projects.denfti  ......*.*...................I ...................................*......   1
2. i0jOdCtOf....................................................                      4*.....t........I
3. Background                            .....................  2
4.                                      ..... *.*..**..**..*...*...**.***....***-*-.**+*¢^* .**.*.. . ....... I..* 3
5.  IrecCnetad  csg......                      ..... *........4...........*.*....................t.........  3
6. Project............tI..o..I..........................................6
7.  TBeRole.o CtII.* .................................................... 1
9.  .I.....ect..veineiit..............    .3               .....     .............. .....  14
9. I}oet Sustainaility                  .g..                                                        1
10. Is..t...onl                  .    .........                       ... .      ..    .............. 15
1 1. Overall Findings and Lessons Leaned  ..I.......*.......... 17
PART 1 PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWEkS 'S.P.E.R S..CII.V. .                                          19
PARIT m STIATICA, I                              NO ]6N 26
1 . Related Bmnklolaxns andCredits           S............      .......................   26
2   Projea   nztable .................................................... .............  27
3. C7redit DisSbursevalznts .........................................2r7
4. Project  Impplemaentation.. .............                                            .............. 28
3.  I'riijcctCostaan in       ng                                                                    30
Bfi. ProectFinacinottst ..............                                                          30 So
A. IiI.ect.Be.efits       .       .. .31
B. Pari     c ifgOutp .ts.   ........................................................              31
D.  .i.iancui.al [n. .a.ct.*.. ..........                                      4 . ...... #.*..  32
7. Statuxs of(C kvenaents       3.      .................... .....   33
8. MPission Data ad Staff Intp ut               s....................................ts             34
B. StaEc l3zIpu ts ................ ......... ......*.                     .................. 34
1. Finacial Co psts -  M ..odk3s I and II. o.a!.al..nd C &. D   lan. ds...................... ..... 35
2. SiGnailo Covensts  .....el.....a...F..... .      s....................................... ..  35
3.    Maias Ci sts - .odl I, C           .anal B as.. ......................................................... 3
4. Fiacial Costs - Model V,  aR               es         .................................... 36
35. I!ancmial1 <Costs - Moideal sTV,Cnl BankLs ........................                             36
5.  Financial Costs - Model VI,Bamnboo ................................*.****.* ..*..........*......I :37
This document has a restricted distsibution and may be used by recipints only in the petoune
of their official duties Its contents may not othewis be disclosed without Would Bank authorization.



6. FPomoialc Coxsts - MUodlel V1]; Famlz Fcnest2ry .......................................... 3 7
7. 1'Oj@ct3EnonIowIc Analysis ....................  ...................................... 38
MAPS
IED 17162
IBRD 17163



i
PROJECT COMPLTIONREPORT
DIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1432-I)
PREFACE
This is the 'rject Completion Report (PCR' for the Kamataka Social Forestry Project
(Credit No. 1432-IN) for wbich a Credit of SDR25.6 million (US$27.0 million equivalent) was
approved on December 20, 1983. Toe Credit was closed on Mach 31, 1992, tree years bebind
schedule. During the funds redeployment exercise for India in December 1991, SDR2.2 millon
(US$3.0 mllion equivalent) was cancelled. The final disbursme  frm the credit was made on
September 1 1992 and the balance of SDR23.4 million was fully disbursed.
Parts I and I of this eport were prepared by an FAO/CPproject compleIon mission
which visited India in July 1992 (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and Il. Part II was
by the Government of Karnataa
The prepaation of this PCR was based inter   on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
legal doculnents, supe-vision reports, correspondence between the Bank, the   eas
Development Administration [(ODA), co-financer of the Credit), and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda, and disc ssions with Bank staff both at Headq s and at the New Delhi
Oaffice.



ifi
PROEC COMPLETION REPORT
IND)IA
KARN 4TAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PRO3ECr
(Credit No. 1432-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Plroject Objectives
1.     The project's primary objecive was to augment fuelwood supplies in piority rural and
seti-urban areas tbrough the establish ft o plantados on Governmet, vile  and private
lands. Scondary goal we theprovision of small dimension timber, fodder and other laed
foiest products. Ah      the  t  covered tie entire Stat%e, prorit  tree es  was
in tho  districts which f   at least two of the dtree co s: (a) mean annual riifall below
800 nm  (b) degnated forest area less than 15 percent of total geographic ara; and (c) me tan
nine rura-based persons per ha of deset forest area. The project's main target group was the
landless, mar    fmers (0-1 ha)      farmers (1-2 ha). To achime these ends, the project
was to pantha of planaions with nerly 900 million seedlings, 88 perentof which wee
to beien to pate landholdes In additio to the primary plandng acdvities, the project was to
support to the Karataka State Forestry Department (KSED) for project or  *on,
onitoring and evaluation, research, htrning, extension and publicity. Due to exchange rate
movements and delays in procurement and staff hiring, a si cant tundisbursed t balane
remained at the end othe origina Closing Date in December 1988. For this reason, and to fufil
unattined planting t   the project was extended three times, eventually lengng the project
life from S to 8 yeas and 3 monhs
Implementation Experience
2.     Plantation establent advanced rapidly at first because of existing capacity and
expeince in the KSFD. In contrast, hirng of staff, purchasing of vehicles and civil works
proeedeld slowly. Delays in sanctoning staff posions pardally explain the initial recriment
poblems. The numer of sancioned positins eventually rached 2,814, or 62 percent the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) target, of which 96 percent were filled. Monitoring and ealuaton,
research, training, extension and publicity were parcularly weak aspec of the roject
Publicaton of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was delayed until December 1986.
Furtemore, a Monitodng and Evaluadon cel was never established which hindered on-going
evaluadon. A Research Manual was eventually produced in 1988, but was never serously
followed. A total of 7,415 persons received project-funded training, 43 percent of whom were
from outside the KSFD. Unfortnately, taining wss not provided to forest rangers or guards
iathough they had the grate tining needs. From 1987 onwards, two new taining facilites
became available, but these were not adequate for the level of uaining envisioned. The proposed
extension approach, involving the tainig of subject matter specialists to back up the exitng
agcuala      s s, was never fayimplemented. Instad, the KSFD developed its own
extension approach by converting forest guards into etnslonist. In additon, forest extnsion
workers were often assigned noextnsion duties, and motivators faced an aray of constints
because of this. Nonetheless, the modvats could be credited with generating an increased interest
intree planting.



Ilv
3.     Plantadons were genlly well esot ed under the project Survival rates for the
priod 1983/84 to 1987/88 rprivate and       e el              were 67 pecent and 82
percent, respectively. Surval rates are sutprisingly good in he light of concens about poor
seeding qult, but the rate of rowth appearslower than anticipated, due to high pantig
densiies, piferag and pest and disease problems with some species, sad unsad sactoay
establment technology. Sowing of various native and exoodc species on mounds created by
trenh exc     was practiced, but suriva rates were often poor or nil because of trampling and
shading out. Species choice was dominated by Eucanypta  teredcornis, but this was  arey
modified int  face  strong cricism fm localnd inenatioal envionmt grou, dite
lack of sciendfic evidence ofthe reportdlynegav eff of sof the   cies. By the fily  of the
poject the use of Eucalyptus addeclned to a maimum of 3 percent of the trees planted o
vilggrnment lanttio and 17 percent on private lands Oveallu   wasesd
to resent 34 perent o the sedlings Iraised under the project. P t  anddistribution of
sedlngs was based on Kissan or "farme" nurseries set up with the assistance of the project.
However, only limted ie makedng of sedngs occmwed and whether te Kissan nurseries
will continue bo opet is unclear.
4.      DeIte an ephasis n the projeces design on consltion with communities conernng
specie. seec and impactson fodder supplies, lte consuldon tak place during the projec's
ealy ye. Opniesimproved m             withe Inoducdon of mcroplanning in 1986, b t
its poise was ner        and only a few micw plans wer acaly undtaken bereplanth.
was commenced. Lite planning was done for nant of plantations established priorto
1991, alduh  most of the 94 m  ent plans so far  eted are reasonably well prepared
(3,500 are sdll to be done). Vilage Porest Cmmitees (VFCs) have been set up in only 100
_ Om unitiesand coverin less than 5 percent of the villages. Many of these have repoedly been
formed because the proect so required, and not because the members wanted to contibute
NMOs could have heped w             planning but te involvement was not envisioned in
the project's design and generally the KSFJ has not made a large-scale effort to work with
volunteer groups
Projict Results
5.     Using forestry planting  ges as a base for assessment, the project might be conidded
effective. Over 41,000 ha of plantaions were establshed on village4government lands and a
reported 507 millon seedligs were distributed to fms (esumaed as sufficient to plant 122,000
ha). As a social foreseq project directed at benefitting poor people, the project had major
deficenies. There was l ctl ommunity paricipadon and the poorest people did not reap the
beneft envisaged at appraisal. Under the project 3,627 villages benefitted, each  ablishing an
avemge of 11.3 ha of block and/or strip planions. However a benefit-sharing or, which was
issued by the Govemnment in 1986, applied only to block platations (not strip plantaions) and
was not efecdvely implementedpuntl manentplandng began in eareSt in 1991. Concerns
also arose dwing the    over whether smaler and marginal frmers and the landless were
benfitting from the distri   seedlngs. Evidence suggests dut large famiers ciu
the free seedl  limits and have benef  more than was indicated by project records. The
landless only hd heir homesteads to plan  They were supposed to benefit t=rough supplies of
cheap fuelwood but this did not happen as most of the produce were sold to traders. The prsed
non-dmber products wee aso not produced.



v
ProJect Sustalnability
6.     Susnabty wl be a citical issue for this projecL Sie much bss attendon was paid
to participation support, ad feedback activides, tan oplaning tgets, there are serious doubts
concerning the fture mangement and regeneion of existing community plantations. Villags
tend to regard  ewoodl  as public works projects and not as community asse, and the number
of management plans yet to be prepared is daunting - nore than 3,500 are reqed win the t
few yearsnd even interim guidelines for management of these plantations have not been
adopted. Cncenng farm forestzy, attempts to price seedings have largely failed. Farmers are not
wel infre about altentives to Euclu which is till thie ms raiyakeble  co, and
many continue to se; trees as competg with crops. Part of this is due to lack of suitable
altemative models and weak entension efforts. However, there are encouraging signs: several
communities have expressed interest in locating woodlots in their areas, and some prvate
independent nurseries have appeared in a few districts, partally in response to the project lhe
poutial impact on wood ma.-kets and price levels due to possible ove supply has not been
assessed (but it has become an issue in other states with sima projects).
Findings and Lessons Learned
!.     lh' Kiataka Social Forestry Ptoject is unusual in that physical taets appear to have
been met but the project cannot really be deemed a success. While the forestry production
objectives were largely fulfilled, the pioject did not ensure that benefits were directed to the poorest
people. Themain reasons forthis are: (a) failure toreci  the magnitudeofthe change thatthe
Departntwas reqired to make: fim a policing body toadevelopmntal agency; (b) trainingof
e lower levelfield staff who acualy had to inplement the program was neglected; and (c) high
planting targets udlized most available resources and few were left to nurture crucial project
tunis. To a large extnt, the project simply expanded upon exisdng activities   e than
imulating significant changes in the technical and social aspects of the Deparment's wor. The
l  of serious community consultadon, especially in the early years, engendered a passive attitude
towards communty plantations among villagers, and this has hinderd the project's long-term
success. Most of the wood harvested from these plantaions will likely be sold for urban and
industial use and it is questionable how mudh the disadvantaged are likely to benefit from an
incease in wood supply. Kissan or "prive" nurserymen could not graduate to self-reliance, due
to competing departmental nurseries which supplied free seedlings. Many recipients of free
seedlings have also planted trees to supply industry, rther than to increase ruml fuelwood
supplies, which was one of the project's chief aims. In hindsight, it was not reaistic to epct to
spply cheap fuelwood to the poor trough comunity foresty and private plantations and many
of te prolems of realizing that goal coul have been fioreseen.



PROJECT  COM ETION REPORT
N)DIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECr
(Credit No. 1432IN)
PART L Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
1. Project Idetty
Project Nam         Kanak Socal Foresty Prject
Credit No.       :  1432-IN
RVP Unit         :  South Asia Region
Couny               India
sectw            :  Agriulte
Sub-cecwr           Forstry
2. Introduction
2.1       Forest Sector Situation. Idia sis estnatedto have a fores and woodland ara of
about 650,000 square kIlonms, accounting for 22 percent of the total land aream Tiber,
fueiwood and cha     ae the pmary products produced, with fuelwoKd alone accountn for 6S
perent oof rural energy    on. Minor prducts such as lac for export, fodder atd fruit are
aso important, as are Ce     f     of rcligious ignific  wbich have been deigted as sacred
groves. Pressure on lndia's forests has been  ie , due to a combinaton of wood
requireents,overgrazing, tae and expansion of the cvated area to meet food needs. Paton
growthis oone of the major causes of daton, which in tn results in srious e nment
problems such as soil erosn and resvoir sedimentation A decliing avilabilit of fiwood has
led to its substitution with cowdung and agricu'rl residues, lea    to a reduction in the
application of orgnic feilizs to farm fields and, consequently, to dmng sofl ertilitY.
2.2       Policy Environment. The need to address the critical shortfl in fudwood supply,
as well    to ineas  the productivity of degaded woodlands were key issues behi the
devopm  of social forestry in Inia. Recognizing the need to take acdon an de fstituaio,
the 1952 Forest Por pOmoted the noion of prottng existg forests and involving people in
the e l          andae       of village forests and "tret-lands" by providing them with a
direct stke in such lanc Puterdefinition was provided with the evised Natonal Forest Policy
of 1988 wbich empham  the ecobgcal inmortance of manning and increasing the forest cover
in vulnable area The new polcy ouines a series of masures, such as the use of tee "PM"
schemes and private supply of industial wood requirements to involve co ties in the
prcion and       o     f forest, and indiiduals m    social fostry acivides. Treepatta refers
to the grantng of usu&uct to individuals over trees planted on govement lands in return for a
commit en to maintain them. As a rsult of the pnlury response to India's forest concems, the



2
country's wooded aroa actually incaeased at an annual avrage rate of 0.3 percent duing the period
1965 to 1989.
2.3       Bank Lending and Social Forestry. Contributing to the afforestation effort has
been the Bank's ctdve involvement in India's forest sector, including the financing of seven
rects in social forestry alone since 1978. The first generadon of social forestry projects, in Uttar
Pradesh (Credit No. 925-IN) and Gujarat (Credit No. 961-IN), were followed by pwiects in West
Bengal (Credit No. 1 178-IN) Pmd Jaw mu and Kashmraryana (Credit No. 1286-IN), pior to
appraisal of the Kamataka project in 1983. Subsequently, social forestry projects were
commissioned in Kerala (Credit No. 1514-IN) mnd in several states (Gujaratm Uttar Pradesh,
lHichal Pradesh and Rajasthan) under the Nati ,nal Social Forestry Prject (Credit No. 1611-
IN). These projects were all designed to address the shortage of fuelwood and odr secodary
products in rural areas. Since te ast of the social forsty pxojects was initiated in 1985, thiing
has shifted away from support to social forestry alone, to include managent of goveent
forests, activeparticipation of c ides, and a greatr role for non-govemment oranizations.
Two projes have been iniated under this new approach: Maharashtra Forestry (Cedit2328-IN)
and West Bengal Forestry (Credit 2341-TN). Both projects were appraised in 1991.
3. Background
3.1       The Stateof Kanauaka is nuated in Southwest hIdia, withan aea of about 192,000
km2 (19.2 million ha) and a populadon of 45 tnifion (1991). With an aver.ege popuation growth
rate of about 2.0 percern per annum from 1981-91, it is one of the fastest growing States. Most of
the State lies on the Deccan PIateau, borderd in the west by a coastal strip about 30 km wide, with
average rainfall of 3,000-3,700 mm, and by the Western Ohats, low hills of altiudes up to 1,500
manaaverage rainfall of 2,500 mm. Average rainfall elsewhere in the state is about 1,350 mm, but
many areas are classifed as drought prone. Government forests cover 20 percent of the State's
land area, with less than o  percent additionay aounted for by private forests. Ay
50 percent of the forested area has a canopy density of less than 20 percent and is rated as
degrade  Pductivit is exectedly low, because of past degrdation through unasticed felling,
burning and overgamng, and also because of aridity and low soil fertility. The estmated state-
wide consmption of fuelwood is 4 million tonnes, of which 25 percent is consumed by-rural
users for domestic purposes and the remainder by urban dwellers and industry. Within theprect
a, consising of the dryer porions of the Stue, per capita daily consumption of fuelwood is
estimated at 1.3 kcg, and fuelwood meets 80 percent of overall rural fuel needst
3.2       Social foreshy activities in Karnataka prior to the project empbhsized planting on
government lands and involved tnimal consultaion with local people. Ealy ?lantingprograms
were nonetheless responsible for the establishment of over 16,000 ha of ph ntations plus the
distibution of 211 milion seedlngs between 1979/80 and 1982183. In order to step up Ohe pace of
activity, the Government of Karaaa prepared a project proposal in 1981 frui-lateral
finacing considerion. This prposal, which was to serve as the project's preparation report,
emphasized the need to increase woodproducon and self-sufficiency in wood products primarly
in twelve dryerdiscs of the State and to involve ilagers in the planting and management of
plantations. Approximately 180,000 ha of plantations were to be created ua&er the proposa, of
which 60% were to beon private rmlands planted with seedlings provided by the govenmment
and the remainder on government lands. Communities were to benefit financially from the
government  plantaions by sharing in any renues generated from village plantaions, and from
the employment created by the pmoject



3
4. Project Objectives and Description
4.1       11 primary objecdve of the project at appaisal was to augment fuclwood supplies in
priotity nral awd semi-urban areas and, secondarily, to provide sma timber, fodder and othr
ltd forest products. he project also txrged the landles marginal (0-1 ha) fiumer and small
(1-2 ha) famers as beneficiaries. To achieve thes ends, the Staff Appraisal Rport (SAR) set out
an ambidous planting proam covering some 150,000 ha of planions involving the producin
and distribution of nearly 900 million seedlings, of which 88 pement were to be given to private
landholders under a "farm forestry" sub-component. More specifically, the project was to
(a)    20,000 ha of plantaions on village gomal and govemment owned C&D class
wastelands 1;
(b)    3,000 ha of plantations on irrigaton tank foxeshors;
(c)    4,000 ha of strip plantions along roadsides and canal banks;
(d)    2,000 ha of bamboo plantadons; and
(e)    120,000 ha of pnvat plantaions on farmland
4.2       In addition to the primary plantinp activities, which constituted the most im t
project component, funds were included for "implementadon assistance" to the Social Fstry
Wing (SFW) of the Karnataka State Foresay Department (KSFD), the iplemening agency.
Unde the project organization component, support took the form of Incmental staf veicles
an equipment and ciil woks. Taiing and reseaich compnsed the remaining two actties. Ie
SAR advised against formulation of a distinct extension service, recommending instead that
xisting agricturna extension services be utilized with support from a core of forestry e
amongst KSFD field staff. To support the extension service, the SAR made alowance for th
hiring of 3,000 forest "motivators" to work direcdy with communities and individuals in
prmoting the planting of trees.
4.3       Total project costs were estmated in the SAR at Rs.552.3 million (US$56.6 million)
in 1983' cumrency nits. Planting activities alone accounted for 52 percent of the total The Bank
was to providesdard flinF for 48 percent of project costs, while an additional 40 percent
was to be co-financed by the British government's Overseas Development Administrton (ODA)
as a grant. The Governent of India was to finane the remaining 12 percent of costs. The CA
assistance ended on March 31, 1990, when its third and last extension was completed. The
Bank's sbare of project costs was incrased to 90 percent overall in line with the Bank's revised
country assistnce stategy for agriculre projects.
S. Project Concept and Design
5.1      In designing the prjec a number of guiding pinciples were taken into considea
These included-ting of areas for planing with low cropping potential, involving conmuniti
in the prnect's acesand ensuring project outputs went towards satsfying local wood product
1   0fGoem lands frd to pizig lns ua the cowl of vilages, wle CD lands are waslds wbich
wers orgialy ontrold by tha GOK Reveuwe Depart_en but which wee hed ove to th Foresty
Depatmet in 1979.



4
noeds, especially those of the less advantaged. The project was also designed with the intendon
that project costs would be cvered wherver possbe. Innovadve fea   in te project's design
included a much gater reance on farm foresty than in previous projects and the intention to use
existing extension Service. However, the  ta       Fosty Projc was appraisd at a
time  when social frestry in ndia was increasingly coing uander fire from non-governmental
organia4ons (NMOs) and in    al evi          al Xiups for its ove reliance on Eucalyas,
and a tendency to displace food crops and generate supplies of industial wood rather than
fuelwood, and fizit and fodder for local use. Unfo ately, this conrovery was not sufficiently
taken into account in the discussion in the SAR and the project design. With 92 percent of fum
forestry plantings prposed as Eucalypus, it was lte wonder that dte project came under intense
scrutiny. Thne Euclyptus issue and other key aspects of the project design worthy of closer
review are discussed below.
5.2       The Eucalyptus Controversy. In Kola District, where the Kamataka version of
the contoversy raged strongest, the species was criticised for lowering water tables, competing
with crops for limited soil moisture, robbing the soil of nutrients, and exposing vast areas to
eosion. Some of the criticisms may have been unfair. For example, lowering of the water table
was partily due to aarge increase in the number of borewells drilled in Kolar over the period
consided, while soil nutdent losses may have  cured rmegaress of the species selected because
of the poor quality of some of the sites planted. ODA has conducted research in Kanataka
examining the impact of Eucalyptus on the water table, but thus far results have boen
indetrinate. WIle Eucalyptus on a per tree basis may use somewhat more water than other
species, on a per unt of wood produced per unit of water supplied they we very efficient. Project-
funded research at the University of Agncutual Sciences at Bangalore, however, has shown that
Eucatyptus has a strong competitive effect on adjacent croppe areas. In response to crticism
levelled at the project, the KSFD, despite lack of scientific evidence of the repordy negative
effects of Eucalypms, early on reoriented the species mix away from Eucalyptus for block and
grip plantaions, increasing the ewhasis insted on fruit and multi-purpose trees. I light of the
controversy, the projecfs design should have taken greater account fthe potential shocomings
Of Eucalyps m  amving at a species mix for the vancus planting models. However, farmers
planted eucalyptus not because of ignorance, but because of its fast growth and ready
marketability, and also pady because it did not require as much labor and other cosdy inputs as
agricltural crops.
5.3       Industrial versu  Social Forestry. he practice of supplying industral wood to
the local pulp and paper industry was well established in Kamataka, especially in Kolar and
surounding districts, before the project was initiated. The fact that much of the project's output
would lioely supply this maket shoud have been apparent from past experience in the State, and
in the light ofthe higherretuns available in oison to fuelwood sales. The pulp and paper
industry will no doubt benefit fom the project, -but pers not as much as some critics have
argued. Thus most pulpwood is obtained from distant Kolar and Bangalore disticts, with hauls of
250 to 300 kmn, whereas those obained from areas near the paper mills are used for cash and food
crops which bring higher returns than Eucalyptus. Planters have responded to the industral
demand for Eucalyptus according to local growing conditons, labour availbity and the incendves
available for different land uses, and not to presswe from industry wishing to reduce its tansort
costs. Nonetheless, the prices paid by the pulp and paper industry reflect industial polcies which
puct such industries and which may result mn higher input prices. By disributing fre seedlings
for inustrial woodlot planting 1, the prqject inadveently bidized the pulp and paper industry.
1   ThiM hppmd pul becoa of poLl cwmidions and pwty due to KSPD officia luca
-owlbsandig- pee8t wih de Bak to pem seoens at each exteasi



S
5.4       Vllage Fuelwood  Supply. The proectwaspredicated on the notonthat by
inclAng local supplies of blotass, rual access to felwood would necessarily improve Ths
assumption can be faulted on seveal accounts Flrst, villagers by and large do not purchase their
fuciwood. Cocing energy needs an still met from biomass gathered frey, and when one item
becomes scu~ such as fuelwood, it is replaced by another souse of energy such as cp resdues
or dung (with obvious consequences for soil fertility). Consequendy, except in urban and semi-
urban areas, there is litte market demand for fuelwood. The SAR recognized this and proposed
that up to two-thidrs of community     harvests would be auctioned to traders supplying
urban and semi-urban avas, and not be ined in the commnities where the plantadons would be
situatd. This does ltde however to increas local supplies of forest products, which was a stated
objwetie of    project. Second, the existece of a fuelwood shortage is not always perceived by
individual villages, even though evidence exists that overall forest cover is being deplet
SuppLies are adequate in some communities because of plentiful cuttings fiom coconut, and in
other areas, Prosopis jk7Wfra has been planted or has spread natally aer being mnoducd into
Bellary District twenty years ago. The advent of copious supplies ofProsopis, despite its being
cnsidred a mace by some, has cleady been an mportan development for fuelwood supply.
Ironicaly, its spread has occurred side-by-side with the project's acdvities, and has in all
lkelihodredwced the need for the project m some areas. However, the potental for promoting
Prosopis under the aegis of the project was nevreaized. Third,   pulas bythe rich of
te free seedling supply should have been foreseen, but were not. Rich farers sent others to
colect seelings for them while others on-sold the seedlings. Fourth, the landless have only
imited areas to plant. Fifth, counit planis took place on land which were thought to be
unused: in fact they were used, in partcu  by the weaker sections, and planting this land
increased the an4=     of the local vilagers to the project.
5.5       All of the above points would have been fairly obvious if adequate sector work,
including socio-eonmic studies, had been done prior to the project's initaon. A Wood Balance
Study, proposed at the time of apprisal and agreed to during   ject negodations, was not
completed until 1987. Available far too late, the study consdered only the demnd side and was far
too  nral to have hadmuch applaion to the project area; nonewhless, it tended to support the
on that the fuwood shotage may be a more site-specific problem than previously realized.
5.6       The Reliance on Block Plantations. The SAR indicated that the project's
objectives would be met through "plantations located throughout the Ste." Aroforestry, which
can be defined as the planting o trees in association with cropping rather tan m place of it, was
not exlicitly included in the project's design, although some of the recommended species are more
Commonly associated with agofoestraer than with block plantings. Since smaller farms are
constained from planting in blocks by landholding size, the concentmion on promoting block
plantations limited their particpation, which had been targeted in the project's objectives.
block plantations was also criticised for displacing food crops d-farm labour, but
these complaints were not always well-founded 1. Some farmers did plant their seedlings along
bunds, randomly within fields, and around their houses, but theae are widely held beliefs that aU
trees compete with crops and reduce yields and this discourages such practices. Consequently,
1   The oss of food poducton wa emned by vaious supevisin tems and it was concded dta most
cropped land that was atd  trees was of low pocdt and tha falling net retums from dylaad
fafmmg in thse -a was euaging farmes to seel altemative land u. While block plions do
displce fam  pm     his view ignores tbe prvag labow market dynamics which may lead
lanw   o   sw e    lower labour intasity land ses in  po  to labour avilaiqt. wages and persond
ccbmt_e.



6
without including agrofrestry in the pect's design, effor  to dispel tis notio and to introduce
cp-triendly te under the xproj  were minl
6+ Project Implementation
6.1       The Pace of ImplementatIon. Hiring of staff, purchasing of vehicles and
construction of civil Wo     roceded slowly in the projc's early years. In contras, plantaion
ltadvanced ra y bcs resources W                readyinplace andbecauseof there
ease ofimplntion. In addition, the project provided retroacdtve financing of up to US$2.7
million for thecontinuation of plandng and nursery production which were well underway prior to
1983. Delays in sanoning staff   ions and a decision to eliminate the purchase of motorcycles
and bicycls for Range Forest Officers (RFOs) and extension wokerwmoivato, pariay explain
thle slow pace of impleentadon in ealy years 1. Mme number of sancdoned positions evenuly
reached 2,814, or 62 perent of the SAR target, of which 96 percent were filled. Most of the
shortfall was due to a failure to recruit motivators - only 1,500 were sanctioned of a total SAR
taet of 3,000 2. A shrtage of trned fOresters also made it difficUlt to fill the forester posidons,
and this was furr  liedby a ban on hiring of foresters after 1988/89.
6.2       Implementation  Support  Issues. Implementation support consisted of
monitoring and evaluaton, rsewach, training, extension and publicty activities. Taken together,
these project acives were particularly weak, despite frequent comment by monitorng and
supervision missions. Publicadon of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was delayed until
Deember 1986, leaving an infoation gap for those impmndting the project A Monitoring and
Evalui  (M&E) Cell was never consttuted wiin the project Isead, the M&E cell was created
in 1986 under the diret control of the Principal Conservator to service the entre Foestry
Deprmet As a result, few studies were done of relvane to the project Record keeping was
sporadic at the distict and Circle levels, so that many reports and statistics were not prerly
rnsmitted to headquarters in Bangalore. Similar problems occurred with research, despite the
Bank's urging fom early on. A reseach manual was evenualy produced in 1988, but was never
seriously followed. Research conducted incled the following: (a) the suitability of species for
vwuious plntation models; (b) the performance of tal plants; (c) the opdmal trenh and pit size; (d)
graftng tchniques and (e) nursery techniques. However, only general qualitaive rests wer
aailable at the  inaon    he project R ach funded by the project and conducted at the
Univsity of Agricultural Scie   exand seed quality and tree-food crop cmptition amongst
agrofrestry Tpecie his work was found to be both intesino and well done. A total of 7,415
KSFD staf, NGO members, Mandal Panchayat representatives, teachers, students, nursery
operatos, farmers and odrs  ved project-fued dtraining. Of tis total, 43 percent were non-
projectrecipients - a surprisingly high figure given the great need within the project itself. Traning
was provided to higher gade staff but not tothe lower klvel field staff (Rangrs and below) who
had to implemet tie project From 1987 onwards, two new training facilies becam  available,
allowing more regular courses. However, these facilities were nevr adequate for the level of
training actiy envisioned in the SAR. For example, motivators were t   e   2 to 3 weeks of
iitial taining followed by montdly refresher courses. In practce, they attended only a single 3-
1   According to the KSD. RfOs were acorqed to purch  their own vcles and ten receive a mileage
aowane for govermonat travel, in lieu of motorcycle purchases
2    Moivaos were employed part-time ially, but later they sogt full-time goverment jobs which
prmpted the KSFD to give up furt  recruitmentL Of the 1,473 motivators actuly anpoyed at the
project closing date, 275 were fean. At neady 19%, the mbde of faeale modvans ame close to
eachng the pojecs targt of 20%. Social forestry may have been more succssfu if te prpotion of
women motatrs had been hie.



7
day corse and no formal refsher courses. Despite these problems, traiing was one of the better
support activities.
6.3       Under the tension apprah proposed in the SAR. subject matter specialis 1n s
forest   wae to be trained to backup the existing agricultural extensionists. This approach was
never           formally, =toug informl contacts condnue to occur between KSFD field
staff and agricultal extension workers. Part of the problem was an unwil_inpess by dhe
Agricultue Da nt staff to promote what they viewed as an activity which displaced annual
cropping. Many KSFD staff were unaware of agroforestry's pontial ompatibility with
cppig,andthesemisnceptions were never addressed. Instead, the KSFD chose to develop its
own  nsion apprach by convering forest guards into extensionists. TIe 350 fors ectnsion
workers (FEW) were reqired to supenrise neary 1,500 motivators, as wcl as perform other
activites. In thoy the duties at the two levels overlapped enormously, but in pracdoe the FEWs
were often assigned non-extension duties, such as supeion of community plantings and
nurseries. Motivators faced an array of constraints in performing their dudes: pay was low and
neither transport allowances nor bicycls were provided, despite the fiacthat some modvators bad
to service up to 54 villages. Nonetheless, the motivators were cdited on a nuraber of occasions
with generating inmreased inrest in te plnting.
6.4       Publicity actvies included the production of posters, videos and pamphlets, and the
organizadon of mass meetings. The latter comprised 1,952 contact meetings involving
headquarters staff during 1986-92, 807 of which took place wihn the Bangalore Circle area
(Bangalore Rural, TuIbkur and Kolar Districts). Printed and film publicity materials, while being
of some usefulness, were devoted mostly to the promotion of tree planting, especialy among
lietes, consequently they were of limited use to illiterate farners.
6.5       Technical Aspects. Plantations were enerally well established under the project:
ex post research by the indim u Inste of Pubic Opimon (iP) i   that the Ka     Social
Foresty pl        had the highest survival rate of the S different stae projects examined. For
farm f y, the ove  survival rate for the period 1983/84 to 1987/88 was 67 percent. As might
be expectd, thifige is somewhat lower than dte 82 percent survival rate esmated for block and
stip plnations. Survival rates are surprsingly good in light of concems expressed by vwarious
supervision mins about sedling qulity 1. Howev, survival rates gve no indion of dte
raie of growth, and from  med fild data, grwt rates (or at least stand7ng stocks)  pear lower
than those anticipad at appaisal Seveal factors may acount for this. For instance, the SAR
recommended blsck plantation densities of 5,000 teestha, which was probably too high, except
for prduction of a few specific products. The KSFD reduced the density early in the project to
between 1600 and2000 trees/fa, but even this would be high where the sowing of fodder grasses
or the planting of fuit trees was to be undertaken. A second factor is want of silvicumal
management oPplantatons, about which more has been said later. A third factor is pilferage fum
community plantations, which has rsuted in substantially reduced stading stocks at some sites.
Finally, p and disease problems have hindered the growth of some species such as Leucaea
6.6       Seedlings at block plantaions wreplanted in 4 m x 0.4S m x 0.45 m trenches and
trench size was a matter of contention betwen the Bank and the KSFD, with the KSFD  pF ng
a 45 cm trench to the SAR's rmended 30 cm trench The use of the 45 cm trench increased the
estalishmuntoost of the blockplantations by approximately 25 percent. Sowing of various native
1   Seedlng quaity conens prtially std from the inadequae supply of se  from potentiay desibe
"pl" trees, 'soed stad, 'd poduction areas' r 'clonal sed orchads'  a de spply of bete
quality     was  fficienw for ptg needs.



8
and eotc species an the mounds creaod by rench excavadon was a practioo caried on  ughout
tdh proect. Although t  technique was atracve ecogically, surviva  teswee poor orwnil, h
some cases, bec     of trapling and shading out. This technique ad other  asociatd
with trenching goenery worsened rather han improved plantaton economics. The Bank
supervision missions in the last two years of the project advocated a vegeive conservation
echnology which nvolved digging a contour vditch and estblishment of a hedge row with
vetiver grass and shrubs in the ditch, but this was not implemented evaen ona tdial basis.
6.7       Beore launching of the p¢oject, there was no convincing scienfic evidence of te
advse effect ofEucalps. he SAR threoe proposed a species mix donted by Ewaypts
tredcrU, but this was eventuy modified in die fae of the sn crtism noted above. Some
argue that the KSFD over-reacted to the cridcisms by limiting the  rtion of Eucalyptus
seedlings that could be raised In Govenment and kissan nureris to oly 15 pexcent. In the, fit
year of planting, 1983-84, Eucalypts species repreented from 17.5 pevoent to 59.5 percent of
no-faina fsry plantings, dependng pon plnting modeL By te final year of he prqject, 1991-
92, Eucalyptus had declined to a mimum  of 3 percent of the species mix for any one png
modeL Under farm foresty, Eucalyms was to consttute 92 percent of the seedling
however, by 1991-92 the shae of Eucalypts had declined to no more than 17 perent. OveraL,
Eucalypas was estimated to teprsent 34 percent of the seedlings aised under the prject.
6.8       Planning and Community Participation. Despite the emphads in the Project
Agtement on consultaion with communtes concering species selection and to ensum there wer
no adverse impacts on fodder supplies frmplan s td  on gomal lands, the project wen
ahead in its ealy years with Iy t community constation. On C&D lands, which villgr
aY diff ented &om goImal lands in tm of usage, the Agreement was less stingent, and the
KSM    was essentially free to plant whatever and wherever they wanted. The potential for
communtyparticipation Improvedmarkedly with the inutducto of microplanning in 1986. Ths
technique, which was already in use elsewhere in India, involves pepaaon of a Vilp Profile
covering demographics, landholding and other relevant statistics, followed by interviews with
representative famiies to determine their perceptions and needs relaig to frsy. Fom these
intervnews a draft plan is formulated by KSFD staT and modfied afer CO  discussions.
However, the promise of roplaning was never realized and in the projects latter years
enthusiasm waned and fewer microplans were completed. In addition, the quality of later
tuicroplaning wss clearly lower than initial efforts and many wer actually undertken after
plantingewas oletd. I;ming dificulties with the selecdon andpproval of target vilages at the
potical level were party to blae for the low number of usefi moplans completed, but many
couldhave been initatd    to formal apoval being received.
6.9       Litte planing for the manag t of those planatons alread establshed was done
pgiorto 1991, even dough some plans were by te at least 7 years old. By June 1992, only
manage t ps fr abwt   com         is (only  peent of ote total) have been c ed,
out of the 3,600 communities requiring them. Those  ed  appear to have been well thought
out, reftectin th dedication of project field staff androvements in consulat   VillageFrest
Commiees (VCs) dth have been set up in these 100 cmn     are key elements m  pantatin
planning, as they serve as a focal group for community discussions and deci
making. Because the management of plantations was no longer the KSs reosibiity afer the
first tree yea, ivicl ptionslke thinning, pruning or lopping, coppicng and follow-up
muple-shoot cuttdng wer larely negc   In        harvests could have provided a flow of
prducts as incentivestotheuser om estop die planinL  A nnaemntp tannn
workshop funded by ODA in Septmber 1991, has alsobeen afaor ni   g to this success
However, an ODA evaluaion ndicates that many VFCs were formed in response to project
cnditinlity and did not reflect a re desire by villagers to partcipate. Furthmore, women



9
membes were ofn spoken for by male rlatives, and the commiees wen usualy dominated by
the panchaya.  Whle prepartion of such a large number of management plans would be tm
consuming, interim guidelines on siictal aspectu of plion management and a back-up
acti  pla fr t       few yeas are needed
6.10      At   MidW-term Review (MMR) in 1986, dte project's evalua  noted the absence of
NGO ptcipatdon in the project in contrast, socid foesy projects elsewhere in India have used
NOOs as effective hnkages between the Forestry Deparmet and communities. That NGO
involvemnt was not envisioned in the SAR was probably a shartoming in project design. The
Indian Forestry Service has a long tradition of keeping people out of forests, and although a
chage in focus has been an imorant element in Indian social forestry, the expectation dta
Forestry Depq_nts could make such a tansiton so quicky was uealistic.  fact, the KSFD
has made sts in this directon, despite a semingrle to wo  on a sigificant scale with
NGOs. KSFD feels that hre ae few NGOs with estished credentals with te local pop
and proven coammt   to social fomy. This attitude derives. pady fim soe significant NGO
failurs at establishing plantations under the project Nevertheless, NGOs coud have played a
more useful rle in promodng paricipaton and bridgig the guf between the KSFD and the
cmmunities, although this may have required drtprojct s   and ting.
6.11      Seedling Production and Distribution. The eentrl mechanism for production
and distibuton of seedlings was the use of Kissan or "famer" nurseries set up with the assistance
of the project. Project seeling production data showing the importance of Kissans in seeding
producton are presented below.
Seedlng Prodwctio  by Type of Nursery (millions)
-  artther   -                       otal
No._  %         j       %  -      o._ %       o.
1983J84                     3        .2      7        -   w       7.6     100
IS            32.     S2~   "03            -     -          53.0    t100
198S     /       86 15.9   20                       - -   -___78.79    100
1987/889.    59                5.3              S3_          83 4.   100O
19886   21.3   71   _ 7.7  -S   1.2          0,2      100
198919            41.3. 73         119      !1      3.0    S _    6.2_ 100
199QI!>1   _~ IS.9            11.6         -   1*2      -   !.7      100
991            -2.0   S9     1L          -      1.6   S~   3.8-  100
Total:            233. 52         196.9     4       16.3    -   h6.2    c0
6.12      Kissan operaors were initaly selcted by project staff and we poided with poly
bags, seeds and other inputs free of ae. They w   en  pced to sellthe  seedingsback t
the govrnme  at a fixed       and  ay the cost of inputs from the proceeds. Later dons
inclued an attempt to get issan opators to sel seedings to private individuals, but a number of
bariers prevented this from woking: (a) nursery operatrs we  required to pice at or above the
established goe   wthih denied them fth oprit to take advage of costs which
werlower tm those  oarment nueries; (b) the genalavilaityoffe seligs,eidther
legitimately or clandesdnely, hidered the development of dem d for piced seedlings (c) the
willingness of the govemment to purvhase seelings at fixed prices mae it too easy for Kiz-an
oprators to ignore m   t development; and (d) changes occurred in the selection of Kissan
operats (trmed "beefiiares") which favoured p  alcta oe  tehnical ones. In the end,



10
oly lited private market development occurrd and little revenue was earned from seedling
sales. At poct closing the fate of project-supported Kissan nurseries was unclear, although there
was evidence ofte develpmtof off-shoot independent nurseries, including some operated by
women 1,
6.13      The project was to hand out to individuals a limited number of free seedlings, as
dictated in the SA  These limts per individual as actaly implemented, and as indicated in the
SAR, are shown below.
Free Seedling Distribution Limits (per person)
erroposed  (SAR)  Seedl gActual Seedling Limit
imit                     _
984                .50                          1  .50
1985/86            1750                        1.SO_
750            -1.i0(750 officialy, but no iniuene
1987288            r750                          750
989      _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _    ~~~~~~250
1990s1              ________________             250 (-.except Banniore and Kola)
991_92                                           250
i992____93_____________ s_ 50 (except 3 commeri secies)
6.14      Poblems developed with free seeding distribution limits because of differing views
Of the project's purpose. The Bank saw the project as augmenting biomass availablity for
subsistence uses m rural areas, coupled with privaw sector development in the production and
maketing of seedlings. Consequendy, the Bank pushed for ever lower free seedling limits, despite
a covenant that only required the KSFD to reduce the limit to 750 seedlings by 1985/86 (which
was nonetheless missed by two years). In contrast, dte KSFD saw the project's more i t
funtions as increasmg tree cover and providing improved income possibilties for landowners,
and therefoe preferehigh or even no limits on free seedling distribution.
7. The Role of Government Polidies
7.1        Several govenment polcies had an adverse impact on the project, yet wer essentily
outide its control:
(a)    Decentralation of Local Governance. Juisdtion over a number of
sma       was decentd to district level Z7l;a Parishads and subdstrict
Mandal Panchayats in 1987/88. The Mandal Panchayats whose jurisdiction
covered up to 15 or 20 villages, replaced the individual Village Panchayats.
Forestry responbilities at the Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) lvel
and below were handed over to the Zilla Parishads, while the higher KSFD
management was relegated to plaving a supportng role. In reality, DCFs now
serve two masters leading to delays and comlcations. The changes iniialy
1 The Go'kevanmt ioned an order In 1991 camelig al Ki= numeies aed und a separat progra,
but wany dsuicu aqer to have ied dlas order f pjoct-suppoed Kissan nurseries as weL altough
tdere ws an agre_mau with the Bank to contue to pmote suh nurseries at the tme of the dird and last
e _auson of tho projeci



11
held some promise of greater accountabilit and participation at the distict
level, but instead some of the ZSlla Parishads and Mandal Panchayat bave
inoduced political consideons into the selecdon of Kisan beneficiares
and candidate villages for woodlot development
(b)    Interdepartmental Land  Transfers. The C&D class wastelands
available to the KSFJD for use in the project were orinylands under the
control of the Reeue Dement. The transfer of tihese 1.8 million acrs
(0.8 miILion ha) to the KSFDI was begun in 1979 under a govenmet order to
promote their rehabilitation. In 1991 the GOK, under pressure to provide
land to the landless and to regulaize exisdng encroachments, authorzed the
resumption of 1.5 million acres (0.6 milion ha) to Revenue De
contrl, seriously reducing the amount of land available for social foy
plantations.
(c)    Control of Wood Product Marketing. The cutdng, sale and t t
of wood products in Karnataka is stricdy regulated by govnment rdes and
Acts which detemine which species can be cut (even on pxivate lands), at
what prices wood products can be sold (in some cases), and under what
conditions theycan be transportedoutside the vilage. Theree Prservation
Act prohibits cuttng of all but 11 e  species on both public and private
lands, except for small quantites deemed to be for personal use only.'
Although such a law is difficult to enforce, famers are liable to avoid tree
planting altogether rather than risk a run-in with the law. Govemment
inistered prices or "seipgorage" rates are applied to produce harvested
from goverment plantatons or sold through government wood depots.
Although marketpres arefree to find their own  vl, they are undoubtedly
influencedby sales ofprode frm govemment lands. Markedng of wood
roc    is  er constained b transport restictions, as set out in the
nat"  a Forest Produce Transit Rules. In effect, wood prducts cannot be
transorted outside the village  p   without ap     requtng payment of
Rs.5 pe truckload, except headloads of small   rfuelwood (one every
24 hours), twip ad leaves, and Euca!yps and Cas ana logs, for which a
recent ex on has been made in Kolar and Tu1kur Districts. This rue
effectively gives the KSFD control over most movement of wood products,
and while it may be necessary for the control of illicit ade, the inconvenienc
of acquiring a penmt significandy discourages legitimate conmrdal tiade in
wood producs
8. Project Achievements
8.1       Physical Targets. The targets set for the project were expressed as hectares
planted or seedlings distrbuted, an approach that may have been less suitable than numbers of
beneficiaries. Nonetheless, measured on the basis of these targets, as adjusted at the mid-term
review in 1986 and later when exteons were granted, the project was a success 2. Initially,
The 11 spcie emptd fXm t Act a Cmuarna Cocomut Eytun Euaypt. Olyncdia, Hope&
wigtia Prosopis, Rubber, Se_sania, Silver Oak and Le_cma
2   Te Develpnt Cedit AgMe was amendedi Mc 1991 to show a fam feyplg target of
221.500 ha.  s believed dais fig  ws cculbwd by dividit  revised planting dest
_, mdadonof 2500 eosh into tbh revised sedl _diim  taget of 553 million



12
community woodlot planting was to emphasize gomal lands, which were under village
anagem,n~ as opposed to the C&D wasteands, which were under KSFD control However, the
KSFD found it easier to plant on land under its own control, and uldmately C&D plantings
exceed   gomal by 20 peet. In pracdce, villagers did not appear to differendate between the two
management regimes, sice botL rersented common lands used mainly for gazing. fuelwood
coleton and soi exvato  Plantng tget and reported achievements are shown in the table
below.
Puati  and SeedUng Targets and Achievements (ha)
ZARGE1                    
ctual    AC  as %
I___________  Planted   Eof  xtension
Revlsed evised
SAR     MTR    Exteslon              I
W  c ands              -      20.6n M21,       1          26.10_
ragikfoloQo          3.000  s~~~1.000    1 16.SO   6.67   1
Canalaadlsaskdes            400      ,0      101         5.787 
122.     1
to~149000 151,500   500    63.000     2
ipaimmsav (mBilo of !Lamm^                                  509-3S7 9
PI rnis figwe is an os_>a a-t 2S5C
6ediu ha20% rcentand 20% wa                     _        , 
8.2       These achiem   shoul be regaded as idicAve for the foUowing reasons. It is
dificul to verify de figures, when the poject did not include mapping or aia surveyiag of dte
planted areas and the ea of fam foresy is only an estimate based on the number of seedings
distritd to famers There is also some discrepcy in the records regarxding seedling poducti
and distribution. For examle project recors indicate a total distribution of some  600 
edlings - 507 million for farm forestry and 90 million for plantations, whilst only some 446
million seedlings wee reportedly prduced between 1983/84 and 1991192. However, fied
observations suggst that areas repored as planed resent a reasonable estimate of areas actually
8.3       Pro3ect Beneficiaries. Under the projec's community pltion acdviies, 3,627
villages b td, each one havng plaed an avge of 113 ha of block andor stip plantations.
Accuding to the SAR, beneft were to be distributed so as to: (a) help out the rural poor, (b)
encourage comunity participationand promot further plantings; (c) pvide resources to village
Panayat for "general development" wort; and (d) help KSFD recover a portion of coss This
was to be done via a benefit-shng mechanm to be agreed upon between the Bank and KSPD
before the end of 1984, but nothing was implemented by the KSFD until 1986, and even then it
appliedonly tto  ocplanns (notstrip pltions).  he g    ment der issued could not be
effectily implementedfor want of an action plan or guidelines for silviculurl uteatme   and
until m   ent planning began in eanest in 1991.
8.4       Under the 1986 government order, direct wood benefits accue localy via: (a) free
access to lop and top, frut andfodder, (b) preferential access to harvested wood for the poor at no
charge or at conession rates; and (c) sale of the remaining produce at subsidized rates to
villagers-at-large. On  one pn     has so far been marvested under an nt plan (seva
others have been cut by the loca MadalPanchyat after      was handed over from the
KSFD) and local benefits the conisted of the free distribution of a share of produce to those



13
paud "as disadvautaged. There were no subsdied sals to other members of dhe village and
instead, the bulk of the produce was aucdoned to outsldn buyrs A nww government orTer has
been under discuson for some time. It is intended ta tds order Siould mroe on th 1986 one
by  pading aovrage to strip plantadons, by givn greater remgonsibii to VFCs, and by
increasing coanitments for reinvestment in existing  'new plantaioL
8.5       Fumes conceriing the number and type of beneficiaies under farm forestry were
compiled amully by the project although no foral targets were set in the SAR These sastics
are prestd below.
8.6       The data indicae seedlings distibuted and the  of individuals receivn them -
but not whether thes sam  individuals wac y planted the seedling they receiveMdTs is an
imotantpont since controversy arose during the~ project over the dgree to which smaller and
marginal arme  and the landless were benefting. Thes data sugges they were. However. the
results from the project-funded evuaton srey   nerby the Uvermty of Mys,
indicated below for Belgam  disttict (one of the 12 prioiiuy disticts covered by the prjet), show
that larger famers have clearly benefitted more than smaller famrs, when this is viewed on a
"seedlings planted" basis.
PoJ. 3.Mday _WUMk *M i'ojad Rauids anvam SkM, Bdpum DWaf
i  tUh"}      1l      ~~~~~6 115    Bus.
i  iis >1 iie                                          Es 15   -1 32 I m  i
8.7       That such a dicrpancy between project and survey data should exist is not
surprising, as it was common knowledQe among project field staff that large farmers were
crcumventing limits on the distributon of free   dlingsby ecruiting odts to fetch seedlings on
their behalf. In fact, the data show that the nb  of seedlings planted closely coiTelates with
landholding size districtwise. Further, it would be almost isible for the average landess
beneficiary to plant an average of 201 seedlings (or 964 in Bel dun distnct) around a family
compound, although emors in classfying landowners were noted m early project years. Random
checks by Univerity of Ag  ccul ia Saences staff indicated that amongst s   landholders,
standing trees represented on average only 30 to 40 percent of the number of seedings obtained
fm the nurery by tbe landholer, as indated in project records is evide   supprts
the conclusion dtat many seedlings were either wasted or that larger farmers may have benefitted



14
much moe under the fam fostiy component {han is ind  by project records& The prbem
was           by the KSFD Indecision to price  gs.
8.8       Finanl and Economic Results. Based on rvised targets it is esdmaed that
the projet will produce between 9 and 10 mion tonnes of fuedwood, pulpwood, timber and
bamboo, as well as nearly 700,000 tonnes of fodder, and over 7 million tonces of fruit.
Unertainty regading some ofe seedig producton figures makes dtese esmates, and in tum
those of dte rvised f -acl and economic c      somewhat speculadtve. Financi rates of
return (IRR) calculated at apraialrngd from 5.1 Percent to 15.7 pcnt for the vaious phlning
models involving com nty la. Farm forestry showed IRRs fiom 18.8 percent to 25.9 percent
while overal, the project was expected to show a 22 perent economic rate of return (ERR).
Revised calcations indicae somewhat lower Valudes - plantng models yield IRRs of 3.4 pecnt
to 12.6 percet and the project ERR is esdmated at 16.9 percent 1. All prices and costs used in he
updated estias were expressed in 1991/92 Rupees and a 30 yearprojeut life was considered.
C:osts  curd after project closing were estimted by aplying approprie percentage rates to
project expenditues, and by takdng account of plantadon main e costs. Land o
costs we    d     by allowing for an average annual rettun of Rs. 100/ha forazng Iaid
Rs. 1,M00   for ronds (farm frestry), with de laner reduced to Rs.600ha in the cacu
to accouau for fallow and non-productive lands taken up by the project 2. The revised rates of
return are lower for a number of reasons: (a) the SAR used maret prices rather than snage
values in calting returns, without allowing for harvesting an marketing costs; (b) pilfeing and
lower growth and mvva rtes (the laer concerns farm fowstry only) have reduced yields from
appaisal expecaions; (c) the net impact on cropping and grzing is likely to be higher than
estimatd earlier, and (d) project costs in Rupee terms were much higher than anticipated.
Offseting these dampening influences on financial and economic viability were lower costs
associaed with reduced plandng densities and a much greater emphasis on fruit trees, which
generate subs     net revenues.
9. Project SsWtnability
9.1       Sustainaiit wil be a critical issue for this project Since so much attention was paid
o planing targets, and so litde to participation, support and feedback acdvities, there are serious
doubts concrng the fuue magemen and regeneration of xisting comni ty plantatios For
(a)    Many individuals see the community woodlots as occupying land beter
suited to cultivation by the landless, and some commu'inites have noted a
worning shorage of fodder, afrplanting trees on thercomon lands. In
generl, villages still see the woolt as pubic wrs  proetsrterta
viewing them as community assets that they could manage, maintain and
benefit from themselves.
(b)    M       Panchayats do not exhibit a great deal of interest in assuming the
responsibility for mging community plantations. They lack both the
technical know-how and the resources, and for these reasons they have
1 The -sdmazd project ERR includes u beges weas w h  we not incld in doe ndd
plning modes  al
2   Smvey s canied our by de Univeiy of Agicukal Sciences at Bdangae ncaed  a sveage of
62% of lnd ue pdvave block plaai  had been peviuy cropped



1S
tended to harvest some plantatons under their control prematurely and
without coiderain of tfe user communies' needs
(c)    Ihe numberf managemntfpans yet tbe prepared is daunting - more than
3,500 are sdll required within the next few years. The staff r es aloe
needed for the task are unlily to be available, yet without    nt pls
in place, communities may not see the benefits they were pomised, an
inte   in subsequent _planing may wane. KSFD has not looked iso ts
aspect, nor has decided on issuing a general guideline for technical
management and a time-bound acdon plan for Impem ion cowing all the
platatons of the pojet
9.2       This said, there are several encouraging signs: sva des have expssed
Intest in locating woodlots in their areas, and private ndependent nurseries have apped in a
few disis, pataly in response to the projei
9.3       Concernig farm forestry, attts to price seedln have largely failed. Fars are
not well infonnd of altenatves to Eucatyptf, which is sdll the most readily marketable crop.
And many continue to see trees as competing with crops. Part of this is due to lack of sutabe
alenative modes and weak extension efforts. Nonetheless, industril markets are well developed
and accessible to Wger plantadon owners, with pulp and paper mills and tile factories now
Supplying seedlings at discoued mes to poteial wppliers of industrial wood, ind ndy of
the KSFD.
9.4       Additional issues rlating to susalnability inlude the posbl  of ma  satwadon,
a problem experienced in other staes which have sponsoed social forestry p cts. Little
assessment of the project's impact on price levels has been done, and no one has considered the
HiWy,im    nce the more dthn 160,000 ha planted unde the project reach harvesting age. Ihere
are also some concerns as to the goverment revenue implications of the project. The one
plantation so far harvested gendrevenues of Rs.23,615, net of harvesting costs buti g
taxs, which is insent to cover the est   ent costs inculTed in 1985 of apFximatey
Rs.140,000 1. Even if only tbe IDA-financed porion of cost is consdered (this is 48 percent of
total costs), the rvenue generated was only one thil the amount needed.
10. Institutional Performance
10.1      The Bank and ODA. Problems in the project's design led to criticism from naonal
and internatonal environmental groups. Perhaps these issues could have been avoided if
addional sector work had been undraken pnor to apprdsaL While the Bank replied in wrtten
form to th complaints, there was ardy a strong sponse in terms of project managemnt It was
ODA, rather than the Bank, which independently iniated reseah into the e I   es of
Eucalfflu. The Bank made atemps to involve NGOs in the project, some of whom were the
projects most vocal critics. For example, at the mid-tem review it was recommended that
meedngs take place been the KSFD and local NGOs, and later NMOs were invited to participate
in the monitonng mission of March 1989. Nonetheless, NGO support for the prcct was never
obained, and in hindsight, a much greater effort was pobably needed. Relaonships witi ODA
andthe KSFD were codal, but there wee severad sticking poimts. ODAhad ua
with the Bank and inidaly agreed with joint project goals. However, ODA modified its project
objectives after the mid-term review and focussed heaily on instuional changes. Several po
1   Ts lons locned im Dhawar dist and ooiswed of 35 ha of Lwaeaa kwcocehala, pbaned at a
dsity of 2000 tees/a. Pilfeage was a major problem and accont for dhe low yields at hvesti&



16
of discussion betweent  Bank and he KSFD  elaing to policy issues recurrd many time The
main isues includec (a) the liits to the disibution of fie seedlings; (b) thedevp t of the
Kis  nursees; and (c) to issuance of benefitishing ordem Despite   dialogue,these
pois weranot all fly resolved to dte Bak 's 
1@.2      Supevsion missions were geneally dominftd by ODA staff, pariuly duig the
fIrstS years of the poct when a number of the misionswmounted were ODA led.    s g d
some concer wihin the Bank that its own preoives were being neglected. However, KFD
staff were pardcularly gpate  for the technic a  provded by the ODA teams In total 12
iuperioion missions were mountd, averaging 1.33 per year, and an ag  of 10 staff weeks
wme usod annuallyfor this purpose. Ts may have been an n ntm        t of resources
the contrversial nate of the project Nevertheless, suervision eports and especialY the
documents prepred by the monitoring missions and the MI   Review team were useful and
insg l,although thesedidnot alwaysreflecthte degree of conrversy surounding the project
There were also occasial itancs of misin aton: for example, according to the KSFD, a
monitrg and evaluation cell was never consdtuted within the prmjec yet it was indiatd ta the
Departmnt was in ful cowLnce with this covenant. Superin reports benefitted from staff
coninity doughout the prqject , but especially in later Bank-led missions.
10.3      The KSFD. On the basis of pvious poject   eince, the SAR rcoizd  the
risk inherent in designadin the KSFD as implementing agency. While the SAR concenton
p ble delays in the posning off sand       in      ure, to ffis s     have been d
e risk associated with the      shift n outook required of the KSFD. Nonetheless, there
Was progess in this area, as evidenced by the willingness of some field staff to undertake
participatory planning work, and the emphasis on community involvement in a new project
proposal prepared by the Departn   Major areas of weakness in pfmance concerned
compliance with covenants, record  epingandsingissues. Mny Of         of on-going
discussion between the Bank and the KSFD were covered by covenants, and sevel were
comed with late, otrs were only weaIky complied with or were eventuy assessed as no
losnger relevant For example, an int n    s         cmttee was esbed oarly on, as
, but late languishd o the lea that responsibility rested with the Mand Panchayas
Such a co     e could have helped foster greater tes between the KSFID and the A
Deparmnt conceming extension and agroforestry. Complicatig all aspect of prect
manapment, including the project completion evaluation, was a weak system futraittig
statistics and douments fim the field and for fling at headqu
10.4      Recrume  of staff was slow initally and never reached  e d    levels, but
mre importanty, staff were shifted to different positions at an alrming rat. The Social F y
Wimg was viewed as similar to the other departmental wings, so that staf were rtely
tansfered to the proect with idte or no trning in social foestry. Some senior staff did receive
verseas tining rduough the project but at least in two cases, individuals were moved to a
different wing within 9 months of completing the training. Without adheing to some criteia in
recruing for mid-level posidons, the proet suffered, since staff tained in conventiond  ftry
techniques are not necessarily well-suied to acdvities such as ipatoy planing. Those staff
which were most appropriate for social foresy ware inevitably relocated.
10.5      Disbursements. Fnancial issues were not a major problem, as reflected in the fl
compliance" designation accorded to the relevant covenants. Statements of Expenditue (SOEs)
were oc nlly late, but after a suspension of dis nts from 01 October 1986 to 03 March
1987, the situadon mved. A few problems were created by the change in the system of local
govemnance in 1987/88, which shifed some financial reporting responsibilides to the Zilla
Parishads.



17
10.6      Disb ents on payrols, puchasing and civil works followed a preditable patten:
low expenditures inidally, followed by a bunching of expenditure acdvity during the final
xension periods. More than 50 perentof allcil w     consuction took plce di   the final
year of the project, indicating a desire to "use up. pro3ect funds before they were lost. Cost
overuns in Rupee terms, based on SAR expenmture esmates, ran from 20 percent to 123
percent, with payrolls showing the greatest gap. Tle rasons for these overuns were t
ollowing: (a) the sgnificant devaluaton of the Rupee, which increased import costs; (b) a
substantivacrostheboard pay increase awarded to GOK staff during the early years of the
prject (c) higher inaon during the project years than andcipated in the SAR and (d) design
changs tot the plantig nmoes  which raised per hectare costs. Only combined training, reseach
an studies spendg was below the SAR te, and in this case, significantdy so 1.
10.7      Due to favorale exchange rate movem      and delays i  ent and hiring, a
sif    t unisbursed credit bala  remained at the end of the inid=al  year ptojec period. For
thiS reasnO, and to fulfil as yet unatined planting targets, the project was extended he  times,
venualy lengthening de projwect fe frm 5 years to 8 years and 3 months.
1L  Overall Fudinss and Leons Leamed
11.1      The Kamataka Socia Forstry Project is in some respects an unusual one in that
physical targets appear to have been met but the p   cannot relly be deemed a success. The
KFD wwas already Y acdve in platig gement lands and hading out slngS prior to te
project, and it could have carded on with this without the project's assistance. To an unfortunate
extent, the project expanded the scale of these activities ratherthan tl     significant changes
Inthe technical and social aspects of the Deatment's social forestry wo   The m    reasons for
this am  (a) faie to ppeciaethe magnitud of the change tat the Depant  was required to
Uml. frm a poicy body to a developmet agency; (b) trang of the lower evel field staff who
actuay had to implemnt the pr     was neglected, and; (c) high platng  rgs  udid most
availabe resoures and few were left to nurture cucial prject support units. As a result, the
envisaige socia benefits did not mialize while   pdontargets were lrely met. There
as little o    i for i    ed adjustments in spes mix and other rmatons, sine
most of t  proect's plandng was accopshed so ey. While such project phaing leads to
aouble conomics, it does not reult i an erience for the implementing agenc which is as
enriching as it could be. The lack of c         aon plantaon sitng, species selecdtn
and benefits sharing, especially in ealier year, furter limted the project's effectiveness by
engendring a pastive  tude towards community planions amongst villages Few wer willing
to underake any plantion work witho  being paid, for instance.
11.2      Ulmately, it could be that much of the wood habved fm   ommity plaons
wi be sold to traders for urban and industril use. Some, commuities haveresonded to this by
-  --mentplans aprovision forlocay needede t be c               d
withheir shareof theprocee. This may be a ludable devlopment In many cases, it has been
the less dv   who have fa    n    on property access to  ing ad pot l access to
encrhable land and have therefore bome the o uycosts  planon deve        et One
can questo whethw they wil benefit        iy fromtheproposed    Of these revenues,
as only a small number are  ikely to benefit dhcty from an incease in wood supply. To avoid this
Oly wo stude wen fAde d Wood Balne Study ad doe Evation of the Impaa of SocWi Pouy
in Kanatak cosang Rsl95.M2 and Rs229.OOO, respecvely. TMe Wood Balanc Std was allocaed
Rs mimo in dho SAR oost emt.



18
problem the projec should have been designed to more closely match its objectives (rumral self-
sufficency in fuelwood), or dse the objectives should have been statxd differently.
11.3      For siml pjects in the future, the following thoughts may be useful lessons from
the Kanatka experience:
(a)    Villages are more concweed with overall land use issues than with planting
trees alone. Projets should take this into account by stengthening u
microplannin and by recognizing that some counites may not wish to
have any    devoted solely to trees.
(b)    Project targets were denminated as physical areas to be planted and not as
beneficiaries. Defining targets in terms of beneficiaries, as defined by
landholding size, would ce  ger incentives for the project to meet its
socil objectives.
(c)    Industa forestry should not be confused with social forestry. Subsidizing
pulp and paper production hus wider implications and is not consisent with
what is usually understood by the concept of social forestry. Promodon of
chiefly industl speies (Le. Eucatypvs) shoduld be left mainly to the private
sector and project activities shou'Sl focus instead on extension and erch
(d)    The KSFJ demonstred that the Indian Forestry Service is cetay cpable
Of meetng planting targets. However, lower level field staff should have
been given intensiv training and KSFD could have benefitted from
assistance with the difficult task of involving people in planning and
management, sice there are many capable organiaions which speialize in
these activities. Support and tramining for NOOs should be an imprant
element in project desig, including a funding comtment which woud
bring these groups into the project itslf.
(e)    Priit l         for te project's actes were tgeted at dw disict vwel
at apprais. Subsequentdevelopments have shown that fuelwood shorta es
are much more nlocalzed than this, so that different citeria are requirto
assess need. Strong sector work prepared in advance of proje appraisal
could help identing these and other problems and lead tomore effective
solutions.
(f)    Reaching the smaller landholders and landless in significant numbers is not
possible if only block plantations are pmoted. ncoaging aroforesty is
critical, and this can only be achieved if (ii) adequatesresechIS carriedout
concerning no-competitve species, and (ii) farmers come to see trees as
p FetiW y comptil with cropping.
(g)    The were seveml instances of miundesings amongst co-financiers and
the implemening agency as to the purpose of the project, despite agreement
on the physical targets. A greater effort should be made to risit each
agency's project goals, since the emphasis may need to change as experien
is gainec



19
PART IL Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
Karnataka Forest Department gratefully acknowledges
the support, guidance and funding provided by the World
Bank/ODA for 'he execution and implementation of the Social
Forestry Project  between  the years  1983  to 1992.   The
project generated considerable rural employment and also
provided   intellectual   exchatrnge   of   ideas   through
interactions with external sources of knowledge over the
entire project period.
It would be appropriate to reiterate certain well
known facts in order to fully appreciate, the constraints
under which the programme has been implemented.   (1) We
have  very  heavy  pressures  of  bothl human  aiid  bovine
population on our forests and therefore,. the plantations
raised  under  the '.Social  Forestry  Project  have  been
subjected to those pressures which exist constantly.
(It)   More thin 70%  of the population lives in the
rural  areas  where  the  project  has  been  implemented.
Implementing a programme of the type amidst pressure of
subsistence population has its own negative impacts.
Despite the above, as acknowledged in the Completion
Report', the plantation efforts have been very successful,
recording.a survival rate of 82% and an independent survey
has revealed that Karnataka State has emerged the most
successful States as regards the -survival percentage.
(Survey conducted by the Institute of Public Opliion).
Some of the observations which have been made by the
FAO Team in the PCR are clarified here below:-



20
(l) We do not really endeavour to counter those
observations specifically, nevertheless we would llke to
provide  some  background  informa-tion  on  the  existing
situation within the Karnataka State which might be useful
for proper appreciation.
1) In a situation existing in India where there is a
tremendous pressure of population it is difficult for any
functionary of the Government to clearly stick to his own
defined work. The object being welfare of the people, very
often varied kinds of jobs are handled by the Government
functionaries with an intention to help the people.
Therefore, sometimes the roles of Researchers, Extension
workers and field Foresters. all get merged in one.
2) The perceived view on the -delayed on going
evaluation does not really carry much conviction. in the
light of the fact that the main object of the Project being
planting of trees, has been acknowledgedly very successful.
2(a)     External     evaluation      by     independent
organisationslinetitutions always carries better conviction
and therefore, the Karnataka Forest Department has relied
more upon the external evaluation thdn upon the internal
evaluation.  The Evaluation Report of the Indian Institute
of Public Opinion, and the analysis made by the Karnataka
State Bureau of Statistics and Economics and thte Institute
of Socio Economic Change, Bangalore, on the progress and
performance of the Project, speak well of the success of
the Project.
3) The price of wood has been rising very steeply in
the last two decades and farmers have been changing their
choice of species with the passage of time.  Some 20 years
ago, Casurina was the most sought after species; some ten
years ago, Eucalyptus became the first choice while as of



21
now Teak is the most sought after species for plantlng on
Farm lands.   The pace of change has been so dynamic that
the Monitoring process has only been following the trail of
A
happenings rather than keeping pace with It. The coice of
Eucalyptus by the farmers has been partly because of ready
marketability and partly because of rise, in cost of inputs
for agricultural production.
3(a) Fuelwood is always a subsidiary product of a tree
and nearly 50%  of biomoss from most trees is utilised as
fuelwood  in Ka*'ataka.    Farmers  change  the utilization.
pattern of the wood depending upon the compulsions as also
the market price.   In many cases, Eucalyptus Plantations
have served as stepping-stones to the farmers, facilitating
intensive development of their agricultural lands by way of
providing better inputs, thereby bringing better incomes.
In a -few cases, the surplus fuelwood generated from
Eucalyptus plantations has been supporting few Small Scale
Industries like Tile and Brick Industries, as In Malur
Taluk of eastern Karnataka.   Whereas,  in certain coastal
places where Social Forestry was a non-priority activity,
the existing Tile Industries are facing shortage of
fuelwood.
4) The Fatmer's (Kissan) Nurseries have played their
role of being a bridge between  the Department  and the
Agriculturists.   At this stages we are looking at quality
seedlings of the choice species which should be produced by
qualified nurserymen and sold at competitive prices.  The
general environment is very favourable  for planting tree
species on the Farm lands at this juncture.
5) The advent of NOOs in India is a recent phenomena.
Majority of them are still in a process of establishing
their credentials with the local population. The Karnataka
Forest Department has always been willing not only to join
hands but also to support those NGO's who have proved their
comnitmenf to the cause of Social Forestry.



22
6) The Indlan farmers have the traditional experience
and knowledge of not only groWing agricultural crops but
they have also fairly rich knowledge of growing trees on
their  lands.'  If they opt  for commercial  species  like
Eucalyptus, Casurina or Teak in addition to Tamarind, Mango
6r Jack fruit it is their conscious choice and a commercial
compulsion and is not borne out of ignorance.
7) The greatest testimony of community participation
is that almost all plantation efforts have been a good
success and this would not have been possible if the
community was opposed to that. However, we do find that
the local environment is not free from problems where these
plantations  would  be  handed  over  for  their  future
,management.   We do acknowledge  that  it is ..an evolving
process and hopefully it would succeed in course of time.
8) Designing of a Project or a Research programme
therein Is Invariably at a philosophical  and conceptual
level, which is often done by visualising the existing
situations and may or may not be location compatable. Once
designed, there is tendency to stick to the conceived
models and it' is only later that one realises that it  is
not always possible to put all the ideas in the same design
and  obtain desired results.   13esides the environmental
factors, there is also the play of socio-exonomic forces
both in implementation and in success of programmes. It
also cannot be said with certainity that lessons learnt
will always form the foundation of all future programmes,
as the factors of the soclo-economics keep' changing.
8  a)  The  foundation  laid  by; the. Social  Forestry
Project and the lessons.l.8nt- '. therefrom have been quite
useful while conceiving the new project 'Western Ghats
Forestry and Environment Project" which has already taken
off. Further the virtual II phase of the Social Forestry
Project. called  "Forestry  and  Environment  Project  for
Eastern Plains, has been designed  on  the bnnis of the



23
experience gained from the Social Forestry Project
and the same is under the active consideration of the
State Government.   Forest Management perspective in
Karnataka has been changing quite rapidly. The State
Government is in the process of giving a definite
shape to the Joint Forest Plannlng and Management
concept, wherein active involvement of the villagers
will be one of the key factors at all the levels of
Planning,  Implementation Management  and shiaring of
the produce.   In a heterogenic village composition
like in India where class, caste and community
factors operate, it is rather difficult to formulate
cohesive plans of Forest Management.  However, it is
evident that the initial suspicion on 'the part of the
villagers about the forestry projects are wearing obt
and the new Projects which are emerging will be far
superior, thus enabling to give proper weightage to
the social choices during the implementation of
forestry projects in the State, thus ensuring
sustainability.
The develornent impact of the Project is very
much in evidence in the rural areas.   Creation of
about 41,000 Ila. of block plantations has made a
positive  impact  in  solving  fuel  wood  problems
wherever  it existed.   The lops and tops from the
trees are already being collected by the local people
for  their  day  to  day  needs  and  whenever  the
plantations are harvested the produce is being made
available firstly to the local people and only when
there is no demand, the produce will be allowed to be
moved to the other places.   The block plantations
contain invariably tree fodder species which serve as.
a  fodder bank  and whenever  there  is  scarcity  of
fodder, the loppings from the fodd(er trees are being
made use of by the rural public.  Infact, the trees
along the roadsides are our best messengers spreading



24
the message of Social Forestry amongst our people.
Partly. because of the awareness created due to
recently completed Social Forestry Project and partly
due to changing economic considerations, planting of
trees   outside   the   forest   lands   is   gaining
considerable popularity. This can be said to be one
of the mejor development impact of the Project.
Lessons Learnt.:
1) Free distribution of seedlings is not the
best mode of encouraging planting on private lands.
During the process of the project implementation, it
has emerged that people expect quality seedlings and
they are prepared to pay reasonable price for the
same.
2) In several cases ic has been difficult for
the Department to hand ove;^ the plantations to the
local communities for their future  management as the
villagers feel that at this point of time they are
not  certain  about   protecting and managing  these
plantation« in the best possible way.
3) The common knowlcdge of useeing is believing"
is true for Social Forestry programnes also. Wherever
there have 'been good demonstration areas, the
message of Social Forestry and planting of trees has
spread very well.
4)   For planting on their landt farmers need
quality seedlings, extension mechanism and package of
practices. In the absence of these, they are
reluctant to go wholehe4rted.
5) The on going project has generated, pushed up
the costs of overhead for planting activities, partly
also du6 to several visits, meetings, workshops and
missions. It may be desirable to. assign a fortnight
may be six months for all such external activities
related with the Project.



25
6) It has not been always possible to avail the
services of specially trained personnel for the jobs
for which they were trained and as such placements
have  been  beyond  th   control  of  the  Project
Authority,  wiich  is  not  the  best  option  for
efficient project implementation.
The  relationship  between  the  Bank  and  the
Department were quite cordial and the entire project
was  implemented  in  a. friendly  atmosphere.    The
participation of the ODA, which is a co-financier,
has been substantial on the technical side.  TheIr
association with the project has lhelped particularly
to  solve  some  technical  problems.         Tlhe  ODA
concentrated more on the research and training
aspects.



26
PART Im Statistical Information
1. Rdated Bank Lem  and Ced&ts
Cret  NJProJct Na=o                        wos                        Year of   Status
Approva
Cr92-IN                 To Inea  the sup   of fihlwood In rua area, to  1978   Completed
Uttar Pradesh Socia     pvide poc bamboo, sma timber fder geass
Forety Project          and minor orey produ   and strcghen the
sOl fores  ogniato to amy out proect
Cr96t-It                                      ^                        1979   Complted
Gujart Soi Foreby
Proect
Cr.1789-IN                                                             L       Completed
West Benga Socl
Foret Project
Cr4286-IN                                                              1982   Completed
Jammu and Kamir and
Haryana Socil Faresy
Cr414-IN                                     *                         184   On-oig
Kala Sodal Fostry
Cr.161-IN               To  at  the Staes of Gra Uttar Prades,         V8S    On-go
Nadonl Soial Foety       Maca PradeA, Rjsthat c md nd
Pect                    Improve te sca foet actwe
Cr.2328-IN              To support restrg and rationaliation of th     1992   On-oin
?daharahra Forsty       Stats forsty depa    and ts Ivestmet
pro        and to fster a grer rdoe in forstry
and develoment for vEWa  communkitie nonp.
govarment Institutions, cooperativ  and the privte
CrZ41-IN                                                              1992   On-going
-wes Seagal Forestry



27
2. Project Tuetable
Dne Pmned             Dat RevWed            Dat AcwJ
-mparaficlu                                                                  DM 1981
Appraisal                                                                   Jen/Fob. 98
Negtato                           July 1983                                November 93
Board Appoval                    October 1983                              December 1983
Credt Sing                                                                 F      8bruay  4
Credit Ef1venes                                                              May 1984
aosn 1/                         December 98            December 89
December 90
March92             March 1992
I/ Project osing extended 3  Ptm
3. Credit Dibs        ts (Cumulative in SDR millions)
MA Fscal Years       A        Estmate           Actuals            Aduals = 1* or
-pras  ZbEate
83                    LS                    3.0 v
84                    2.7                   3.6                  13
85                    ml                    7.                     69
86                   180                    105                    S8
87                   22.5                   13.0                   58
88                   24.8                   14.9                   60
89                   25.0                   17.3                   69
90                   25.6                   19.7                   77
91                   23.4                   23.4 2 
Rv R    etive finacing of up to US$2.7 mllion was alowed under the trm  of the Cradt
2/ Th Credit dosed on July 31,1992 and an amount of SDR2.2 mii  wasnl



28
4. Pject    pl_e        on   Ke  lndcatrs
Appas       Relsed    Revied    Actub    Acu as  Acta as %
Estimate     MTR    ExtSinn   Ahid               . of          er
APPisal    Extesio
Estimate    Esiaten
A. PIautatlo.
(la ha)
Gonial Land              15,000    13,00                   1,6           79j
CAD Land                 5,00       8,500      2(,50      14,26         284           9
Tank Foreshore -,000                S,00        6,500      6,3                       102
canal Ranks               1,000     lwW 
Roadsides                3           A          4          4,6366
Bamboo                   2,00       2,000       2,00       2,50         12512
Farm Forestry              799        529        S53        50Y7         63           92
(MM=~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ WA_ew
Toa (ha) I/             149A,000    5,00      26,50    163,0            109           62
No.of Mnageiet                                               94 a
PlanA                                              Sarioy W9  S29                   as 6
Etae               fApprai tu           dbusl
Es'otae )  1App49z0Emat2
IL Saong Ns)
Add. Chief Cnservator of Foress              I             1            1            1O0
Conservator of Fores                        3              4            4            i33
Deputy Cnservator of Forest                 17            16           16             94
Asdstant Conserva of Forests                30            20)          20             67
Forest Rangr                               156           138          138             88
Forestes                                 580            318          306             53
Fores Extension Workers                    394           376          a1              89
Swpot Staff                                380           441          383            101
Motivators                               3000           1,500        1,473            49
ToWal                                 456C1          2,14        2,6               S9
, Assaines SAR and bCMi ftar  fw fam Am" of 12             hand of 221%50 ha at ltc.uo  Acual
calcuated onbadsisofZM00trees/ha, 20%! ~. .~Aeat,and 20%waste.



29
Appra                 Acta            Acl as 96
stimate             procure           oAf Apraisal
C Vehil N ocuromt (No&.)
Car                                           5                    8                  160
Van                                           10                   6                   60
Mnibus                                         1                   1                  110
Jeep                                          46                  33                   72
Truck                                         17                  17                  10
Tactr                                         34                  34                  100
Bulozr (with rpper)                            2                   2                  100
Mlotorcycls                                  150                                        0
Bicyces                                      600                   1                  e
Tota                                     865                  102                   12
D. Cil Wo  (No..)
Nou-Resdmta
Trainn Centr                                   1                   1                  100
Coservator of Porests Offwee                   1                   3                  300
Dep. Cwnato Offices                            4                   2                   50
Sob-Totl                                   6                    6                  10
Conerator af Foarest                           1                   1                  100
Dep. Conservator of Forests                    4                  12                  300
Ass. Conser  Of Forests                        8                   8                  100
Fore  Rangr                                   52                  66                  127
Forestr                                      114                  53                   46
Forest Ext Workers                            80                  68                   8S
Other                                                             32
Sub-Totl                                 259                  240                   93
Tolal                                    266                  246                   93



30
5 PWec Cost and Fhmdng
A. PrQJec Cost
....................... **.*..**....... od.e**
SAR              Acl         Actual/SAR 
Cii Wods                                   252                 34.0               L3S
Vehies & EquWpment                         27.4                329                120
Paaibo                                    2880                5293                184
Inermea Staff                             104.1               2325                223
Traiag/Reseah and Studie                    7.9                 35                 44
condmand"is                                99.7                134                 13
Total                                  552                $45.6L4
Project Facing
........ . Planned *...      ....... Achinal
us$ iniom     *ofToId       US$mlUom      % ofTota
rDA                                     27.0      48%          29.51/
ODA                                     23.0      40%          N.Y Y
00I/GOK                                  66       12%          NA.2'           -
ToWa                               56        100%           NA.            -
Equivan to evisd SDR23.4 milinM afer cnltio of SDR2.2 milo
2/ Fma figus we not avble at me of FPR prvaatio



31
6. Pject Results
A. Diect Benefits
Uni              Appls Estimate           ActuaI/PCR Eutu_e
(NOV )                       ()
udlcatrs:
Gomal Lands               ba                           iS,O00                  11,869
C&D Lands                 ha                           5,000                   14,236
Tank Foreshore            ha                           3,000                    6,637
can  Banks                ha                           1,00                     1,151
Roadsides                 ba                           3aoo 
Bamboo                    ha                           2,000                      07
Farm Foray                ha                          120,000                 122,0001/
Produedo.
Fue_wood                  St                           5,600                    5,9422/
Poles/Pulpwood            mt                           1,600                    2,6943/
Bamboo                    mt                             200                      77
Timber                    mt                             100                      32
Smal 7imber               at                             300                     743
Fodder                    mt                             700                     667
Fmt                       Mt                           1,700                    7,693
No. of BIgmes:
Farm Forestry          tbo                             3/400                    919.6
Non-Farm Foresy         viages                                                  3,627
Emb  qet Gunrated:
Farm Foresty           ma                          58 mulhu               24.0 ml   4/
Non-Farm Fostry         1days                            io                22.5 miion
B. Price of Outputs
...... SAR Esmate 
.....        sdmat. ..
Unt       Fnanca S/       EconmI  FinanI 5/    Ecomkc
.....  Ruees per Unt .......... Rupe  per Uni .....
Fuelwood  .mt                        200/350             280   400/500 6/       400
Poles/Pulpwood            mt         330/500             400   800/1,000        800
Bamboo                    mt         ll0/420             340      325           480
timber                    mt        600/1,000            800  2,400/3,000      2,400
Smallmbe                 nMt         480/750             600   800/1,000        800
Fodder                    mt           600               600       0            200
Frit                      mt        1,200/2J000         1,600    2000         1,600
1/ Based on 507 momn seeings distred, 20% replacemet, 20% waste, and 2,00 trees/ha.
2/  e and pupwood.
3/ Pole o*.
4/ Based on 197 mandays/ha and 122,000 ha.
5/ SAR prices are suidized GOK and market price avere; PCR Estimates are sobsidized and
market stumpap Valu
6/ niludes fte and pupwood.



32
C Economic Impact
Apprubsl Estmate     Actud (PCI) Esdmtbe
Economic Rae of Retun%)                                  22.0                     16.
Proe Le (Yarus)                                         36                       30
Standard Cvesion Factor (SCF)
Fator for Ukimed Labor                         0.7                        8
D. Financdal Impact
Flna-AW Rate of Retu (%
Goad Land                                                U3                      9.6
C&D Land                                                 13 
Task Foreasw                                             14.3                    8.3
Roadside6 Dry                                             62j                    7.0
Roadsde, Wet                                             I5.7
CAnal Bak                                                il9                     8V
Baubo                                                     5.1                    3.4
Farm, Foresty                                            20.0                   12.61/
Studks                     ~~~purpmn
Wood Balanc Study                     To cle data on wood       Completd December 87
Projc Evalat  Study                   E       /sy of              Co ed July 92
prect in S    Dsticts
1/ Excudes fit tres



33
7. Stts of Covenants
-g_Xqd   1 MMawDaa                      Tjpd  ICt_                                          AM 0zu
-                           -      
Seedo                                              1/          DMt         DM*
2d PA          Katasall fths MA, RPr               4           30/09/92    30/069
mac latw thas 6 cadhe &afer
cmpetio of poject a dmft
m P!P  I R_a
Ulall PA       Kmnataks shal funish MA   FIN       I                       -
cetied copis of accom
& fiandal sumem   not
ltr  Dan 9 monh ater ed
of eh fiscal yea.
Obi PA         KaXa  dsal funish to    ADT         1
thde Amodat    Wuedlt
"Ollwing flnalltoe, the
qpos of the Audit
3.ce PA        KXaatak to undetmae       ORO       1                       31/03/86
jawn m*tcm m siew with
MA  da compiml  of
-d ys pn
3.3 PA         0OK to eview cumet        ORG       2           .           30/06/84   Rbea mana
Scdi -ob Rsmth                                                                d o
Pr7paeime ad prepare 
d-ubed reinm Jh
SM2(0PA    0K to lii fe                  oRG       I           .
dutbutoa to 1,500 in 194-
as"d 730 rm 1 86
scI2(S         0K to esoabsh a  tff      ORG       I                       30/09/84     he .0 t ssot
monltoting and evuatio                                                 trIFerredtoSF
SC-(O    G OK to appon    nr a           m         S                      30/04/14    Coust fMld in
mid-S forsry stff SW at                                                  'ofpt ofsor d and
Indt 20% at aded staff for                                             midewd la tinKn
-uwii                                                                  view o lmtebd
eteion of pjec
lvinSAIL u oft
.WW
SCIL29         Go      to anape udlhtl   ORG       2                      30/06/84     bfme cout
ofsaea MUMNoImel saf  n al                                             oly
lant OOK depqtone
for sald ftoe   a0enslL
SCI(0)         00K to estblIh and        ORO       I           .           300/4    Not satie.
_*aw Sad FWU
Aoi C  nd
WoMBi  Group 
SCH2(11)       00K to reOw funtlons ad 0RO         S                      31/03/84    Noe revant In view
pWldas f    bSo ed    a                                                         t dblhoW of
foresty to.m -Iae ci doial
SC2(1)            K to GUalNe            ORO       2                                   I-  0.0  nomms
anqaas o distribdon                                               bokA phaWieo
or forstr produc m t=                                                  a. Now GAL
diadpdo                                                                undbr dw
1/elcieomplac  1 -Full opid  -            ymlo ied;2  n    1ot ffctngS NomiinoNoeyetd
5.- Coent no l1ge spple;   6. -m   data  qule. r l..



34
8. MissIon Data and Staff Inputs
A. Mission Data
ey  of        Date      8 BY       W  Natd  MdSm_W    Idm             P_dzomm     Tgd 3f    1yped
(MYr)                 PI1                     1/         Dtin 2/                buI4/
preparato     12/81    GOl/GOI
Apprisa       01/83    IMA/ODA       6
1              S3/84     IDA         3         10          IA            2           1          F
2             O8S      MA/ODA        7         10        IF,S,E,P        2           1          P
3             09/S       MA          1         14          P             2           2         ?P
4             OIJ86   IDAODA         S         18         NA             3           3         MT
S             09/86    DWODA         S         6          NA.            2           1         m,m
6             0/7    IDA/ODA         6         12         NA.            2           2        MT,F
7                     M2/88   IDA/ODA  7       16         NA.            2           2         M,T
8             10/88     IMA          3         7          NA.            2           2        MT,F
9             03/89      ODA         8         13         PAE,P          2           2          P
10            11/89   MIA/ODA        3         6           F,P           2           2         M
11            07/p0      MDA         2         6           F             2           2         M
U             03/81      IDA         2         S           F             2           2        MT
13            01/O2      IDA         2         5           P             2           2         M
ComPltlos    07/92    FAO/CI         2         19          FME           2           2    M
1-/ A-A _;ukr  D-Rura Dsvlpier SEoaist F-Fbrctq  1-1tdo  P-roject  Avor 8-sol
2/ P     _fomm   Rada  1-poblem be or minor prems, 2-moera poblems smjor pr   /ms (""/SS
1o uia     t pm     2-modeate problemn  3-mao problems, bing addrmd; 4-mo probles  t wbeing addemd
Q9B6 onmada).
3/ Te   1-kiprof  2-womery; 3adetaaating.
4/ tPe od pr m   F-Fmana; M-Maamen; T-Tecal
B. Staff Inputs (sws)
Sig of Id fj   e     PY*     1FM     FM S4 FP YS  FM   FY87  FYM  P      W PYO  FMI    FMPI   1d
u      _adacadcm/    IO    2.10                                                                    390
AJria                        2030  300                                                            23t0
Nqe_oa                             5.10                                                            510
Ig Opertos                         510                                                             1o
Spevbis                            860  8.90   26A0  17?0  660   630   7.00   860   4D0           9450
PWqct Co_o                                                                      -         120     1100
Tlbd              1*    ZA0  21,  8.3   24A   1730  6*   630   7.               Ul    MM    190



ATTACHM4ENT 1
TabLe 1
U.             0       6      0       4      0      ~~      ~~     ~~      ~~     ~~~    ~~~~~~~0 16    0t    0"    an  06 4"  00 09  64  04  14      MO 14   00 16  66      1      40     41    am        1  49111ON16                   16
Om1   0t    0a           0     04      0*            go      Om     Go   'af    40    Om           Om    o4*        0     0        0      *       0      *0 *AOm*4                           Om       0      *A      "      as
VmgoRCi60~~~~g       Sm4    oft    604   gO.        m"     a.    a.    a0    a"          so.    609    396    0106  30    SAO    Om           064    #t    30    *AO    396    30    398    36    3              66  0  3       0,44    069     Om
1300.440           8~~~~400    am1   9*0   O      a" 4 0  41    &0    410    040    Om69    4*          A460  409      *      OM 4     A9 41  A*4 0440    460    460    0460    Gm60              Om 4     ft 4 6   *    40 am   00    30       30
0s4                 0.0~~~~~~40    0.6    0400   40.1  3  040    the    040    040    Of16   0a"       Oak   01A          6 6 40    0.60    00    040    0.16    0.40    040    4100    049    39    016   3a"          040    040    a"         ,01
03033                      04     04m   0to       oft    00t   040,   06    06"         oft   04"    040    too    0A6    00    0A0    on4   040    040    040    040    0A0    040    00    04                 040    040    040    040    040        $A6
040    040    040    040    040    040    040    @0~~~~0 04  040    01  00  4      040    049    040    040    0        0.40    0l*0    00    04.0    040    0.40    040    040    440        A       4 040 06 0
So"1                       040t       440  40    00      40        0     40    04       04      4       4      4       4      4       4      4       4      4       4      4       4       4      4       4      4       3     90      64     60       00
066w            Om       41660a                             0      0       0      0 0*6              0       0          0 0     0*0                                          0          0      0           0 0 0 0 03                                  3
43030         66030                  0      0              0       0t  441        0       0      0"  0e  0A  0o  0oo   m                     *m    0i    S0m  0A"          0m       0      00*1A6    0,1   #0            0   *A        0"       0    9*
130          0400.0               0AS   as        0"    0m    on         0G   0"          0      044   0A  #A       0   0     A  01 0   SA0   IA            0s  0A  0AN    tA0    0Al    0A               0   MO       0M  0Si    0ab           0    0.3
030  390316  0  0  0  0       0      00160          0       0       0      0      0       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is t4 0 to6  *  ST  to  0      so      *            am       Go      a       *6     a      is      0 
04139  03616    0       0       0      0~~~~~~~m  0e    0"        0          0     No      0"    0o        0     0        0"    0n              0s      0     o0      so     to              0n      0       0             so     so       04
13o                        0m  0A    10             0"     0       0m   416      do       0*   460   0.0      440   040   6*0  0469          an4  044    040   044    041    040   9460    060   0440   040   444              410,  840       am6  0040
4S4004~~~~         0*60O  04o   040    oft0    a"0   6410    to4    ,00   6of0  0460              f 0400    3  *419    Om9  004          40          am .00 44  *040   646    66   :016   040   6*1    0A*    Om9   0460   40,9   0460          ass
s841b          0          O4      4A.00m                 e        40     W     411      A       4      s       *     *O      06       "     Gb      a       4     *4               4       m      s       0    00       d~*0          .0      :*      t
6000                          "     Om        9      40 m          40    Go      GA      0       00 O  &60    Om        00    040    :00     OI 6400    000    014          40    16    *de        1      046    *"      40      19    16    -6        gm
vow0*40    0m  0&   0"   0A   ,4                                     i      40  0    0 0                  00  0    ,00  0 0      a"      60       0f   0N      6        4 0 0   0      *      I  6   0       04    0d   *4    01,    0               0. #
0   046 0'o   416    a       oft    Om    OA 0 0  10    394    49          160    30      000    340    0160    30      040    3A*    0400    39      39*    396    30    36    390    19    3*    6400   3419             3
f 64                       040    040    GAS   040    349   0a0    am            40    040    344    040    0,4  0 34         04 60 .am    040    0A0    Om        040    040    040    0A0    **4    3         040    39    39        0I"    00       644
139w                       041    040    0.0    040    040    04,   040    040    006  0Gm    040    3                040-f    0     040     04     sit   040    040    016    0*0    040    03    040    040    04            3'9    O40    0,       0am
mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
paw~~~.4    4600416  0  0  0  0  0  06441  4  0   0       0      0       0       04*40          0      0      0       0       0      0       00440          0      0       0      0       0      0    0440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It    0  s
f040          4601                                                        4                                                      0*                                                          00 SW0               0a      0     on       0      0      3
1.~~~~  44~~~~  0  0  0       0      0       0       0      0       0~~~~~~~~~~~N  Om  0  0A    .on                             0      0       0"    a"    SA       MD    0A      $       on      Om       0     ea            tam*
930           6163616am.             0       0      0a0p0 39A" 0                                  0do 0-0-0a"--- 0n0                                                                      do0  0    0039   040            0     or    40        0     6
03330046                              0      0       0      0                    3                      3                      61       0             0       0       0     16                    910A                           9 0  S
060           0.fwwwobm        0                     0       0       0                     0     3       3       9       9     40       4     69      30     3       40     30      40     we      w      w       66     3       3        9      9



AT-TACHMENT I
Table 3
mm~~~~~~~  sm  *      4      0       4      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 4 0  0   0                 O 0    0       0      0      0          0      0  4        ,     4             0      4 a                   0      4 
o  .c*              4.0    4,041  SAN    Om0    *         to     m      em    em    em        e m  H        n       -      HO     *0     46     0       to4    No    no    so0       m      111   em    em       we      m     ASI     so
tmeem~~~~~~~06  ~ 00       0a      0    604,0   Oa    O                d            0       40  0 4  , 0S0 O      01   0,1      .0    O"0   6        O"0     0 0     0   60       0"   04        "       0"   4"       0     414      0
4-000*000          4~~~~~~*0    0*    Om    440.   &O  O  040  A     0ft    Oft    Oft   a,"    040    440    Vo   000    040    040,   040    0AO,   Oft    Om4   60            404    *0*    4*4    4*0    0*0    Om    0*        4
*4*604             0*~~~~~~of    4*    0*    410,   0*    Om    SAO    04.   040    Om    040    000    040    0*    a"o   .00,   040    #I0Q    4m    440    4A0   040    so0          04 4,4  40O   oft   0*    0*         0      0*
4*lf   #0*    400    SAO    04      00    Om    0*    0*         el"   410    Oa    Oa    0A0    Om    0*0   040    44    140,   4*    0*0   040    4*0   040    04                 oft    a"      40*    0      0*
Porn              0.00   4~~~~~~40  0*S f    *0    4a"    am0   GM    0A)    O.*   040    0A * 40, 40    0*0   040    040    I40    040    040    040    040    I44    0*    040    I'm    BAD    040    040    0*o    SAO
400*         0*    0*    0*    440~~~~~~~~~~~~O    4.0    646   0.j0   0.46   044   40,4    040    0*I   0.64    404   4.00,   044    0010   0.04   4.0    0*4    040    0J4   0*10   0*4    0*4    O*4    4*0    4    4-61    0,44
owi00a   40000*            IS      O             IS     0       0   S00       0      0       0      0      0So 00                       0      4      0      4                          4                                     0       600.
0.441*       0U0*          0              0      0          41 10 0    0                            0O                        66           0  0  0 O  0                                044       4      4      4      4       4      4    000
140.        @0000          0       4     0              4                                                  0      4      0      0       0      0      0am                                               0      4      0       0      4    04
4.00  4000.04  0   0      0      0      0       S~~~~~~      ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 4S004   0     "A0 4             044          0       0      0      0      4      0      4000           4      0      0      4       4     004
400  040404*  4    4      0      0      0       4      4      0      4   *000   *060~~~~~~~ 006    006    600    M0O    000    SW0    Om    an    no0    a"6  *0 4   004  000    "a          O  OMO 00      i00    *4     0060
4.0*           oft"        O       4      '4     O              4 0    0                                          4      0o     0              0      4      4      0       4      0      O4     0      4      0p      4             0       0i
1~~~~~0            0  ~~~~~~~~ 0  0     0              ' 4   Mu      f 0         OA" Mu NMu            "a0* 61 0404, "A0    MUN    Mu    Mu       Mu   Mu   4000   low0   01*   *40   Muo  amO   am0    am0   am0    000
HOOowinm        044~~~~~~~0 40*41  60.04  O    M Oft0   MUN    004    00    300   0.40    OA"0  0.140   1300  00*00   0.00    0300    A"0   0100,  4.1*   $*00   Si"0  4.00   1*04   4304   030    44   Si"0  Sim0  Sam
Tabte 4
O*4         0                     O      O      0      0       0o     0      4      O             O       4      0      0      0      4      4      0       0      4      O      4      4       O      0       4
ma......      0   8.1*    em      em     e~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~m SW    MO  m  oft    no    oft    MO    a"     so     No    em       SW     m      a"    so    em       so      m      em    em       m     em     emo   em.   e
P.  em.                  a"       a    a"        4       0    a"      4"      o    a        00 0 4  0el                  40 160 0 4 4 0.0    Om    t       a"     Ot00  0 0               0a   4d   4S    A4          0    Om    410    on
10*004160                a"    a,"    am        MO    046    *a      HO    a"       *0  0MO    dka    *0    &00    OA    el"    MOl           MO    Om0    MO    4*10     H      HO am     au    4      O *4,    od  M      HO.    am0    a"
So"                      0       0*    0*    00    *0         el"   4*s    060    Oft    a"    a"    0          oft   040   00.0    606    0m       Ot 40 0** *          0*,   0*0   ,0*,   #0       0*0  40'       060   #0    40        4
PoiOft 0                         0*    0*    0*0    *41    Om    0.4    Om    O40    0*    Om    oft    0*    4*    01*0    440    040   1,4    4,4    OI   40    0*                    0.3,     f 44060,   0001   460    0*    Om         I'D
ha4                      a"    0*a   Som    44        aft    0*0            0      040     0*IS    0.40    we    040    04    04      0*             "I   06,4    0.*    0       0*    0,4    0*    04       46      041        ,44 0* *    0*
town                     a"    0a    a"    640          4*    0*    a"    SWIS   4*        4.60   4.0    O.4    440    040    044    0."    .4    0dd,   44t      04 40  0"   Om0   44         a"0    00    441    44    440    O"0    444
an4em0    400*6             0      0      4      4       4      00"00         01      4      O      0      O               404          0 0  40                      4 So40400.0                 0      4              0      0      0*0
"doom        40160000l             0                                 m                   0  0  0                         0   *oe 4O  0                       0       *      4      0    em       *      4      0       *      *      4    to
Poo          000*                  0 a           4              0      0M     0       O                        0      0      0 a"       O          0         O       0      4true                O      0       4                        to" 0
f00         *Anft"         a       04         0             0  0                        O           OO    m      on     on    eno    so      on      oft    Om     em     em     so     no    em6    no    so    so         e  m           em
06a    oma          0      a          0  O              4  0           0      4      0      0       4      0      0      0      0       0      O      0      0      0      0      O       0      0      4      0      4      0       40
i*binwo                    a       *      0      0       46     0   Si"       4       *    so     em     Om      so     a"   am       em     No    Om       "O    so    em       emb  SAN       mO    an      m      em     em     em      01
so                      panMo   6030    04a     0              0     .0    04       04     00em MO a"OO   Mu                          em      e mm  41 o o  AO m m 0  M OM  em   HO    Mua      m             eman o  an    em      on    0400
mo                          0*o"o
oft~nS0bbV*m*mbm



919969         0       9       9       9      0       049569         9       9      0       9       0      9       1W9   It0'    9        9              0       0       9        900 9M 0              9              9       0                    PMO
*     *       0      *       *       *      0       9      0       *~~0    0      0               *       9              ,      *              9       *       9       9                              0              9         PMu..             ma
ean     0       9      9       9       9      0       O,             9       9       9      9       9      9       91                0                   0                        940                                                   "mom9 0   9991    09
.99   0    9    9    9    0    9    00190    9    9    9    0    9    9    19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4444,    9    9    9    9    0    9    19590    9t    9                                               It9       mum.             W
199  990    099    *9  OSO    *9    999    .99~I$  *9    99    99      00      0      09      @0     Om    09         9       .0   0 I     *9                      GM 09  9  99   9       09      19    0I0    09"9                          538mo
mas     ma    ma       IWO    ow       ma      ad    ma    mat    o*    ma          Oo      me    ma0   co         owo    ma    ma*   ma"    ma    0             ma"     we    mao    ma        o       ma    maf    04        Us
ow.    ma    on        to6    Om       a"     mA      ma  . ma        0      ma    ma       ow      am     ma    Oma    on        on      man     mAa "          ma      ma      Oma    man     on      on     ma      ma    man                          p
4W9     o 09w                  90      Om      0      0o      9O    9        on     a"       w      ON       w     Om       0     90      Om      9W     go       0      0W      Om     Ol      9       an     Om       9W     ONII                    W"
9  9  9  0    9      9       0      9       9       0~~~~~~~~~~~o  0of9                   9       9      9       9             so       9              0       9               0      do     or    r9        *4
son
OF99    0              of 9    so     so      a9      so     S       as      96. t96  46          I9    de         91     9       06      is     06      0       9      4               9       9 0  0  I          6                                *3
9 *lq'J.
1906    9                4     9       9      01       6        0 GU194    9                                       99069                  40Su9                  1691    9       9$I    9       0              so 919$         b. 990              0nIN
"Vs6    e      It      Ws              0      as9   199    9         919    9       9       o0n    9       9       009'           0       19K     9      9       16W     9       16    9        9       9      9       9       0
9  0      9      9~~~q    It     0      a"      0       9      9                      9       9      9                                                         0       09 0  9 0  9       *       9      9       9       9mu
*4                                                    "I 4 9    0    0  *4   9              00      0      0       ON      9      9       *4      0      9        60     9       9      9  0        0          9       9       9mus mdsw
196                                                   al    9 9 o  9  9      0      9       9       0      9       O19    0       9       9       9      0       It      9       o      It      0       0      9       9       9        omoen   901964w
W*  O" in  IW  a"  O  4"  "  on  n  on  "  so on  9" O"    on        "'o    O       on       e      W*       "     O"       "     ow,   O"         e    a"                                i po
999     O *9    *9             we 099     *9    *9    *9      *9     099             on *9  99         ,   a"      owe *9    ma     099    09      *9    *9      *9      999            a" 99     m a " *        m a "*    *9                             WV
990     W*       99    999    490    90    W99    999    999    *s    *9              90     we    a"      099    999    on       999      we    Ws    *9         Ws      90    .0    *o    *9          *9    09         9     999                 ""ama
*9  *9    099    099 *a          99W9            9 0     90 a99    999    *           *       *0 As           9SO    maf999 Is        0      9     999            *0       A9     99      09    09       *9      *9      *9. p.
64-ftu ~ ~        ~              ~              ~              ~              ~             ~             .
9  9  9  9  9  0  0      9       9      0       9       9      9       9      0      ~~      ~~      ~~     ~~      ~~90 9    9 9  0 9              0           0I NICAVI09 oOw
9                  9       0N0                       WH9                                9                              9      0       0                              9       0      9       9                     *                6V6 6



ATTACHM4ENT I
TabLe 7
pbmknou*               e "   8*    08    0."   8.8   i.e   ,.e    8.8  as         .      *    0       8    eg      u    0       8    88     08    0      8     8      *     0       8    0       *    0 
Pbem,460,..i    C~~A         S" m  "S   Ma   Us   *.i   m8s  eas   e.g   SO    e              WSe.    e.   S.6   WSg   0*      0*    e.    es            *Sg.  a      .    ge      g.     .    e.g
04    0*    0*  ~~~01   is  8*    48    8.?   I*    88       PA    *      6      .g    *     0*    8*     0*    0      0*    08     8     81     0      8      *    0      8
191$1.d AUO            s   two$   W*.   UA    US   M*    M$4  66J8   WJ*8    MO   UI   .s   as   "A   I"    smA8   SA   MS   JS   mu   ifm    US    I"    US1                      S    as    MS   M5   08S    "
OA-61011m            Is"   "a    $4   IS"    M6   M1    as    MA   MU    MA    M4   S"    W4    $A   SU    f4   MA4                 S     *A   MA $ 0  4   $4A   SU    SU    14A   18   S"    MA   $18  t"A
Lueftamem"           S"  16*.    S"1.    S"    as8  eta  IU$   $4.8  M*    mA   ma   US    "A   US    11.6   "A   9*    9-   ToA   UM                  M    US   UM        M    US   U        M    UI    M    US"
8        a      a     a      8    80    a4      6      a0  .8    a4       U      S1     a    4*   $4    a*  a6  IN    S*                 46   S4        4    $4    $4    $4    U
46611.880              0      8     0      8     0     is    $8    $8    $8    $8    $8   P2  40   so   U.   iN   UAO    6N   on    88    18    i.  IA    61   4n   an    M1    I    gm   SAN
610.      SFAd            0  8         0      0      0  8         0  e            e     *      e     e      o     e      e     8         0 e      e             0     0         0     08 e            0     8    18
940.       SON            0         8     0      0           .8 i   1W    W*    S"    is    so    if    de   "S   $7    $4    16            a     1*    a      1*    Il    11    $       so    18   46    a    to
808*610.  80e                 0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0     8      8     8      a     8      S     4k    4      a     a      4     a      a     4      8     8            8     8      a     a
f9.       "OIN         0      4     a         0      0         a  0     0        an1   M4   so1   SW    $4    an    an   4en    an   61    $  4 8#   so8   $4    so    M8   to   $41   M4    M,
r4do6  4UAW I                 0 4                 S 0          a 0 U              S      a     a1     *     af  IC    6        S    64    $4       I     a    if      3    $3    a4  IS        a8      a    U 
466111808   a08.a  0  8                       0         S   so    so    so       $8    M    4"      O0           at   soif  1*      oft   II   48    Mf   ea   SAW    M           on    on     U      $8   in  4P
108.o    86866                M    w.                          a       0    a      0    a"    so      8    so     M    Gm       0      0    M      0n   on      W     so    SW     M    as       8    M           
OMIGM. RMOMMOM                                                 8    $?     .      6      8     6      8      8    $      D     $1    6$      8     6      i    i      4       i    U     8                         6
SiUWe.8S4Pmmmu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~mm  $8460"b



IBRD 17162
MAY 1M83
(^~ ~ ~ ~~*   14. ci t g. i4'Sl'' t*.   PS,. * 1o-.fllj.   *4 t 10.  3w b,ec
700    ISOHYETS IN MILUMETERS
RIVERS, DAMS AND WBRS                                                            I 2              ..,
0      DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
@3     STATE HiEADQUARTERS                                                              f                  INDIA
-    DISTRICT GOLINDARIES
_ -  _ STATE 8OUNDARIES
-     NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                        AM            /
MAHARASH'RA                         \         ^ulborgo
<                     ~~~~~~~82         8  \ \ ;
.  ANDHRA PRADESH
ROIchur
INDIA
K, KRNAIAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
GOAt               f                                           .  
s-S .    0>_4 Dhaspbr r     t,    I       Y         5   -                           TYPES OF FOREST
TROPICAL wET EVERGREEN
TROPCAL SEMI-EVERGREEN
6                    0        Ilary               ~~~~~~~~~~~~DEGRADED EVERGREEN AND SEMI-EVERGREEN
t \ >> 136 , 74 ) 8iMary  hOIST DECIDUOUS
DRY DECIDUOUS
rwor                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCRUB
413    TOTAL AREA UNDER FOREST (IN 1000 Ho.)
ARBA                                                                                     '- r%.i
rAAI NADU
Ah'ABIAN  i  2;5 
SEA                                                   413
0       40       so       1m
KILOM ETRS
\ A^EAtANA %~~~I&



IBRD 17163
MAY 1003
R. -  e5f The INRI Re* *V M U~&Wt efiFW F    C4mwomR &v dre
Man   A                           -            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INOIA
AlANARASHMA                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'BUM
AIVDHR'A PRADESH
INDIA
KARNATAKA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CPOA                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOILS
ROCKY AREAS                  a     DISTRICT HEADOIARTERS
*j. IA' I,o!f                                                  f*'4t1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~RED LOAMY SaILS  ®      STATE. tEADQAIJATERS
'RED SANDY SOILS          -     -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
LATERITE SOILS               *.    STATE BOUNDARIES
LATERITE GRAVELLY SOILS      .     INTERNtATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/  .SNALLOWELACKSOILS                    RIVERtS
~~                                                            :-:-:-:-:* ~~~~~~~~~~~MEDIUMS KLISOILS
DEEP BLACK SOILS
MIXED REO AND BLACK SOILS
COASTAL ALLUVIUM SOILS
TAM/ NADU                               KLMTR
-0445 WXw9ast   :,,N s
AAA           sV,
.,    ,  ,A.



