DIT NUMBER 1432 IN
EOFFICIAL,
DOCUMENTSjf
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Social Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated                             , 19-3


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1432 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   -4A  n      , 193*, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
STATE OF KARNATAKA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Karnataka).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,600,000), on the terms arid
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Karnataka agree to undertake such obliga-
ti<.es toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrange-
ments for developmental assistance to the States of India, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to Karnataka; and
WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement;, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Karnataka shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, forestry and engineering practices.


﻿- 2 -
(b)    Karnataka shall ensure    that, in carrying out the
Project, the implementation procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement are complied with.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Karnataka in carrying out
studies referred to in Part G of the Project, Karnataka shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions   of   employment   shall  be   satisfactory   to   the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Karnataka undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof     to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Karnataka to replace or
repair such goods.
(b)    Except  as   the  Association  may  otherwise   agree,
Karnataka shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Karnataka shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications        thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Karnataka shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of         the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable


﻿the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)  Upon the award by Karnataka of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Karnataka
and the Association, Karnataka shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall   reasonably  request, on   the   execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by Karnataka
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e)   Karnataka shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all sites, works, buildings, property equipment,
records and documents of Karnataka relevant to Karnataka's per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement.
'Section 2.06. (a) Karnataka shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Karnataka of its obligations
under this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Karnataka shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, their resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of such year.
(b)    Karnataka  shall cause   its  departments  and  other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any Part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish    to  the  Association  immediately  following  its
finalization, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information  concerning   such  acounts  and  records, financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Karnataka shall undertake a joint mid-term
review of the Project with the Borrower and the Association
promptly after completion of the third years tree planting and
not later than March 31, 1986.
Section 3.03. Karnataka shall, by June 30, 1984, review its
current social forestry research program and, based on said
review, prepare a detailed research program to be carried out
during the implementation of the Project and furnish to the
Assoc ation for concurrence.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Karnataka of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in   full  force   and   effect   notwithstanding   any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-6-
For Karnataka:
Secretary to the Government of Karnataka
Forest Department
Bangalore, Karnataka
Cable address:
FOREST
Bangalore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Karnataka may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Karnataka or such other person or
persons as Karnataka shall designate in writing, and Karnataka
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
A   Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for
civil works, vehicles, equipment and materials shall be let on
the  basis  of   competitive  bidding  advertised  locally   under
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
B. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With  respect   to  all  contracts  estimated  to   cost  the
equivalent of Rs 7,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Karnataka shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, Karnataka
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.       The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Karnataka and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿-9-
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Karnataka shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conform-
ed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.       The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform Karnataka and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
3. Before agreeing to any material modification or waiv,r of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cdst of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, Karnataka shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor.    The Association, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Karnataka and state the
reasons for its determination.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Land preparation, nursery works, plantations, small civil
works up to Rs 150,000 each and maintenance may be carried out
through force account or piece rates established by Karnataka for
each work season.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Procedures
1.     Prior to planting on gomal lands, Karnataka shall: (a)
ensure that fodder supplies will not be adversely affected by
closure of the relevant gomal lands; and (b) identify such lands
and select species to be planted on them in agreement with
respective village panchayats and concerned villagers.
2.   The respective Deputy Commissioner of the concerned District
shall authorize tree plantation on gomal lands that have been
identified by Karnataka in agreement with villagers and village
panchayats in accordance with Karnataka state laws.
3.    Establishment of plantations on C & D lands and on tank
foreshores and upper reaches of derelict tank beds shall be the
responsibility of the KSFD and its later management, including
usage, shall be governed by an agreement between KSFD and village
panchayats.
4.   Karnataka shall ensure that plantation up to mid-term review
shall not exceed 8,000 ha gomal land and 5,000 ha of C & D land
out of 20,000 ha of agriculturally unproductive waste land. The
plantation targets on the remaining 7,000 shall be determined on
the basis of survey findings at mid-term review.
5.    Karnataka shall distribute beginning with 1984-85 planting
program 1500 seedlings (including replacement for losses) per
family and up to 750 seedlings per family from 1985-86 onwards
free of charge. Seedlings in excess of said limit shall be
charged at the actual cost of production. However, germinated
seedlings in baskets and/or seeds would be supplied free of
charge.
6.   Mechanical ripping and ploughing shall be limited to C & D
lands and some gomal lands that are either laterite or compacted
soils, and such lands shall be selected for planting only when
better sites are not available.
7.   Karnataka shall give priority to landless laborers, marginal
farmers and members of scheduled casts and tribes and of other
disadvantaged communities when hiring laborers for the works to
be carried out under the Project.


﻿- 11 -
8.    Senior and mid-level forestry staff and at least 20% of
field staff for the   Social Forestry Wing (SFW) of the Karnataka
Social Forestry Department shall be appointed by April 30, 1984.A
monitoring and evaluation cell shall be established and staffed
by September 30, 1984. Appointment of SFW staff to full
recommended strength would be annually assessed in the background
of implementation schedule.
9.    Karnataka shall, by June 30, 1984, make suitable arrange-
ments for utilizing the services of field staff of all relevant
Departments of Karnataka, for social forestry extension, and
orientation and training of such staff shall be initiated in time
for the services to be available for the 1984 planting season.
10.  For the purpose of providing policy guidance and advisory
support during implementation of the Project, Karnataka shall,
by September 30, 1984, establish and maintain a Social Forestry
Advisory Committee and Social Forestry Project Working Groups.
11. Karnataka shall by March 31, 1984 review the functions and
compositions of Taluka Level Forestry Committees on Social
Forestry to ensure their effective contribution to the implement-
ation of the Project.
12.   Karnataka shall ensure that about 30% of plantations on
tank foreshores, C & D lands, and non-gomal waste lands shall be
designated for usufruct by the poorer sections of the nearby com-
munities.
13. Karnataka shall, by December 31, 1984, finalize arrangements
for the distribution of forestry produce from gomal lands and
other public plantations in accordance with principles agreed
between Karnataka and the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


