Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 9909-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$225.0 MILLION
TO
FOREC
GUARANTEED BY
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
February 25, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = COP - Colombian Peso
COPI.00   US$0.0004965
US$1.00 = COP2014.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CCF                   Caja de Compensaci6n Familiar - Savings and Loans Association
CRQ                   Corporaci6n Regional del Quindio - Quindio Regional Development
Agency
DNP                   Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n - National Department of
Planning
ECLAC                 The United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean
FNC                   Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros - National Federation of Coffee
Growers
FOGAFIN               Fondo de Garantias de Instituciones Financieras - Guarantee Fund
for Financial Insitutions
FOREC                 Fondo para la Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero
- Fund for the Reconstruction and Social Development of Eje
Cafetero
GOC                   Government of Colombia
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
INGEOMINAS            Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Geol6gicas y Mineras -
National Institute of Geological and Mining Studies
IVA                   Impuesto de Valor Agregado - Value-Added Tax
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UlSAID                Unites States Agency for International Development
Vice President: David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Team Leaders: Eleoterio Codato and Connie Luff



Colombia
Earthquake Recovery Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ...................................................................2
1. Project development objective ...................................................................2
2. Key  performance  indicators ...................................................................2
B  Strategic Context ...................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........3
2. Background  and  strategy ...................................................................3
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by the  project and  strategic choices .................................4
C  Project Description Summary ...................................................................5
1. Project components ...................................................................5
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the project .......................6...............
3. Benefits and target population .                           .......................................6.........................6
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..............................................7...............7
D  Project Rationale ...................................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ...............................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........9
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the project design .......................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .                                      .................................................. 10
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................. I I
E  Summary Project Analysis ..................................................................                                                       11
I. Economic  and  Fiscal Impact ..................................................................                                      I l
2. Technical ...................................................................                                                           1
3. Institutional ................................................................... 12
4. Social .................................................................. 12
5. Environmental assessment .................................................................. 12
6. Participatory approach ................................................................... 14
F Sustainability and Risks ..................................................................                                                        14
1. Sustainability ..................................................................                                                    14
2. Critical Risks ..................................................................                                                    15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..................................................................                                    15
G  Main Loan Conditions ..................................................................                                                           15
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..................................................................1l 5



2. Other                          ........................ 15
H Readiness for Implementation ........................                        16
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                       16
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5.     Housing Policy
Annex 6.     Environmental Issues and Management Plan Summary
Annex 7.     Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Photographs
Map



Colombia
Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC4C
Date: February 25, 2000                            Team Leaders: Eleoterio Codato and Connie Luff
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano          Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P065263                                Sector: MY - Other Non-sector Specific and
UH - Urban Housing
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan        Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[XI Loan     [ ] Credit         [ ] Grant       [ ] Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 225.0 million
Proposed terms:   [  To be defined     [I Multicurrency       [ X I Single currency, US Dollars
I Standard Variable    XI Fixed Spread  [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             5
Years to maturity:               17
Commitment fee:              0.85% during the first 4 years;
0.75% thereafter
Service charge:                   %
Front-end fee on Bank loan:      1.0%
Financing plan-  [J        To be dWfined
Sowrce                                Local          Foreign        Total
Government                                                  152.00                          152.00
IBRD (including front-end fee)                              197.90              27.10       225.00
Total:                                                      349.90              27.10       377.00
Borrower: Fondo para la Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero (FOREC) - "Fund for the
Reconstruction and Social Development of Eje Cafetero"
Guarantor: Government of Colombia
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2000         20101       60l2         2003
Annual      60.0        100.0        50.0         15.0
Cumulative       60.0        160.0       210.0        225.0
Project implementation period: January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Expected effectiveness date:  April 17, 2000        Closing date: June 30, 2003
Implementing agency: Fondo para la Reconstruccion y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero (FOREC) - "Fund for the
Reconstruction and Social Development of Eje Cafetero"
Contact person: Everardo Murillo, Executive Director
Address: Calle 23 No. 16-39 Tercer Piso - Armenia, Quindio - Colombia
Tel: (57-56) 744-2474        Fax: (57-56) 744-2371; 744-3740 E-mail: direccion&forec.net.co



-2-
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project would assist the Government of Colombia (GOC) in its efforts to rebuild communities
following the devastating effects of an earthquake that struck the coffee growing region on January 25,
1999. The overall Project Development Objective is to assist project beneficiaries normalize economic
and social activities through the restoration of essential housing and basic infrastructure following
adequate seismic standards. In particular, the project would provide: (a) grants for housing
reconstruction and repair for the poorest strata; (b) reconstruction of damaged social infrastructure (i.e.,
schools, health facilities and community centers); (c) rehabilitation of public infrastructure (i.e.,
transport, water and sewerage and power systems); (d) improved natural disaster management capacity;
(e) restoration of social capital; and (f) strengthened project management capacity.
Bank financing would contribute to the reconstruction program of the disaster-affected region which is
estimated to cost a total of about US$1.6 billion. The proposed loan would complement the US$93
million reallocated from Loans 3615-CO, 3683-CO, 3871-CO and 3973-CO, as approved by the Board in
August 1999 and declared effective on November 11, 1999. These funds would retroactively finance all
eligible expenditures incurred by the GOC from January 25, 1999. The reallocated funds are being
disbursed and are expected to cover the needs of the reconstruction program until the proposed loan
becomes effective. Furthermore, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would provide about
US$180 million, while other donors (USAID, Governments of Italy and Spain) would provide an
additional US$70 million.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
In an emergency operation, the pace of project implementation is one of the most important initial
indicators of project performance. Key performance targets have been established for Implementation
Indicators, Output Indicators and Impact Indicators (Annex 1). For the Implementation Indicators,
appraisal projections on disbursements within each of the five expenditure categories would be used to
measure actual performance. Achievements during project implementation with respect to the Output
Indicators would be measured through (i) the proportion of completed housing units funded under the
project and complying with the seismic and other building codes of the 1998 Building Code; (ii) the
proportion of qualifying participants in the target group receiving project assistance; (iii) the proportion of
social infrastructure funded under the project and complying with both established community priorities
and seismic and related codes; (iv) the proportion of public infrastructure funded under the project and
complying with both established GOC priorities and seismic and related codes; (v) the number of micro-
zoninig studies completed; (vi) improvements in quantifiable indicators for both the emergency response
time and the level of preparedness of public entities; and (vii), measurable indicators of satisfaction-level
of beneficiaries with the performance of the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in the
reconstruction process. Performance with respect to the Project Impact Indicators will be measured
through (i) the number of new housing completed and the number of units repaired, all meeting required
seismic and related codes; (ii) the number of families moving out of temporary living facilities; (iii)
unemployment and output indicators in the zone and (iv), the number of reconstruction and micro-zoning
plans implemented in the affected zone.



-3-
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
The project is addressed in the CAS Progress Report which was presented to the Board on November 1 8,
1999. This project will contribute to the overall development objectives of the CAS. Specifically, it will
support activities whose goals include: (a) poverty alleviation, (b) restoring infrastructure; and (c) rural
development. Furthermore, the reconstruction of the coffee region should act as a mitigating force
against the possible infiltration of guerrilla movements, thus supporting the CAS objective of promoting
peace and developmenit. The activities to be implemented under this operation are also consistenit with
the specific development goals outlined in the GOC's National Development Plan 1 999-2003.
2. Background and strategy:
An earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale struck the coffee-growing region of Colombia, with an
area of about 1,360 square kilometers in five Departments -- Caldas, Quindio, Risaralda, Tolima and the
Valle de Cauca. The initial impact, along with an aftershock of 5.2 and numerous smaller aftershocks,
resulted in 1,1 85 deaths, over 4,000 injuries and more than 150,000 people were left homeless. The
municipalities of Armenia, Barcelona, Calarca and La Tebaida suffered the most extensive property
losses. According to geological studies and seismic experts, the coffee-growing zone is traversed by at
least two active fault-lines and the reoccurrence of earthquakes should be expected in the region with 15-
20 year frequencies. When earthquakes strike the region, the volcanic soil and poorly-compacted filled
sites contribute to its vulnerability.
Overall, of the estimated 1.5 million residents in the affected area, about 560,000 suffered some form of
earthquake-related losses. The United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ECLAC) estimates damages to be about US$1.6 billion (or about 30 percent of the regional
GDP), including both direct and indirect costs. Direct costs refer to destruction of buildings, losses of
household property and commercial equipment, as well as damage to infrastructure. Indirect costs are
characterized as losses in wages, production, market share, sales, tax revenue, as well as the actual cost of
the relief effort and insurance compensation.
The data on damages indicates that the most important impact has been on the region's housing and social
infrastructure, such as schools, health centers, hospitals and cultural/historical buildings. Initial estimates
indicate that up to 90,000 housing units (about 70 percent of the total loss) suffered some type of damage
(see Annex 5, Tables A-B, for a summary of housing losses). Most of the homes in the disaster-affected
area have tiled roofs and walls that are made of plaited cane and mud panels or bamboo. However, other
material such as bricks and cement have also been used without adequate reinforcement. Lightweight
panels and bamboo walls tend to cause less injuries and loss of life than thick adobe or brick walls. The
region's infrastructure also suffered considerable damage including the airport in Armenia, primary and
secondary roads, transmission lines and the water and sewerage systems. While the earthquake did not
cause direct damage to coffee trees and other agricultural crops, the damage to processing and storage
structures and farm equipment, workers' homes as well as assets of other input suppliers (fertilizers,
pesticides, financing, transport, etc) has been substantial.
The region had suffered an economic downturn over the last few years due to low international coffee
prices that was exacerbated by the earthquake. Approximately 80 percent of those affected by the disaster
have low-incomes and could not afford to rebuild or repair their homes. If these affected groups are not
assisted quickly and systematically, the situation could deteriorate both from a macro-economic as well as
social and cultural perspectives.



-4-
With such geographically widespread and substantial damages in so many sectors, formulating an
appropriate response has not been an easy task. The GOC, in coordination with various relief agencies,
managed to feed the disaster-affected residents and control outbreaks of diseases and related health
problems which usually occur after such disasters.
Measures taken by the GOC during the reliefphase:
*  placing the area under military control to prevent looting and to coordinate relief efforts;
*  relocating the President's office temporarily to the affected area;
*  appointing a prominent national figure as Executive Coordinator of the Presidency for Emergency
and Reconstruction Activities;
*  appointing an independent private company (KPMG-Peat Marwick) to audit all relief assistance;
*  signing of Presidential Decrees, including: (a) creation of a Regional Reconstruction Fund
"Fondo para la Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero" (FOREC); (b) definition of
subsidy/credit conditions for shelter reconstruction; and (c) authorization for additional
budgetary expenditures; and,
*  investing over US$2.0 million in temporary shelter to house over 51,000 people left homeless by
the earthquake.
Measures taken by the GOC during the reconstruction phase:
After the first few days of shock, all levels of government mobilized to deal with the disaster. The
National Government and affected municipalities reached a consensus that the private sector and NGOs
were best equipped to handle the day-to-day efforts to rebuild the affected communities. The most urgent
priorities for reconstruction were identified with the assistance of community groups and NGOs. These
groups play a major role in organizing and implementing reconstruction activities and in promoting
follow-up actions such as community development and facilities maintenance. The Coffee Growers
Association play a key role in the planning and implementation of rural reconstruction activities. They
prepared a detailed damage assessment by sector, location, and profile of those affected in the rural areas,
while the Solidarity Network prepared a similar report for the urban sector.
At project appraisal, it was estimated that about 50% of the building debris had been removed. The
estimate for Armenia is somewhat higher at about 70%. Most of the debris has been placed in temporary
disposal locations, which are not considered technically suitable for final disposal. In some cases, these
locations present a considerable public health and safety risk. The GOC with support from the IDB has
contracted an Italian consulting firm to prepare a feasibility study for debris disposal (including recycling)
in the 28 municipalities affected by the earthquake. The Environmental Management Plan (see Annex 6
for a summary) takes the results of this study into account and suggests a management process for
ensuring that over the long term the debris is disposed of in an environmentally benign manner.
Finally, the GOC has allocated about US$4.6 million in housing subsidies. This investment benefits
3,227 people whose homes were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake. In addition, approximately
US$1.7 million has been assigned for the purchase of plots of land for those families who lived in high
risk'areas, allowing the construction of 5,440 homes.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Normally, sector issues are not addressed in Emergency Recovery Loans (ERL). However, this project
will incorporate several features which are consistent with GOC policies such as direct targeted subsidies,
private sector construction and transparency in beneficiary selection. A detailed discussion of issues and



-5-
the shelter reconstruction program supported by the project can be found in Annex 5. In the housing
sector, Colombia has a long tradition of active and multi-faceted government intervention. Over the last
four decades more than US$1 billion has been invested in various shelter programs. The GOC has also
created specialized housing finance mechanisms and entities along with targeted subsidy systems
programs. The Unit of Constant Purchasing Power System (UPAC), established in 1972, is one of the
country's most enduring attempts to support the sector. This program has recently come under increasing
criticism from borrowers and lenders, and several lending institutions are facing serious loan-recovery
problems with many homeowners in default. The Colombian Congress has recently begun
implementation of a new housing policy.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 and Annex 5 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed
cost breakdown)
Bank financing will include a US$225 million loan and the US$93 million provided under the four loan
amendments. The proposed project will have five components, as follows:
(i)    SlhelterAssistance (US$150 million). This component would fund the repair and reconstruction
of about 43,480 units partia]ly damaged, about 17,550 totally damaged and about 18,420 units structurally
damaged in the affected zone. It would finance subsidies, in the form of grants, to owners of units who
meet criteria established by the GOC and agreed to by the Bank. Subsidies would be based on the actual
cost of repair or rebuilding subject to a maximum amount of US$6,000 equivalent per unit, which would
provide a minimum housing solution for each eligible family. It would also assist the GOC to provide a
subsidy for new house construction to displaced renters who are characterized as vulnerable (i.e., female
head of household, the elderly and those in poor health). Other renters in the affected zone will be given
special priority in the GOC's ongoing housing subsidy program.
(ii) Rehabilitation and Retrofitting of Social Infrastructure (US$75 million). This component
would consist of retrofitting of vulnerable structures which survived the earthquake but which are not in
compliance with current or proposed new building code in the affected zone. This component would
finance the rebuilding and repair of social infrastructure (i.e., schools, health facilities and community
centers), including consulting services required for the design and supervision of such subprojects.
(iii)   Relhabilitation of Public Infrastructure (US$115 million). This component would provide
funding for rebuilding and repairing damaged water and sewerage, power, and transport systems, as well
as environmental protection investments, in the affected area, including consulting services required for
the design and supervision of such subprojects.
(iv) Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management (US$7 million). As part of the
reconstruction effort associated with a natural disaster, there is also the need to prepare reconstruction
plans which emphasize the strengthening of prevention, mitigation and management skills of public sector
agencies. Important studies would be undertaken such as microzoning of high risk areas, land use
mapping, geological and geo-technical research, feasibility studies for debris disposal and the preparation
of new building codes. The Government of Italy would provide parallel financing to cover the costs of
expatriate experts in support of these studies. In addition, this component would finance works and the
purchase of equipment (seismic and other) associated with disaster prevention and mitigation efforts
supported by the project.
(v)    Social Capital Restoration (US$8 million). This component would finance the costs of activities
to restore the social cohesiveness and studies to identify both public and private sector opportunities to the
reactivation of the regional economy. Such activities would include community hearings and workshops



-6-
to enh1ance cultural and social cohesiveness, as well as psychological support to disaster-affected families,
etc. It would also finance the purchase of equipment required for carrying out such activities, and the
design and implementation of training programs as well as studies aimed at strengthening the
communities' capacity to re-establish the livelihood of the most vulnerable groups, such as the training of
construction craftsmen, for example.
(vi)   ProjectManagement (US$19.75 million). This component would help to finance project
management costs incurred by FOREC, such as consulting services and training required to strengthen its
project implementation capacity, the purchase of vehicles and equipment, the design and implementation
of a communication campaign, and incremental administrative costs under the project, such as the salaries
of its technical staff.
1. Shelter Assistance             UH                150.00  40.0         100.00     67.0
2. Rehabilitation and Retrofitting  MY                75.00  20.0         40.00     53.0
of Social Infrastructure
3. Rehabilitation of Public       MY                 115.00  30.7         60.00     52.0
Infrastructure
4. Capacity Building for Natural    BI                 7.00   1.9          5.00     71.0
Disaster Management
5. Social Capital Restoration      SY                  8.00   2.1          5.00     63.0
6. Project Management              BY                 19.75   5.3         12.75     65.0
Total      374.75 100.100      222.75     59.0
Total Project Costs      374.75 100.0         222.75     59.0
Interest during construction                             0.00
Front-end fee        2.25                 2.25    100.0
Total Financing Required        377.00              225.00     60.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
According to OP 8.50, long term economic, sectoral or institutional development goals are not addressed
under ERLs, nor do they include specific conditionality linked to macro-economic policies. However, an
important output of the capacity building component would be improved performance of key public
agencies to manage and respond to natural disasters.
3. Benefits and target population:
In addition to restoring assets lost as a result of the earthquake, the project is expected to generate the
following benefits: (i) about 75,000 direct and 25,000 indirect jobs for skilled and semiskilled laborers;
(ii) the reactivation of the construction industry; (iii) housing subsidies to an estimated 76,000
beneficiaries between owners and renters; (iv) reduction of the risk to families who had their homes in
unsafe areas by supporting their resettlement to safer areas'; (v) increase in social capital gained through
' Bank procedures for Emergency Recovery Assistance (OP 8.5) are applied in this project. The GOC has
established the eligibility criteria and compensation levels for families that would be resettled.



-7-
the partnership between local government, NGOs and community; and (vi) economic gains to the rural
population by investments in reconstruction of agricultural assets, forestry and rural tourism.
The project would help to lessen the negative economic and social impacts of the earthquake, especially
for the poor. Bank assistance is targeted at the most vulnerable groups by providing direct subsidies for
rebuilding their homes. Beyond this, it would help earthquake survivors to reconstruct their lives - not
only through the reconstruction of homes and public/social infrastructure that is seismic-resistant, but also
by reconstitutilng the social fabric of families and communities. In addition, the project would assist the
GOC in its efforts to improve institutional capacity to respond to natural disasters.
Componienit I has been designed to target Bank support to the most vulnerable groups. Only affected
families with household income below four minimum salaries per month would be eligible. The GOC
has collected reliable data on this population which should facilitate the rapid and efficient transfer of
resources to these households. In addition, information regarding vulnerable groups (such as female-
headed households, the elderly, handicapped and those in poor health) would be provided by NGOs
working in the region. All residents of the affected area will benefit from Components 2-5 as these have
been designed to respond to damages which impact the population as a whole.
Furthermore, the use of NGOs in the management of reconstruction activities contributes to the
improvement of governance and transparency in this type of intervention. Given the participatory
approach used by NGOs, affected communities have been given a voice in the decision-making process
and a sense of ownership and shared responsibility for the outcome of the reconstruction.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements
Fondo para la Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero (FOREC) would be the borrower and
executing agency while the Republic of Colombia would be the guarantor. The Borrower would deposit
the loan proceeds in a special foreign-exchange account to be established in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank.
FOREC is a national entity of a special nature created in response to the earthquake emergency by
Decree-Law 197/1999 and accountable to the Presidency of Colombia. This agency has been endowed
with authority over national resources and financial autonomy, allowing it to finance, execute, and
coordinate the economic, social and ecological reconstruction of the disaster-affected region. FOREC is
governed by a board of directors of nine members, including a chairperson, appointed by the President
(Decree 199/99), while its management is entrusted to an Executive Director, named by the board. Of the
ninie members of the board, six are from the private sector and three from the public sector, representing
the interests of local, regional, and national entities. The National Department of Planning (DNP) is the
technical secretariat of the board.
The principal functions of FOREC are to: (a) design operational guidelines for implementation of
reconstruction activities; (b) work with mayors and other officials to define the overall framework for the
reconstruction program; and (c) oversee the implementation of the reconstruction effort, including
preparation of terms of reference for consultants, review of procurement for goods and works, review of
subproject proposals and monitoring and evaluation of activity implementation, including technical and
procurement audits. These functions are carried out through a Technical Committee formed by chief
advisors in the areas of: housing and urban development; infrastructure and public services; economic
development; education; environment; health; NGOs and community organization; rural development;



-8 -
communications; external relations; finance; and, information management, monitoring and evaluation.
As part of its role as the focal point for the recovery of the affected area, this committee deliberates on
Zonal Action Plans that comprise the specific subprojects and budgets for the reconstruction of each of
the 32 zones into which the disaster-affected region has been divided. Each Plan is submitted for the
Committee's consideration by the NGO/Zone Manager who has the responsibility to advance the
reconstructioni program in its respective zone in the most responsive, timely, and participatory way
possible.
Implementation arrangements
The project would be implemented over a period of about three-years ending December 31, 2002. The
Closilg Date would be June 30, 2003.
Project implementation would be governed by an Operational Manual which has already been put into
effect for the utilization of funds reallocated under other four Bank loans. The substantive aspects of this
maniual would be changed only with the Bank's concurrence. The Operational Manual includes the
eligibility criteria and procedures for the review and approval of individual financing
proposals/subprojects, as well as guidelines for overall management and implementation of reconstruction
activities by FOREC and the 32 Zone Managers (NGOs).
For carrying out its responsibilities, FOREC would enter into agreements with different local and national
organizations, both governmental and non-governmental. Furthermore, to facilitate quick and efficient
project implementation, the disaster-affected area has been divided into 32 zones in which the
implementation of reconstruction activities would be managed by selected NGOs. These NGOs would
work closely with affected communities in prioritizing reconstruction activities and would be responsible
for identifying beneficiaries and managing housing subsidies. They would also be responsible for
submitting all investment and housing grant proposals for FOREC's approval, as well as managing and
supervising all reconstruction activities in their respective zones. If the NGO/Zone Manager is
responsible for directly carrying out certain activities, then supervision would be contracted by FOREC
with a third party.
Project funds would be managed by a Trust Fund Agency (the fiduciary) already hired by FOREC. The
fiduciary would hold all FOREC's accounts in local currency and, following instructions from FOREC's
Executive Director, would transfer funds to the Zone Managers or contractors hired by them, all in
accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in the contract signed between FOREC and each
Zone Manager or between the Zone Manager and each contractor. With guidance and support from the
Bank, FOREC has established an appropriate financial managemenit mechanism. Through the final
financial management assessment, certain areas still needing improvement were identified and a time-
bound action plan was agreed with project management. The satisfactory implementation of this action
plan would be completed not later than September 20, 2001 (i.e., 18 months after the Board presentation
date).
Reconstruction activities carried out by FOREC will be monitored by means of standard government
control mechanisms and will be subject to external financial and technical audits. Moreover, citizen
supervisory panels will play a central role as control mechanisms for the affected communities. The
reconstruction program will also be subject to review by a monitoring and evaluation system arranged
with a network of nationally and regionally prestigious universities and to full-time public scrutiny of its
activities available through the Management Information System. During project implementation,
FOREC would prepare semi-annual audit and progress reports and present them to the Bank no later than
two months after the end of each calendar semester. These progress reports would describe achievements
in implementing the project, provide a critical assessment of problems arising during project execution
and propose remedial actions.



-9-
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The IDB and the Bank agreed with the GOC that a program of direct subsidies for disaster-affected low-
income owners and renters would be preferable to that of interest rate subsidies for housing reconstruction
loans to homeowners, as initially proposed. Especially, as disaster-affected families lost their assets and
employment, they would not be able to obtain credit from a financial institution. Furthermore, given the
financial crisis the Colombian banking system is currently facing in the wake of economic recession,
purely market-based financing of new housing for risky groups was deemed unlikely to be available. In
addition, as a result of discussions between government authorities, IDB and the Bank, the GOC decided
that it would be necessary to include a program to assist vulnerable renters.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                           Prolject                (R ank-fna tnced proe           only)
Completed Projects                                                         ICR Rating        OED Rating
Emergency Rehabilitation and      Popayan Region Earthquake                Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Reconstruction                    Reconstruction Project- Loan 2379
Emergency Rehabilitation and      Mexico - Earthquake Rehabilitation And    Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Reconstruction                    Reconstruction Project - Loan 2665
Emergency Rehabilitation and      North China Earthquake Reconstruction     Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Reconstruction                    Project - Credit 2091
Emergency Rehabilitation and      Armenia Earthquake Reconstruction -       Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Reconstruction                    Credit 2562
Emergency Rehabilitation and      El Salvador - Earthquake Reconstruction   Satisfactory     U1nsatisfactory
Reconstruction                    Project - Loan 2873
Implementation   Development
Ongoing Projects                                   Project                   Progress         Objective
Emergency Rehabilitation and          Honduras Hurricane Emergency -        Satisfactorv      Satisfactory
Reconstruction                        Loan 3159
El Nifio Emergency Recovery Project   El Niuo Emergency Recovery Project
(Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, etc)         (Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia,) - Loan      Satisfactory      Satisfactory
4257-EC
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
According to OED's Precis No. 174 of 1998, the following are the main lessons of Bank experience with
natural disaster response, all of which have been incorporated in the project design:
*   project design should be simple, based on extensive participation by the local
community/beneficiaries, and take into account local implementation capacity;
*   implementation should be flexible to ensure responsiveness to community needs. Attempts to



-10-
use the emergency operation to promote social reform, relocation, and land acquisition should
be avoided;
*  if feasible, in situ reconstruction should be promoted to take advantage of existing
infrastructure and community facilities, while minimizing resettlement and its attendant
social dislocation. This should be combined with self-help efforts in low-cost reconstruction;
*  along with the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure, local vulnerabilities should be
identified and addressed so as to be reduced in ways that lead to durable solutions. To ensure
the sustainability of infrastructure reconstructed after the disaster, long-term measures to
address disaster mitigation should be devised. Options to be considered (within the context
of what is affordable) include financial incentives, land use and management practices, a
review of land tenure patterns, upgraded building codes and enforcement programs, training
for construction craftsmen, and other nonstructural measures to lessen vulnerability;
*  approaches selected should be cost-effective. Thus, while families should be allowed to
rebuild according to their tastes and incomes, they should also be provided with guidance in
disaster-resistant building techniques, as well as appropriate ilcelntives. Low-cost
reconstruction is desirable, but economizing on the structure of buildings is not cost-effective
given recurrent disasters. Extremely poor areas, informal settlements, and areas where
building codes are not enforced require special treatment;
*  to avoid reconstruction delays, streamlined decision-making and procedures for contracting
civil works should be put in place;
*  emergency projects require a strong positive cash flow and special attention to the design and
implementation of disbursement arrangements. To meet these requirements, the emergency
loan should be quick-disbursing, and bottlenecks to cash flow should be minimized through
provision of guidelines, sample bidding documents, technical assistance to first-time
borrowers, and simple local disbursement procedures;
X emergency assistance should promote equitable development. For example, a policy to deal
with renters in the post-disaster context is required. The use of public money to provide
multiple housing replacements for the wealthy, while doing nothing for the renter, is
inequitable;
* local institutions should be strengthened so that they are better able to cope with the current
event and stronger the next time around. Institutional development objectives should be
stated in emergency recovery project documents, and they should include measurable
indicators so that the degree to which they are attained is verifiable.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In order to provide immediate relief, key institutions in the disaster-affected region such as the Coffee
Growers Association and the Solidarity Network worked closely with national and local governments to
assist the most seriously affected families and communities. To implement reconstruction activities, and
after reaching consensus that the private sector and NGOs were best equipped to do so, the GOC moved
quickly to engage qualified NGOs. Furthermore, the GOC has issued essential legislation for a speedy
implementation of reconstruction efforts and provided temporary housing for 24,000 people and over $5.0
million in resources to assist these communities. The GOC also legislated a new tax on financial
transactions to help fund the reconstruction effort. This tax is expected to generate close to US$1.0
billion in funds.



-Il1-
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's role as a knowledge institution and its international experience in other disaster relief
operations have been vital in the design of this operation. The Colombian authorities have sought the
Bank's advice in shaping the policies and procedures that govern the project. For example, the direct
subsidy scheme for housing and the inclusion of assistance to vulnerable renters were the direct result of
consultationis with the Bank. Since the day of the disaster, the Bank has worked closely with the GOC in
identifying priority actions for FOREC and in establishing the guidelines for the reallocation of funds
from four existing loans. Bank involvement has also been important in identifying environmental and
social issues, especially those related to the more vulnerable groups, and in providing guidance for the
formulation of appropriate policies to deal with them. The Bank has also provided guidance to FOREC
with setting up appropriate financial management and accounting systems. Bank support from the
Resident Mission has helped in numerous areas, especially in project design and the provision of advice
on environmenital issues and in the preparation of the Project Operations Manual.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic and Fiscal Impact:
Because the project is meant to restore assets destroyed by the earthquake, it is not expected to generate
any additional fiscal responsibilities. However, the reconstruction costs would have put pressure on1 an
already delicate fiscal situation. To deal with this problem, and as was said before, the GOC enacted a
new tax on financial transactions which is expected to generate close to US$1.0 billion in funds to help
finance the reconstruction effort. The additional revenues generated by this tax should offset the public
finanice gap created by the earthquake.
2. Technical:
All subprojects would be included in Zone Reconstruction Plans and implemented upon their approval by
FOREC. Zone Reconstruction Plans would be prepared by the corresponding NGOs in collaboration with
the impacted communities and local authorities. The investment program of each zone would be defined
according to damage assessments of physical and social losses.
To ensure sustainable solutions for housing and infrastructure reconstruction, INGEOMINAS is doing the
micro-zoning of the disaster-affected area. This would provide information on four different types of
vulnerability: seismic, volcanic, landslides and flooding. A risk map for each municipality would define
high-risk areas and those suitable for construction. The reconstruction effort would require that structures
be built or repaired to the 1998 seismic-resistant building code, which meets international standards.
Public infrastructure (i.e., schools, hospitals, and water, sewerage and power systems, etc.) would be
reconstructed according to sector standards and regulations. The corresponding utility or regulatory
agency would ensure fulfillment of these norms. The design and construction would be contracted with
foreign and local consulting firms.
All subprojects would be subject to an independent technical supervision. FOREC would directly
contract supervision when the NGO is the executing agency or for contracts above US$ 75,000.00
equivalent. Otherwise, NGOs would be responsible for supervision. NGOs would also be responsible for
the training of local construction workers. This training would focus on1 new building techniques and
disseminating knowledge of seismic-resistant building codes and standards. It is expected that up to
2,000 construction workers would be trained.



-12-
3. Institutional:
a. Executing agency (FOREC):
As discussed above, FOREC is responsible for approving, monitoring, supervising and evaluating the
reconstruction and social development activities in the region. As the reconstruction program has a
clearly participatory approach and builds upon the strong social capital in the region, all activities would
be developed in collaboration with the community and managed by NGOs with guidance from state and
municipal governments. The model of intervention for the reconstruction and social development of the
disaster-affected region is therefore based on a decentralized model.
Although FOREC has no executing capacity of its own, it has put together an important team of
professional advisors on reconstruction and social development issues. FOREC's board of directors and
executive director will base their policy decisions on the technical advice of 13 senior FOREC sector
professionals, who meet as the National Technical Committee. In addition to these 13 sector
professionals, FOREC is comprised of 5 finance and budget staff, 5 legal advisors, 30 junior professional
staff, and 20 support staff. FOREC headquarters is located in the City of Armenia.
With regard to the management of funds, FOREC has established fiduciary accounts with a financial
institutioni to fund approved reconstruction and social development activities, including payments to
NGOs and other contractors and suppliers hired directly by FOREC or NGOs. FOREC has in place an
integrated financial system (RECREAR) that ensures adequate financial and accounting controls. Other
project implementation mechanisms, such as external audits and community supervision would provide
adequate levels of control to ensure the transparent use of funds.
b. Project management (NGOs):
As mentioned before, management of project activities would be carried out by the 32 NGOs selected by
FOREC. These NGOs have been selected according to criteria agreed upon with the Bank through a
competitive process. The criteria were defined in order to ensure the selection of highly qualified NGOs.
Such criteria included number of years of operation, amount of contracts executed, proof of relevant
technical capacity, etc.
4. Social:
The project has put social development at the heart of its approach and one of the objectives of the project
is to restore social capital. Specifically, the project would target the housing subsidies to benefit the most
vulnerable social groups, i.e., low-income families, including renters, in both urban and rural areas (see
Annlex 5, Table C, for percentage of population suffering losses by income strata). The intervention
model involves a highly participatory, inclusive approach. No negative social impacts are foreseen as a
result of the project. On the contrary, it is expected that there would be positive impacts on the groups
most affected by the earthquake.
The project is expected to generate the following social benefits: (i) about 75,000 direct and 25,000
indirect jobs for skilled and semiskilled laborers; (ii) housing subsidies to an estimated 76,000
beneficiaries between owners and renters; and (iii) increase in social capital gained through the
partnership between local government, NGOs and community.
5. Environmental assessment:         Environmental Category     [ ] A     [X] B       [ ] C
The GOC has in place an established system of environmental laws and regulations. Immediately after
the earthquake, several environmental experts from the GOC, IDB, and the Bank visited the affected zone



-13-
to review the situation. In line with the findings and recommendations of these experts, the GOC
prepared an Environmental Management Plan (see Annex 6 for a detailed discussion of environmental
issues and a summary of the Plan). A final version has been submitted and found to be satisfactory to the
Bank. This Plan has the following objectives: (i) mitigate the environmental impacts of the earthquake;
(ii) ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated into the region's reconstruction program;
and (iii) ensure that natural resources are available for the reconstruction and that they are managed in a
sustainable manner. Specifically, the Plan provides environmental guidelines for the following: (i)
demolition of damaged buildings; (ii) erosion control; (iii) transportation of materials; (iv) management of
liquid and solid waste, including hazardous materials; (v) management of construction activities to
minimize air and noise pollution; and (vi) measures related to public safety. Among the main areas of
focus are:
(a) demolition, debris removal and appropriate disposal. During the rescue phase, it was essential to gain
access to the victims and, therefore, debris was dumped in several temporary holding sites. Since that
time, debris has been recycled when possible and permanent sites have been identified for the
disposal of non-recyclable debris. Studies are currently underway to locate additional permanent
sites. It is estimated that about 50 percent of the debris has been removed in the disaster-affected
region and that, in Armenia, this percentage reaches 70. However, most of this debris has been
placed in temporary disposal locations, which are not suitable for final disposal. In some cases, these
locations present a public health and safety risk. The GOC, with support from the IDB, has
contracted an Italian consulting firm to prepare a feasibility study for debris disposal and recycling in
the 28 municipalities affected by the earthquake.
(b) sustainable harvesting of bamboo used in housing construction. Bamboo is an important resource for
the reconstruction of the region. Over the last few months, the demand for bamboo has increased.
For the most part, this demand is being met by the available supply produced in the region. However,
as the reconstruction effort intensifies, there is considerable concern that the harvesting of the
region's bamboo will not be sustainable in addition to creating additional environmental hazards. The
local environmental agency has a program to foster commercial bamboo plantations. This agency
will provide technical assistance and bamiboo seedlings while the municipalities will provide land and
labor;
(c) mitigating measures for public safety, land and materials management, air quality and noise levels
during construction; and,
(d) prevention of resettlement in hazardous and vulnerable zones. Relocated families are entitled to
monetary compensation according to Presidential Decree No. 196 of January 30, 1999. To ensure
durable solutions to reconstruction, the GOC has started to identify vulnerable areas where
constructioni would be either prohibited or subject to strict enforcement of enhanced building codes.
Most of the urban areas in the region occupy areas identified as highly susceptible to seismic events
as well as at high risk for flooding and mud slides. Most of these settlements are along hillsides and
in natural drainage areas. This situation is particularly acute in Armenia where thousands of families
reside in high-risk areas. Following the earthquake, Armenia's mayor signed a legal decree (No.
0072) declaring these areas at high risk. With support from FOREC, INGEOMINAS is preparing a
study to identify areas of high seismic risk for the 28 municipalities that were impacted by the
earthquake.
A special committee comprising representatives from local and national environmental agencies,
including a representative from FOREC, has been established to oversee the implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan. Through NGOs, FOREC's environmental specialist will work in close
collaboration with the disaster-affected communities to address environmental issues.



-14-
6. Participatory approach:
The model of intervention designed for the reconstruction and social development of the disaster-affected
region, based on the principles of participation, decentralization and transparency, is highly inclusive of
key stakeholders. The structure and functioning of the mechanisms established under the reconstruction
program facilitate the representation and negotiation of the interests of the parties concerned. In effect,
FOREC's board of directors is made up of nine members representing government, private and civil
society sectors. The management of project activities will be carried out by specialized NGOs in the
urban area and by the Coffee Growers Association in rural area. These organizations, in turn, would
collaborate closely with local government and organized beneficiary groups.
Key stakeholders would play a major role in the identification of needs, as well as the design,
organization and implementation of activities. The subprojects comprised in the reconstruction plans for
each zone would reflect a consensus among citizens and local authorities. FOREC and the NGOs would
be accountable to local governments, communities and beneficiary groups by providing public
information on a continuing basis. Citizens committees have been formed to oversee the implementation
of this process.
This model of intervention is viewed by the GOC as an opportunity to try out a new approach to regional
development. It is hoped that the expanded use of this model could contribute to bringing about lasting
economic and social gains, as well as to establish an environment for peaceful co-existence.
The table below summarizes the key beneficiaries and stakeholders of the project and the level of
participation expected, using four critical dimensions: information sharing (IS); consultation (CO); joint
decision-making (DM); and self-management (SM).
Primary Beneficiaries       Information    Consultation    Joint Decision   Self
Sharing                      Making       Management
Owners and Renters                      X              X
Local Govemments                        X              X              X
Local NGOs                                             X              X
Producers                                              X              X              X
Public officials of social services     X              X              X
Other Stakeholders         Information    Consultation    Joint Decision   Self
Sharing                      Making       Management
FOREC                                   X              X              X              X
NGOS of Management Zones                 X             X              X              X
Departmental Government                 X              X              X
Other Donors (nat. intern.)             X              X              X              X
General Public                          X              X
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As this project addresses an emergency situation, no provision will be made to carry over the
organizational structure or direct budgetary support beyond the project execution timeframe. However,
the project would finance the strengthening of both national and local governments' ability to respond to
future natural disasters. In addition, the reconstruction of public infrastructure and housing will be done
according to the 1998 seismic-resistant building codes, thus ensuring the sustainability of project outputs.



-15-
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                  Risk fating             Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Major earthquakes would hit the area      N         The project would improve the capacity of both
during the reconstruction phase.                    national and local governments to respond to natural
disasters.
Lack of incentives to attract             M         Public communication campaign to stress the dangers
participants for housing unit                       of not reconstructing according to adequate seismic
reconstruction with adequate seismic                standards. In addition, local governments would
standards.                                          strictly enforce building codes.
From  Components to Outputs
Lack of coordination among                 S        Stress the importance of effective consultation and
governmental/non-governmental                       communication among these entities.
organizations and beneficiaries.
Poor qualification process followed for    S        Project launch workshop would stress proper
selection of local contractors.                     qualification processes.
Lack of transparency in the               M         Strengthen the checks and balances in the existing
development of community                            participatory approach used in the development of
reconstruction plan.                                community reconstruction plans.
Deterioration of security situation       M         Strengthen the economic regeneration of the coffee
within the project area.                            region to mitigate against the infiltration of guerrilla
movements.
Inadequate supply of building materials   M         Strengthen competition by allowing national and
available on the local market.                      international suppliers to enter the regional market.
Overall Risk Rating                       M         ___
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(a) political sensitivities could arise from having NGOs brokering between local authorities and the
disaster-affected communities; and,
(b) the participatory, decentralized and transparent model adopted for the operation has resulted in delays
in the start up of reconstruction activities. However, it is expected that this model would ensure
enhanced governance and, thus, produce better results in the end.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Established a set of final indicators, acceptable to the Bank, required to monitor the progress of the
project and the attainment of its objectives.
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Financial: within eighteen months after the expected date of Board approval, carry out a time-bound
action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the Borrower's financial



-16-
management system in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 20, 2001, to
prepare quarterly Project management reports acceptable to the Bank.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ / ] 1. b) Not applicable.
[ / ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ V ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[  4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
a) a monitoring and evaluation system required to check implementation progress of the project
and the attainment of its objectives; and
b) a financial management system that would enable the Borrower to prepare quarterly project
management reports acceptable to the Bank.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
/] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leaders:' Eleoterio Codato and C ieuff
Sector Manager/Direct    anny M. Leipziger
Country l   ager/Director: Andres Solimano



-17-
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring & Evaluation               Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:        (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Mobilize existing and new project   *   Positive trend in regional    *   Government economic       *   The poor will benefit from
resources to facilitate rapid recovery   GDP growth following Jan.      statistics and reports;         restoration of infrastructure
from the earthquake of January 25,       25, 1999 earthquake.                                           and rural sector recovery in
1999, in support of the CAS goal of                                 *   Bank analytical work            the region;
infrastructure restoration and rural                                    (occasional)
sector recovery.
Project Development Objective:   Outcome I Impact                   Project reports:                (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Project beneficiaries resume normal    *   Significant increase in the    *   FOREC quarterly reports;    *   Effective coordination
economic and social activities as a      number of housing starts and                                   among various donors
result of the restoration of essential  the number of repaired      *   Supervision mission reports;    during the recovery period.
housing and basic infrastructure built   facilities meeting seismic
according to adequate seismic            standards in the earthquake-  *   Evaluation mission reports
standards.                               affected areas.                (mid-term & final);
*   Progressive reduction in the
number of families living in
temporary quarters;
*   Significant improvement in
economic indicators which
reflect a positive trend in the
earthquake-affected areas;
*   Reconstruction & micro-
zoning plan implemented in
earthquake affected areas.
Output from each component:         Output Indicators:              Project reports:                (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Access restored to participant-owned 1. 100% of completed housing    *   FOREC quarterly reports;    *   No major earthquakes
housing units in target areas through    units funded under the project                                  during the reconstruction
reconstruction activities which comply  comply with seismic & other  *   Independent participant        phase
with adequate seismic standards.    construction I building standards
in the 1998 Building Code, 100%     audit reports, designed to  *   Adequate incentives in
of participants receiving subsidies  verify standards compliance    component I to attract
qualify under the project's         and participant qualifications  participants for housing unit
definition of target group (as      (periodic);                     reconstruction with adequate
measured by independent and                                         seismic standards.
periodic random audits of      *   Supervision mission reports;
participants, designed for
statistical validity).
*   Evaluation mission reports
2. Public access restored to a minimal  2. 100% of social infrastructure  (mid-term & ICR);
level of social infrastructure in target   funded under the project,
areas, with NGO management.         according to priorities identified   *   Report from the team of
and plans agreed between            international experts in
government agencies and affected    emergency preparedness
communities, comply with            (output 4);
seismic & other standards;
*   Beneficiary survey report
3. Public access restored to a minimal  3. 100%/oof public infrastructure  (for output 5);
level of public infrastructure in target  funded under the project,     Financial and technical audit
areas                               according to priorities identified   *   Finacia (semi-annual)
and plans agreed between
govemment agencies and affected
communities, comply with
seismic & other standards;



-18-
C,overnment capacity to respond to  4. Micro-zoning studies
,mnilar public emergency situations  completed; satisfactory response
en1hanced.                           times achieved by government
entities as part of emergency
simulation exercises; favorable
review of emergency
preparedness by independent
team of international experts;
Social disruption minimized during  5. Favorable perception of
r construction efforts.              beneficiaries regarding the
government and NGO role in the
delivery and management of
reconstruction activities (as per
beneficiary survey).
Project Components / Sub-            Inputs: Implementation           Project reports:                 (from Components to
components:                          Indicatorsl budget for each                                       Outputs)
component
1. Shelter Assistance                 1. US$ 150 million.             .   FOREC quarterly progress   *   Effective coordination
Rkpair and reconstruction                                                  reports;                         among governmental/non-
c:about 43,480 units                                                         .             .     .          governmental organizations
pai ially damaged, about                                              *   Miistry of Housng project         and beneficiaries.
I    0 totally damaged                                                                             *   Rigorous qualification
a-c about 18,420 units                                                *   Ministry of Transport and         process followed for
sn nicturally damaged in                                                   Local Water Authority            selection of local
t''C affected zone.                  2. US$ 75 million.                    prqject reports (component       contractors;
2. Rehabilitation and Retrofitting of                                      ),                          *   Open and transparent
Social Infrastructure                                                 *   Disbursement reports             community reconstruction
Conncessionary funding for priority                                        (quarterly);                     pan development;
rairofitting of vulnerable structures                                                                       plan
4iiCh survived the earthquake but                                    *   Audit reports (annual)       *   Security situation within the
project area remains stable;
a icl are not in compliance with
o   Adequate supply of building
cir i ent or proposed new building code                                                                     materials available on local
r_cuirements in the affected zone.                                                                          market;
3.  US$ 115 million.
3. Rehabilitation of Public
I nfrastructure
R,coverv and restoration of water and
scAerage systems, power systems, and
a:rport and other transport terminals,
among others, in the affected area.
4. Capacity Building for Natural    4.  US$ 7 million
Disaster Management
S-rongthening of prevention, mitigation
ana management skills of public sector
!nc i ces.
5. Social Capital Restoration
Pain icipatory processes for rebuilding
CEMr mLinities.
6. Project Management                6. US$ 19.75 million
S rcngthening of project management
canacity. including consultant's
scrvices in connection with the shelter
cnmponent.
Total: US$ 222.75 million



-19-
Annex 2: Project Description
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Component I US$150 million
SlhelterAssistance. This component would fund the repair and reconstruction of about 43,480 units partially damaged,
about 17,550 totally damaged and about 18,420 units structurally damaged in the affected zone. It would finance
subsidies, in the form of grants, to owners of units who meet criteria established by the GOC and agreed to by the Bank.
Subsidies would be based on the actual cost of repair or rebuilding subject to a maximum amount of US$6,000 equivalent
per unit, which would provide a minimum housing solution for each eligible family. It would also assist the GOC to
provide a subsidy for new house construction to displaced renters who are characterized as vulnerable (i.e., female head of
household, the elderly and those in poor health). Other renters in the affected zone will be given special priority in the
GOC's ongoing housing subsidy program.
Project Component 2 - US$ 75 million
Rehabilitation and Retrofitting of Social Infrastructure. This component would consist of retrofitting of vulnerable
structures which survived the earthquake but which are not in compliance with current or proposed new building code in
the affected zone. This component would finance the rebuilding and repair of social infrastructure, such as governnenit
office buildings, fire departments, prisons and others, as well as social infrastructure, such as schools, health facilities,
child care centers, churches, community centers, cultural centers, homes for the elderly, public markets, slaughterhouses
and others. It would also finance the consulting services required for the design and supervision of such subprojects.
Project Component 3 - US$ 115 million
Rehabilitation of Public Infrastructure. This component would provide funding for rebuilding and repairing damaged
water and sewerage, power, and transport systems, as well as environmental protection investments, in the affected area,
including consulting services required for the design and supervision of such subprojects.
Project Component 4 - US$ 7 million
Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management. As part of the reconstruction effort associated with a natural
disaster, there is also a need to prepare reconstruction plans which emphasize the strengthening of prevention, mitigation
and management skills of public sector agencies. Important studies to be undertaken include microzoning, land use
mapping, geological and geo-technical research, feasibility studies for debris disposal and the preparation of new building
codes. The Government of Italy will support some of these studies through parallel financing. In addition, this
component would finance works and the purchase of equipment (seismic and other) associated with disaster prevention
and mitigation efforts supported by the project.
Project Component 5 - US$ 8 million
Social Capital Restoration. This component will finance the cost of activities aimed at restoring social cohesiveness in
affected communities. Such activities may include community hearings and workshops to enhance cultural and
community spirit, psychological support to affected families, etc. It would also finance the purchase of equipment
required for carrying out such activities, and the design and implementation of training programs as well as studies aimed
at strengthening the communities' capacity to re-establish the livelihood of the most vulnerable groups, such as the
training of construction craftsmen, for example.
Project Component 6 - US$ 19.75 million
Project Management. This component would help finance project management costs incurred by FOREC, such as
consulting services and training required to strengthen its project implementation capacity, the purchase of vehicles and
equipment, the design and implementation of a communication campaign, and incremental administrative costs under the
project, such as the salaries of its technical staff. It would also finance consulting services needed by FOREC or any of
the 32 Zone Managers in connection with the implementation of the Shelter Assistance Component, such as those for
house damage assessments and supervision.



-20-
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
-70l ~Projet Cot  SyioC onient                                  LJS million0  ___________.,
Shelter Assistance                                     150.00           0.00         150.00
Rehabilitation and Retrofitting of Social Infrastructure  63.75        11.25         75.00
Rehabilitation of Public Infrastructure                103.50          11.50         115.00
Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management        4.90           2.10           7.00
Social Capital Restoration                               8.00           0.00           8.00
Project Management                                      19.75           0.00         19.75
Total Baseline Cost                                    349.90          24.85        374.75
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                349.90         24.85         374.75
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                     2.25           2.25
Total Financing Required           349.90         27.1          377.00
Note: Both physical and price contingencies would be calculated for each individual sub-project financed under
the project but, because of the project's programmatic approach, are not known in advance and, therefore,
not presented above.
__ StVProjiectI9W6 Cost  1y0 Caeor                              ,milo
Goods                                                   40.62           5.50         46.11
Works                                                   117.08         15.93         133.00
Services and Training                                   39.25           3.43         42.68
Housing Grants                                         150.00           0.00        150.00
Incremental Operational Costs                            2.97           0.00          2.97
Total Project Costs                349.90         24.85         374.75
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                     2.25           2.25
Total Financing Required           349.90         27.10         377.00



-21-
Annex 4: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
Procurement
Procurement Process Responsibility. The project implementation will require procurement of a
limited quantity of goods but a significant process of construction and employment of consulting
firms and individual consultants to carry out consulting and other technical assistance services.
FOREC, the project's executing agency, will be responsible for the overall procurement
regulation and supervision activities, including compliance with procedures agreed with the Bank
through the Project Operations Manual. FOREC has entrusted the primary responsibility for most
of the financed procurement activities under the project to about 32 Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) or not-for profit civil society organizations. These NGOs were selected
following consultation with the Colombian Confederation of NGOs immediately after the
earthquake, and subsequently at the Bank's request, following a public advertisement and
prequalification process acceptable to the Bank. FOREC has assigned supervisory
responsibilities on procurement to qualified staff with vast experience on IDB operations and now
familiar with the Bank's Guidelines and procedures. The publication of a General Procurement
Notice in the United Nations Development Business is expected to be published in January, 2000.
FOREC will provide the NGOs, known as Zone Managers, with a Procuremnent Operational
Manual prepared by DNP and FOREC, closely reflecting Bank's procedures and outlining all
procedural aspects of procurement under the project. In addition, a procurement workshop,
involving FOREC staff and all of the participating NGOs, was carried out in October, 1999. The
workshop focussed on specific procurement arrangements under the Project.
Procurement Plans. Given the nature of the project, which consists of the housing and
reconstruction of a large number of small and scattered public infrastructure damaged by the
earthquake and as well as the de-centralized implementation scheme through NGOs, is not
possible to develop a detailed procurement plan for the project's goods, works, and consulting
services. Notwithstanding the above, FOREC will maintain a procurement plan listing contracts,
methods amounts and key dates of contracting and implementation to register the aggregate
amounts assigned to the various procurement methods. These aggregate amounts were
established on the basis of the experience with the restructuring of four existing lending
operations processed immediately after the earthquake packaging with due consideration to
applicable bidding procedures and process scheduling; and consultant selection process for the
project's consultant services, including possible contract packaging at the district or inter-district
level. The procurement plan and consultant selection process plan will be updated periodically,
every 6 months. The plans include the (i) list of contracts completed, under execution, under
procurement, to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent
semester; (ii) costs of completed and under execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming
contracts; (iii) schedule of bidding; and (iv) particular methods of procurement of goods or
selection of consultants.
Methodsfor Bank Financed Procurement. Bank financed goods and works will be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement (published in January 1995, revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for ICB procedures financed
procurement. The Bank's financed consultant services will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (published in



-22-
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 and provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used for Bank's financed
consultant services. The project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A.
Metlhods for Non Bank Financed Procurement. Project procurement not financed by the Bank
will be carried out in accordance with procedures established in the Operational Manual, but not
necessarily the same procedures that apply to Bank-financed procurement which appears in
Annex C of the Operational Manual. Procurement arrangements under parallel financing from
the IDB would be the responsibility of the Borrower and the co- financiers. The IDB operation
will finance the same type of goods, works and services as the Bank in the same geographical
areas using procedures (thresholds and methods) very close to those agreed with the Bank.
FOREC will decide which loan will finance each sub-project on a one-by-one basis.
Bank Financed Housing, Works, Goods and Associated Procedures. The shelter assistance
component will consist of payments of direct subsidies to beneficiaries for the repair or
reconstruction of damaged houses. There are no procurement methods involved in this
component. The beneficiaries will use the proceeds of the subsidy to pay for their own
arrangements for the repair and construction of houses. The NGOs will provide technical
assistance to the individual beneficiaries. Any procurement of civil works costing more than
US$5.0 million and goods costing more than US$350,000 would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Additionally, contracts for civil works costing US$5.0
million or less, but more than US$500,000 will be procured on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (up to an aggregate of US$60.0 million) or Simplified National Competitive Bidding
(up to an aggregate of US$40.0 million), using procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
civil works costing US$500,000 or less will be procured on the basis of quotations from at least
three qualified local contractors (up to an aggregate of US$6.0 million). Contracts costinig less
than US$50,000 will be procured through direct contracting (up to an aggregate of US$3.0
million). Contracts for goods costing between US$200,000 and US$ 350,000 will be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) up to an aggregate of US$13.7 million or
Simplified National Competitive Bidding up to an aggregate of US$15 million, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 up to an
aggregate of US$ 10.0 million will be procured on the basis of quotations from at least three
qualified local suppliers. Goods and services required for carrying out activities under the Social
Capital Restoration Component, costing less than US$15,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount of US$4.0 million, may be procured through community participation as set forth in the
Operational Manual. Goods of a proprietary nature or spare parts in individual packages costin1g
US$10,000 or less will be procured through direct contracting up to an aggregate of US$2.3
mill ion.
Bank Financed Consulting Services and Associated Procedures. The proposed project would
finance consulting services for: (i) project implementation support and audits; (ii) coordination
and monitoring; and (iii) project preparation and (iv) project supervision (or interventorias). A
few of these services will be carried out directly by FOREC, but the majority will be hired by the
2 Simplified NCB is a procurement method commonly used in emergency and recovery projects,
consisting of a formal invitation to bid to qualified bidders previously known by the
implementing agency as good performers in other projects. The simplified NCB implies the use
of standard bidding documents, bid security and evaluation criterion in the bidding documents.
Also, bids have to be responsive and adhere to all the requisites and requirements as in NCB;
however, there is no public advertisement.



-23-.
Zone Managers (NGOs).
The project's selection and employment of consultants will be carried out under arrangements
acceptable to the Bank. Most of the project's studies, implementation supervision, and finalncial
and procurement audits would be carried out following Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) procedures. Other consulting services estimated to cost less than US$100,000,
including long-term individual consultants to assist FOREC, would be carried out on the basis of
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) method. The hiring of individual consultants, up to an aggregate
amounit of US$7.0 million, will be carried out on the basis of their qualifications for the
assignment, as per Chapter V of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers. Single-source selection of consultants for carrying out activities under
the Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management and Project Management componenits, up
to an aggregate amount of not more than US$0.5 million would be allowed, in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter III of said guidelines.
Procurement Review. Bank's procurement review will be in accordance with Appendix I of
Guiidelines for Procurement and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. All
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and QCBS will be subject to prior review. Any direct
contracting for civil works and goods beyond the aggregate amounts or the use of other
procurement methods under the guidelines but not listed above will require prior review. All
contracts with individual consultants costing US$50,000 or more will be subject to prior review
by the Bank, including terms of reference, qualification, experience, and terms of employment.
All contracts with1 consulting firms costing US$100,000 or more but less thani US$200,000 will
be subject to prior review by the Bank of terms of reference, short list of firms, the results of the
technical evaluation, and the draft contract. All contracts with firms costing US$200,000 or more
will be subject to prior review by the Bank of all the selection docunentation and the draft
contract.
In addition to the regular tasks of prior and ex-post reviews, the Bank may also carry out spot
checks of the quality and consistency of its financed procurement work, with the objective of
strengthening the fiduciary responsibilities. If misprocurement is detected in the ex-post review,
FOREC would exclude the subprojects from Bank-financing; however, loan funds would not be
cancelled given the programmatic nature of the project.
The implementation of procurement arrangements under the project will be subject to
independent procurement audits carried out by FOREC twice yearly using terms of reference and
hiring procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the procuremenit of goods,
works, subsidies and consulting services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in
the process and procurement activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be
maintained by the NGOs (or Zone Managers) for procurement carried out by them. FOREC will
mainitaini records, summaries and lists of procurement actions authorized under each sub-project
in a project information system. Procurement actions to be carried out by FOREC anrd the inter-
institutional agreements will be kept safely by FOREC at headquarters in Armenia. These
records will be maintained for at least two years after the project's closing date. The records for
goods and works will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening
informationi, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts
with related addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other
useful information. The records for consulting services will include public notices for expression
of interest, request for proposals and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appeals by
consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and



-24-
dispute resolution and any other useful information.
Non-Bank Financed Components. Custom duties and taxes (as provided in the General
Conditions, Section 5.08), local dealers' commissions and mark-ups (in accordance with OP
12.00), operating costs, including fuel, operation and maintenance of vehicles, and temporary
personal services would not be financed under the Loan.
ProcurementRiskAssessment. The Country Procurement Review (CPAR) for Colombia is
dated April 1997. A key aspect for defining the level of prior review has been the procurement
capacity assessment of FOREC and the participation of civil society organizations in project
implementation. The methods, thresholds and review levels are also consistent with those applied
by the Bank in the reformulation of four existing loans to help the Government in the
reconstruction of the disaster-affected region and by the IDB in its parallel co-financing
operations. The assessment involved interviews with officials of FOREC and the NGOs. Based
on this assessment, and taken into account that the current procurement law (Law 80) stipulates
that the procurement policies and procedures of the international financiers apply to projects
financed by them, the project's procurement risk rating assessment is average.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average     X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: one every 6 months, including special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
Retroactive financing: Retroactive financing, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$45.0
mil'lion, may be made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures incurred within
twelve months before the date of loan signing. This aggregate amount represents 20 percent of
the loan amount and is within the limits on retroactive financing set in OP 12.10 of January 1995.
It is justified given the high speed of project implementation observed under the four Bank loans
restructured to respond to the emergency, especially in the case of housing grants under the
project's Shelter Assistance Component.
Disbursement
The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures according to Table C.
Bank funds would be disbursed against Statement of Expenditures: (a) for training, housing
grants and incremental administrative costs; and (b) under all contracts that are not subject to
prior review by the Bank. All other expenditures will be documented with the withdrawal
applications. FOREC will also be able to base their disbursements on Project Management
Reports (PMR) once they start producing them. FOREC will be responsible for keeping all
accounting documentation. Supporting documents would be kept by FOREC and the Zone
Managers for at least one year after the end of the fiscal year in which FOREC would had the last
expenditures.



-25-
Audits and Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs):
The project will be subject to two types of audits: (i) financial audits of the project account of
FOREC; and (ii) technical audits, including procurement audits, to verify that the activities
followed the eligibility criteria and were implemented in an efficient manner. Both audits will be
conducted every six months by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, under terms of
reference also satisfactory to the Bank. The audit reports will be submitted within two months of
the end of the audited period. The audit of project accounts would include separate opinions on,
among others, sources and uses of account funds, internal control, special account and statement
of expenditures (SOEs).
Special Account:
In order to facilitate disbursements, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in a
commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, to be maintained in US dollars, with an authorized
allocation in the amount of $22.25 million. Given the need for a strong positive cash flow to
support reconstruction activities, the initial deposit would be for the full amount of the authorized
allocation for the Special Account, that is, US$ 22.25 million. Payments out of the Special
Account would be made exclusively for eligible expenditures under the project. When FOREC
moves to disburse on the basis of PMRs, the advances into the Special Account would be related
to a six month project budget. In such a case, the advance into the special account would not
exceed US$44.5 million. Replenishment of the Special Account would be made on a monthly
basis in accordance with withdrawal applications sent by the Borrower. When disbursement is
based on PMRs, replenishment would be made quarterly.



-26-
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Housing Grants                                                  150.0                     150.0
(100.0)                   (100.0)
2. Works                                    24.0       100.04        9.0'                    133.0
(24.0)     (38.4)       (7.6)                    (70.0)
3. Goods                                     5.1        28.77       12.3'                     46.1
(5.1)     (15.8)       (4.5)                    (25.4)
4. Consultant's services and training                               42.7                      42.7
(25.4)                    (25.4)
5. Incremental Administrative Costs                                  3.0                       3.0
(1.9)                     (1.9)
6. Front-end Fee                                                     2.3                       2.3
(2.3)                     (2.3)
Total                                    29.1       128.7       219.3                     377.0
(29.1)     (54.2)     (141.7)                   (225.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Housing Component; Subsidies; Private Procedures by Private Beneficieries;
4 NCB = US$ 60 million; SNCB = US$ 40 million
5Quotations for Minor Works = US$ 6 million; Direct Contracting US$ 3 million
6 NCB = USS 13.7 million; SNCB = US$ 15 million;
7,Shopping = US$ 10 million; Direct Contracting: US$ 2.3 million
s Communication campaigns, salaries and operating costs in accordance to an agreed bi-annual plan



-27-
Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior RevieW
ExpenditUre              Contract Value,             Procurement            Contracts Subject to
Category                 (Threshold)                  Method                  Prior Review
US $ thousands
1. Works
5,000                  ICB                       All                24.0
>5,000                  NCB or SNCB                First 3 Contracts
<500                   Quotations                None
<50                                             All beyond aggregate
2. Goods
350                  [CB                        All                5.1
>200                   NCB or SNCB               None
<200                   Shopping                  None
<10                   Direct Contracting        Ali beyond aggregate
3. Services
>200                   Firms QCBS                All
>100                   Consultants'              All except for technical
qualifications            evaluation report
>50                  Individuals CQ             All
50 or less          Individuals                All TORs
Sole source               All beyond aggregate
Subtotal Services                           37.7
4. Miscellaneous
Bi-annual Plan            All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                     66.8
9 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



-28-
Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
mffl Mate,!!i0 Aft        RMZFin Hianc   ig.Nce t
Housing Grants                                  90.00                100% of amounts disbursed
Civil Works                                  63.00                100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
Goods and Equipment                               22.87               100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
Consultants' Services and Training                22.88                           100%
Incremental Administrative Costs                   1.72                            85%
Unallocated                                  22.28
Total Project Costs                              222.75
Front-end Fee                 2.25                            100%
Total               225.00



-29-
Annex 5: Housing Policy
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
Affected Families. Overall, it is estimated that approximately 60% of the 136,000 shelter units
in both urban and rural areas of the affected zones suffered some type of earthquake damage.
Approximately 7,000 of these units are in rural areas while about 76,000 are in urban areas. Of
those located in urban areas, units with minor damage comprise about 54% of the total
(approximately 41,000), with the remaining 46% (approximately 34,000 units) being those with
structural or total damage. Tables A, B, and C contain greater details on urban housing sector
losses and the income strata of the affected groups.
The region has a relatively large proportion of residents who are renters or owners of multiple
units, not all of which are occupied throughout the year. For the urban areas, there are about
18,000 owners who lost their units and about 16,000 renters who lost the units in which they
lived. Additionally, soon after the earthquake, a significant but unknown number of persons fled
the area (one reason for the large number of unaccounted-for persons in early casualty reports).
Many of these people are now returning, but again, definitive figures are not available. It is thus
difficult to avoid double counting and get very accurate shelter data in such a situation.
Losses. Because of the large number of unlits, their heterogeneity and the type of damage
sustained, it is difficult to accurately quantify the losses suffered for shelter units. A survey by
CEPAL shortly after the earthquake puts the total estimated shelter losses (both urban and rural)
at about US$800 million. Some of the families had insurance coverage (either as part of
mortgage conditions or on their own account). However, details on the number of claims and
loss-payments are not yet available. As noted in Table C, the majority of the population fall in
the three lowest income strata. Most of them were uninsured. The characteristics of the units lost
or damaged reflect the low income strata of the residents (small living space, poor construction
quality, low quality material, poor location, etc.).
Temporary Shelter. Currently, there are about 17,000 families in 29 temporary shelters (e.g.,
stadiums, soccer fields, invaded coffee farms) scattered throughout the affected zone.
Additionally, about 5,000 families are on the lots where the they lived before the disaster struck
while another 15,000 share living facilities with other families whose units were not damaged or
who have repaired their units on their owin. A common problem in such emergencies is the
attempt by non-affected groups to be included in the program designed for victims. While some
"leakages" have occurred, it appears that the authorities have enough documentation through
censuses on file to minimize its impact. There could nevertheless be some long-lasting negative
outcome if the temporary shelter sites or the vacated plots in vulnerable areas are occupied by
non-affected families after they are vacated by the affected families. During project
implementation, this situation will be monitored to help prevent such occurrences.
Government Shelter Assistance Program. The GOC has a prepared a shelter-reconstruction
program to assist both owners whose units were either damaged or lost as a result of the
earthquake, as well as renters who were living in units which were destroyed and are now living
in shelters. Additionally, the program provides assistance to help re-locate residents who either
lived or are living in vulnerable seismic zones. It also incorporates several features aimed at
providing priority assistance to vulnerable families (female-headed, those with young children,
handicapped residents, etc.). The following is a description of the shelter reconstruction program
for the various affected groups.



-30-
Options Offered. Assistance to qualified affected residents is in the form of either direct
subsidies or subsidized credits. While there may be some special cases where a qualified
beneficiary can receive both types of assistance (e.g., an owner could receive a direct subsidy to
rebuild his or her unit and a subsidized commercial credit to rebuild or repair a rental unit),
beneficiaries have to make a choice between a direct up-front subsidy or the subsidized credit.
There are also provisions and incentives in place to prevent resettlement in vulnerable zones and
to assist existing residents of such zones to move to safer sites.
Direct Subsidy. The direct subsidy program provides a one-time subsidy to qualified
beneficiaries for use exclusively for the repair, reconstruction or acquisition of a new unit which
must, among other things, comply with thie updated building code. It covers actual losses
ilcurred, up to a specified level, after taking into account any insurance payment received by the
applicant. The subsidy is offered to all owners who suffered losses from the earthquake,
irrespective of their income level. However, there are provisions for limitilg the assistance
offered to such groups as relatively wealthy owners with expensive units or owners of multiple
units. An additional point to note in this context is that, as showni In Table C, the majority of
residents of the affected zone fall in the lowest three income strata and so the risk of having
wealthy residents benefiting disproportionately is rather small.
Subsidized Credit. Under this option, beneficiaries can opt for a credit of up to COP 120 million
(approx. US$60,000), with subsidized interest rate from participating commercial banks. The
subsidy is in the form of monthly payments made over the life of the loan, covering any
difference between the commercial lending rate charged by the lender and the CPI. There is also
a sliding-scale modifier to the CPI, decreasing the interest subsidy offered as the unit price rises
to the allowable limit. This option does not appear to be as attractive as the direct subsidy and
only about fifty families have so far expressed interest In it. Additionally, from the supply side,
only three banks have so far shown interest in making such subsidized loans.
Owners. There are several groups of owners, viz. those suffering damages and able to sh1ow
legal titles and those without such titles. A third group is made up of those whio suffered losses
but cannot rebuild on their lots because it is in a vulnerable zone, and those who may not have
suffered losses but do live in vulnerable zones.
Direct subsidy assistance for these groups is in the form of a grant to cover actual losses suffered
up to a maximum of COP 8 million (approx. US$4,000) per family. If the beneficiary lives or
lived in a vulnerable zone, apart from the COP 8 million, there is an additional payment of COP 4
million (US$2,000) to acquire the lot which has to be vacated, thus assistilg the owner to
purchase a lot in a less vulnerable site.
Renters. Families who lost the units they rented are entitled to subsidy assistance amounting to
COP 5.9 million (US$2,950) toward the acquisition of their own home if they provide proof that
they: (a) earn less than four minimum salaries or about US$480 per month, (b) were renting a
unit on January 25, 1999 (the date of the earthquake); (c) were forced to seek alternate shelter
because the unit was destroyed and (d) do not own any other shelter unit in the country (owning a
plot of land is not a disqualifying factor).
In selectilg families for subsidies within this group, there is also a formula wlich seeks to give
priority weights to such factors as (a) whether or not the applicant lives in a temporary shelter
(maximum of 20 points); (b) number of children in the family (maximum of 20 points); presence
of handicapped residents (maximum of 5 points); (c) type of unit to be acquired (maximum of 20
points for the smallest size); (d) women-headed household (10 poilts); owin saviigs (maximum of



-31-
20 points) and (e) number of times the family was turned down before (5 points for three times or
more unsuccessful requests).
Rural Shelter Reconstruction. FOREC has designated the Federaci6n Nacional de Cafeteros as
the lead entity for rural reconstruction works in the coffee-growing areas. Its program is very
advanced at this time, having provided subsidies and credits to approximately 4,500 families for
about COP 1.8 billion (approximately US$1 million). Rural residents with damaged or destroyed
units are being assisted under criteria similar to those of the urban areas. FNC uses a blend of
FOREC subsidy and a separate credit program for such families. According to the periodic
reports of the FNC, it is has already passed the midway point in its assistance program. The
FOREC assistance program is available for other rural (non coffee growers).
Financing. Based upoIn available data, and assuming that the number of beneficiaries and/or
repair costs do not increase substantially, indications are that there will be sufficient funding for
all of the owners and renters who will require subsidies under the shelter reconstruction
component. The funding sources identified so far include the GOC's earmarked tax levy (an IVA
surcharge), municipalities, the Bank, IDB, USAID and the beneficiaries themselves. The
Government has decided to use approximately US$100 million from the proposed loan for the
shelter reconstruction component. Bank Project funds would be used only to partially finance the
direct subsidy program for owners, the disbursements being made as the subsidies are paid out to
the beneficiaries. The GOC has identified the other resources (via FOGAFIN) to filance the
subsidized loan component.
For the renter subsidy program, the Government has also already identified the funding sources.
These comprise the Caja de Compensaci6n Familiar (CCF), USAID, beneficiaries and NGOs.
The CCF will allocate 10% of the resources it manages over the next two years as grants for
shelter reconstruction in the affected zone. From this source, it is expected that about US$20
million would become available. While there are some conditions favoring CCF members above
noni-members, a survey within the affected area shows that only about three thousand are
members of the CCF. The preference program for CCF funds should not therefore crowd out
other beneficiaries.
From the USAID, about US$10 million is being made available for shelter grants to renters and
there is also expected to be various in-kind contributions from municipalities, beneficiaries and
NGOs. All of these funds will be used in the rental subsidy program as outright grants.
Many of the temporary shelter units have material which are of very good quality and can be used
for starter homes once beneficiaries acquire or are assigned a lot. Also, many municipalities have
urbanized or semi-urbanized lots which they plan to make available to some beneficiaries. If
these two in-kind sources are taken into account, they can help to meet any funding deficit which
may arise in the rental shelter assistance program.
Implementation Arrangements. FOREC and the NGOs which are responsible for the various
zones have in place a well-defined system for identifying, screening and selecting beneficiaries
for the direct subsidy and subsidized credit programs for all groups. The finance, administrative,
monitoring and follow-up processes are also well-defined, with a good built-in and transparent
system of control and accountability. One very commendable feature is the preparation and
widespread dissemination of a very comprehensive yet readable publication (with ample
illustrations) tracing all key steps for each target group to follow in order to get the appropriate
assistance. The operation manual also contains a clear step-by-step presentation covering all
phases of the program. Some of the key steps are as follows:



-32-
a) Affected families apply to the Zone Manager's offices in the municipal area where they live.
Owners take their ID and proof-of-ownership cards while those without title take their ID and
any other documents which could support their ownership claim (cadastre location, tax
receipts, service receipts), along with a sworn document from five owners living in the same
zone attesting to the fact that the applicant has occupied the property.
b) If the damaged unit is in an area which is identified as a vulnerable zone, the applicant has to
submit a certificate from the authorities verifying that the lot is not one which is to remain
unoccupied.
c) After a legal declaration at the zonal level, data from the document is then entered into a
computer where it is analyzed and checked against several data bases (ownership, vulnerable
zone, duplication of claims, residency before the earthquake, etc.). Documents clearing this
phase are then forwarded to the engineering section.
d) At the engineering section, technical staff visit the site where they do a detailed loss
evaluation. For units totally lost, photos are taken of the lot. For partially-damaged units,
apart from two pictures of the front and back, they also prepare an estimate of the physical
quantities of inputs needed to effect the repairs. For units already repaired by the owner, they
document and verify the extent of work done so that such owners can also be compensated
for their losses if they qualify. All reconstruction or repair works must comply with the
updated building codes.
e) The field data is entered into the computer where, using unit costs developed by the insurance
sector, a proposed reconstruction or repair budget is prepared. This information is then
discussed with the applicant who has the option of agreeing with the assessment or appealing
the decision and requesting another evaluation. For those who agree with the analysis, the
next decision would be whether to accept a direct subsidy or take a subsidized credit. If the
proposed repair or reconstruction cost exceeds the subsidy offered, they can complement this
with their own funds or request the design for a more affordable unit.
f) The zone manager next sends the package to FOREC where another cross-check is made with
various data bases to assure that all conditions are being met by the applicant. FOREC's
Board reviews the documents after they are screened and approves or rejects the application,
providing reasons for any rejection.
g) Approved applicants who seek subsidized loans are advised to arrange their loans through
commercial banks where the necessary interest rate subsidy arrangement would be worked
out with FOGAFIN. Those seeking direct subsidies are given letters through the zone
managers indicating the amount of subsidy they are entitled to and stipulating the conditions
governing use of the subsidies.
h) The recipient of a direct subsidy has to open an account in a bank where the funds would be
deposited. Withdrawals from the account would depend upon the manner in which the
repairs or reconstruction works are done. If the zone manager is designated by the
beneficiary to do the work then withdrawals are authorized by the zone manager. If the
recipient decides to hire his or her own contractor, then the joint withdrawal signatures are
those of the recipient and a consultant appointed by the zone manager to supervise the work
of the contractor. If the sum involved is less than COP 2.4 million (US$1,200) the subsidy is
paid in one payment; if it is greater, payments are made in two tranches.



-33-
i)  For renters, after passing through the verification system, applications are forwarded by the
zone managers to the regional Cajas (for both Caja and USAID funds), where they are
reviewed and accorded priority according to the criteria described earlier. (USAID and non-
Caja funds which are administered by the Caja will not be subject to the member-preference
rule of the Caja). If the recipient wishes to buy a unit, he or she can make the arrangements
and the Caja will effect the payment of the direct subsidy portion to the seller of the unit or
lot. If the recipient wishes to construct a unit, then the zone manager will be asked to
supervise the work and authorize payments according to the degree of advance of the work.
FOREC estimates that the above funding sources will cover the demand for housing subsidies
to renters. In case these are not sufficient, FOREC will use up to 10% from Bank loan
proceeds to cover any funding gaps.
While at first glance these procedures may appear long and cumbersome, data gathered so far
shows that it is not so. One reason is that there are thirty-two different zone managers with multi-
offices in several zones. Additionally, the zone managers have capable staff and computerized
systems with easily-accessible data bases for the screening and other analytical work. At various
levels, the staff communicate frequently with FOREC staff with both hard copies and electronic
files.
Eligibility Criteria for Allocation of Housing Subsidies
* House must be registered in the official census carried out after the earthquake
* Zone Manager must certify the type of damage and the agreed course of action: (i) repairs;
(ii) reconstruction; (iii) relocation
* Zone Manager must verify that the house and lot are not located in an area of high risk
* Zone Manager has estimated the value of the repairs or reconstruction
Owner or occupier of the house must provide documentation that the repair or reconstruction
work will be undertaken by licensed contractors
* Works comply with environmental and seismic regulations
* In the case of relocation, a detailed relocation plan will be submitted prior to receiving the
subsidy



-34-
TableWA: SummaryofLosby TpeandZoneTbf e n   qe
Non-Rented Housing Units
Number of Units with:
Total # of    No       Minor       Not      Totally   Unknown
Units    Damages  Damages Habitable  Damaged
Caldas                              152          4        117         10         20          1
I           Chinchind        152          4        117         10         20          1
Quindio                          43,245      5,988     21,455      7,770      7,825       207
i            Arnmenia    29,014       4,845     13,547      5,264      5,234        124
2           Buenavista       133          2         78         24         29          -
3              Calarca     5,857        386      3,276      1,026      1,148         21
4             Circasia      1,070        91        614        162        194          9
5             C6rdoba        350         22        136        119         73          -
6             Filandia       436          9        337         27         63          -
7              Genova         83          2         78          1           -         2
8          Le Tebaida      2,441        374      1,037        725        292         13
9          Montenegro       1,454       110        797        194        346          7
10                Pijao       724         50        358        111        188         17
1 1          Quimbaya        1,441        82      1,021        105        221         12
12              Salento       242         15        176         12         37          2
Risaralda                         7,706        374      5,465       502       1,310        55
1              Pereira     6,352        323      4,467        426      1,093         43
2        Dosquebradas        935         34        669         52        170         10
3             Marsella       177          6        142          5         24          -
4  Santa Rosa de Cabal       242         11        187         19         23          2
Tolima                            1,090         18        853         59        158          2
I           Cajamarca      1,038         17        808         59        152          2
2         Roncesvalles        52          1         45           -         6          -
Valle del Cauca                   3,117         58      2,586        101       362          10
I              Alcala        329         10        283         20         15          1
2              Argelia        64           -        45          9         10          -
3              Bolivar        66           -        63          1          2          -
4           Caicedonia      1,039        26        802         29        177          5
5          La Victoria       249          1        195         15         37          1
6             Obando         360          4        338          5         13          -
7              Sevilla       741         13        633         19         73          3
8                Ulloa       269          4        227          3         35          -
Total:                      L   55,310       6,442     30,476      8,442      9,675       275
Units with minor damages have broken windows, missing roof covering, missing cladding material.
Units not habitable are those with missing roofs and missing (repairable) support structures.
Units totally damaged are those which have collapsed or cannot be repaired.
Source: DANE data and Mission Estimates



-35-
Table B: Summary of Losses by Type and Zone
Rented Housing Units
Number of Units with:
Total # of    No        Minor       Not       Totally   Unk
Units    Damages  Damages  Habitable  Damaged   nkn
Caldas                                19          2         14           3
I           Chinchina          19          2         14           3          -
Quindio                           27,555      3,331      8,916       7,956      7,240        112
I             Armenia    18,500        2,586      5,562       5,486      4,807         59
2           Buenavista         66          4         27          1 0        25
3              Calarca      4,153        257       1,491      1,049      1,336         20
4              Circasia       314         30         145         52         84          3
5             Cordoba         179         12         58          62         46           1
6              Filandia        77          5         58           -         14
7              Gehova          25          3         21           -          I           -
8           Le Tebaida      2,429        243        753       1,012        411         10
9          Montenegro         921         97        394         147        279          4
10                Pijao        482         50        179         104        136         13
11           Quimbaya          374         41        209          31         91          2
12              Salento         35          3          19          3         10
Risaralda                          2,559        236       1,487       289         521         26
1              Pereira      2,426        213       1,412       278         499         24
2        Dosquebradas          97          17         58          6         14          2
3             Marsella         12           1          9          -          2           -
4  Santa Rosa de Cabal         24          5           8          5          6
Tolima                               193          3        136          16         38
I           Cajamarca         188          2        133          16         37
2         Roncesvalles          5           1          3          -           I          -
Valle del Cauca                      283         35        182          16         48          2
I               Alcala         28          2         23           2          1
2              Argelia          6           -          4          -          2
3              Bolivar          I           1          -          -           -          -
4           Caicedonia        149          14         87         11         35          2
5           LaVictoria          I           -          I          -           -          -
6              Obando          27          2         24           1           -
7               Sevilla        51         16         28           2          5
8                Ulloa         20           -         15          -          5           -
Total:                            30,609      3,607      10,735      8,280      7,847        140
Units with minor damages have broken windows, missing roof covering, missing cladding material.
Units not habitable are those with missing roofs and missing (repairable) support structures.
Units totally damaged are those which have collapsed or cannot be repaired.
Source: DANE data and Mission Estimates



-36-
TableQC: Percentage of Population Sfr                         os  by Income Strata
Income Strata:
1          2          3           4           5          6
Caldas
I            Chinchina
Quindio
I             Armenia           10         14          50         22'          3           1
2           Buenavista          72         26           2           0          0           0
3               Calarca         19         44          33           4          0           0
4              Circasia         21         41          37           1          0           0
5              C6rdoba          20          80          0           0          0           0
6              Filandia         28          56         16           0          0           0
7              G6nova           23         64          12           0          0           0
8           Le Tebaida          16         68          16           0          0           0
9          Montenegro           28         63           9           0          0           0
10                 Pijao         25         28          47           0          0           0
11            Quimbaya           50         41           9           0          0           0
12               Salento          7         86           7           0          0           0
Risaralda
I               Pereira         20          13         25         24          10           8
2         Dosquebradas          20          32         34           7          7           0
.  3           Marsella
4   Santa Rosa de Cabal         43          15         36           7          0           0
Tolima
I           Cajamarca            6         27          67           0          0           0
2          Roncesvalles         19          24         57           0          0           0
Valle del Cauca
I               Alcala          42         50           8           0          0           0
2               Argelia          0          73         27           0          0           0
3               Bolivar         25         42          33           0          0           0
4           Caicedonia           5          47         46           2          0           0
5           La Victoria         70         30           1           0          0           0
6              Obando           45          43         12           0          0           0
7               Sevilla         26         43          26           5          0           0
8                 Ulloa         25         72           4           0          0           0



-37-
Annex 6: Environmental Issues and Management Plan Summary
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
Background. The Borrower has in place a legal framework and system of environmental laws
and regulations. Additionally, under Bank Loan 3973, the GOC is receiving technical assistance
aimed at improving the operation of its Ministry of Environment (MinAmbiente). Immediately
after the earthquake, several environmental experts from the GOC, IDB, Italy and the World
Bank visited the affected zone and reviewed the situation.
In line with the findinigs and recommendations of these experts, the Borrower prepared an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which, among other things, lists various measures to be
taken to reduce adverse health and environmental impacts of reconstruction activities and
identifies additional studies and activities to be undertaken during project implementation. A
special committee comprising representatives from local and national environmental agencies,
including a representative from FOREC, has been established to oversee the implementation of
the EMP. FOREC's environmental specialist will work in close collaboration with the affected
communities, through NGOs assigned to each district, and with the environmental agencies and
consultants to address project environmental issues and to initiate and contribute to other specific
project-related activities.
Environmental Impacts and Risks. The Borrower and the Bank have identified the following
environmental issues: (a) building demolition, debris removal and appropriate disposal; (b)
sustainable harvesting of bamboo (used in housing construction); (c) public safety, land,
materials, air quality and noise levels are properly managed during construction; and (d)
prevention of resettlement in hazardous and vulnerable zones in the project area. The latter is
complemented by a monetary compensation (established by Presidential Decree No. 196 of
January 30, 1999) offered to owners of plots in such vulnerable areas, as an incentive for them to
settle in safer zones.
During the rescue phase, there was urgent need to gain access to the victims and so debris was
dumped in several temporary holding sites. Feasibility studies have been prepared which identify
permanent disposal sites for debris and, where appropriate, recommendations on recycling.
As for the harvesting of bamboo (guadua), the GOC is working with various NGOs and
community groups to help promote substitution of other acceptable building material where
possible. At the same time, the Regional Corporations (CRQ and CARDER) who have legal
authority over the management of natural resources will monitor the cutting of bamboo and will
take steps to ensure that there is no overharvesting. Overexploitation of bamboo could result in
an increased risk of flooding, landslides and soil erosion especially along hills and mountainsides.
To prevent resettlement in areas of high seismic risk, the GOC has identified several zones where
housing or other similar use would be prohibited. With the assistance of the Government of Italy,
there are studies underway to map out additional vulnerable zones in the coffee-growing region.
The Legal Framework Post-earthquake Environmental Management. Among the most
important existing laws which in part address environmental problems associated with natural
disasters are: (i) Law 9 1989, Relocation of Settlements in High Risk Zones; (ii) Decree 919
1989, Institutional Responsibilities for Disaster Management; and (iii) Decree 93 1998, National
Plan for Prevention andAttention to Disasters. In addition, the GOC has in place laws that



-38-
mandate the preparation of municipal land use plans (ordenamiento teritorial) which will
highliglht areas of high risk to natural disasters. Since the earthquake, various levels of
government have prepared and approved laws and decrees to supplement and reinforce the
existing legal framework. The most important of these are: (i) Decree 350 1999, Suspension of
Environmental Prerequisites in the Eje Cafetero, (ii) Decrees 195 and 223 1999, Requirements
for the Use of Natural Resources during the Reconstruction; and (iii) Decree 0072 1999,
Declaration of High Risk Areas in Armenia.
In addition to the formal legal mechanisms, key institutions in the reconstruction effort have
signed cooperation agreements that provide technical support to projects whose primary objective
is to mitigate environmental problems. Some of the most important of these are: (i) FOREC-
INGEOMINAS (July 26,1999) "Zoning of Areas of High Seismic Risk"; (ii) CRQ/ Municipality
of Armenia (October 1999), "Bamboo Reforestation in High Risk Areas". The INGEOMINAS
work will include the preparation of maps with recommendations on land use for 28
munuicipalities. The results of these studies will be included in the municipal land use plans that.
are under preparation.
Progress on Environmental Management since the Disaster. At project appraisal, the GOC
and environmental specialists from CRQ estimated that about 50% of the building debris had
been removed. The estimate for Armenia is somewhat higher at about 70%. Most of the debris
has been placed in temporary disposal locations, which are not considered technically suitable for
final disposal. In some cases, these locations present a considerable public health and safety risk.
The GOC with support from the IDB has contracted an Italian consulting firm to prepare a
feasibility study for debris disposal (including recycling) in the 28 municipalities affected by the
earthquake "Informe Preliminar. Manejo Integral de Escombros y Residuos de Construcci6n"
(August 1999). The EMP takes the results of this study into account and suggests a management
process for ensuring that over the long term the debris is disposed of in an environmentally safe
manner.
Bamboo (guadua) is an important resource for the reconstruction of the coffee-growving region.
Over the last few months, the demand for bamboo has increased and is for the most part being
met by the available supply produced in the region. At the same time, exports of bamboo to other
regions of Colombia have declined dramatically due in part to the needs resulting from the
earthquake but also to reduced demand from the building industry associated with the economic
recession. Over the longer term, there is considerable concern about overexploitation of bamboo
as the reconstruction effort intensifies and demand increases from other regions of the country. In
an effort to address the potential for overexploitation the Regional Corporation of Quindio (CRQ)
has prepared a project that provides a framework for increased cultivation of bamboo. The
National Center for the Study of Bamboo will play a major role in assisting communities with the
development of bamboo reforestation programs along with the establishment of bamboo
plantations. CRQ has also signed a series of agreements with a number of municipalities which
permits the establishment of commercial bamboo plantations. CRQ will provide technical
assistance along with bamboo seedlings while the municipality will provide land and labor.
Resettlement in Areas of High Seismic Risk. Most of the urban areas in the coffee-growing
region have human settlements that occupy areas identified as highly susceptible to seismic
events. Many of these areas are also considered high risk for flooding and mud slides. The most
numerous of these areas are along hillsides and in natural drainage areas. This situation is
particularly acute in Armenia where thousands of families occupy high risk areas. Followilg the
earthquake, Armenia's mayor has signed a legal decree (No. 0072 1999) declaring these areas as
highi risk.



-39-
The GOC has recognized the importance of ensuring that new human settlements during the
reconstruction effort avoid areas of high seismic risk. INGEOMINAS with support from FOREC
is preparing a study will identify areas of high seismic risk for 25 municipalities that were
impacted by the earthquake. The results of these studies will be included in each municipalities
Land Use Plan (POT) and serve as a policy tool for preventing future settlements in these areas.
Other studies will be undertaken which will assist municipalities in incorporating environmental
considerations into urban zoning.
Public Safety in Construction Areas. The GOC has also prepared environmental guidelines for
activities that will be supported during reconstruction. These guidelines will serve as both a
checklist of actions to ensure public safety and as a management tool for: (i) demolition of
damaged buildings; (ii) control of erosion: (iii) transportation of materials; (iv) management of
liquid and solid waste, including hazardous materials; and (v) managemenit of construction
activities to minimize air and noise pollution. Additional measures related to public safety are
proposed in the project's Environmental Management Plan.
Socio-economic Characteristics. While the earthquake impacted both urban and rural
communities, the urban centers of Armenia and Peirera incurred the greatest degree of damage.
Within the urban areas sector, low-income residents living in older rental structures and in
hillside settlements adjacent to natural drainage areas suffered considerable economic and
personal property loses. Public space is poorly developed and in some areas non-existent. Some
of these areas are also adjacent to temporary sites for disposal of construction debris.
Since the earthquake, GOC ministries, independent agencies and institutes along with NGOs have
worked to obtain and develop accurate data bases on populations affected by the disaster. This
information served as an important input into the Environmental Management Plan. Specifically,
communities that are most likely to be negatively affected by reconstruction activities have been
identified. Zone management teams working in these communities will be provided with the
EMP along with specific Sector Environmental Guides (SEG) which provide clear design
methods and actions to mitigate environmental impacts associated with reconstruction activities.
The Environmental Management Plan. The first draft of the project's Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was reviewed by the Bank project preparation mission and discussed
with the LCSES Environmental Specialist and the Quality Control Group. A revised EMP was
presented to the Bank Appraisal mission. That mission provided detailed comments on the EMP.
A revised EMP was submitted to the Bank shortly after the completion of the mission. The
following sections summarize the project's EMP.
Objectives. The EMP has the following objectives:
(i) Mitigate the environmental impacts resulting form the earthquake of January 25,1999;
(ii) Implement actions to ensure that environmental considerations are ilcorporated into
the region's reconstruction program along with the overall reactivation of the region's
economy;
(iii) Ensure that natural resources are available for the reconstruction and that they are
managed in a sustainable way;
(iv) Provide the region with the technical, organizational and natural resources necessary
to rebuild in a sustainable way and ensure that appropriate measures are taken to
reduce risks to human life related to possible future natural disasters.



-40-
Institutional Responsibilities. Following the earthquake the GOC, an "Environmental
Coordinating Committee" (ECC) was established comprising the Vice-Minister of Environment
(MinAmbiente), the Directors of the Regional Development Corporations of Quindia and
Risaralda (CARs), and the Environmental Specialist of FOREC. The ECC has an established set
of operating rules and will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the EMP.
The primary functions of the ECC are to: (i) coordinate the implementation of project activities
identified in the EMP; (ii) review reports submitted by other public agencies involved in
reconstruction activities; (iii) evaluate and prioritize environmental investments; (iv) assure that
the EMP and the Zone Action Plans are implemented in a complementary way. In addition to the
ECC, a Regional Environmental Management team will be established in CRQ to prepare
projects, budgets and legal contracts. They will also be responsible for ensuring that
environmental investment projects are coordinated with the overall reconstruction effort. They
will deliver progress reports on a trimester basis to the ECC.
Strategic Focus. In addition to targeting the most important environmental problems associated
with the earthquake, the EMP will serve as an important planning tool for the reconstruction
effort. The CARs will play a key role in this regard through the provision of technical assistance
to municipalities and zone managers in urban environmental management, land use planning, and
transfer of clean/sustainable technologies (Decree 350 1999). Technical support will also include
efforts to stimulate organizational processes, public participation, and the renewal of community
and regional identity. Environmental education will be the primary vehicle and approach for
delivering this technical support.
Process. The process for EMP implementation will require participation by national, regional and
local government entities, NGOs and community organizations, and the private sector. Screening
of infrastructure investments in the housing, transport, health and education sectors will be
undertaken by the CAR. Each CAR will review investments based on their compliance with
Sector Environmental Guides (SEG) which have been prepared under the direction of the
Ministry of Environment. These guides have been included as Annexes to the EMP and will be
made available to each zone management team in the 31 Management Zones. SEGs have been
prepared for: (i) housing/building construction; (ii) materials transport/roads; (iii) civil works; (iv)
water supply and sewer systems; (v) solid and liquid waste management; and (vi) natural
resources use and exploitation. In addition, social action plans have been prepared which
establish a process to ensure community participation in the reconstruction effort. Community
overseer groups will be established in each zone and be responsible for ensuring compliance with
the EMP.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The implementation of the EMP will not be monitored and evaluated
as a separate set of activities but will be included as part of the overall project monitoring and
evaluation exercise which has been described in Annex 1. Several indicators will be in place to
monitor compliance and make any required adjustments.
Proposed Environmental Investment. A key element in the EMP is the development of well
targeted environmental investments to be financed under the project.



-41-
Annex 6, Table A: Proposed Environmental Investments
Investment Project                 Total Cost         Responsible Institutions
(thousands of US
dollars)
Municipal government strengthening for              432,500 CRQ, CARDER, CVC,
environmental management, land use                           CORTOLIMA, CORPOCALDAS
planning, and disaster prevention
Planning and development of ecotourism-Los          350,000 CRQ, CARDER, National Parks
Nevados National Park                                        Administration
Technical Assistance for Sectoral Env.               250,000 Ministry of Environment, CARS,
Management:                                                  NGO's
Integrated management of debris generated          2,205,500 Municipalities, Zone Management,
by the earthquake.                                           NGOs
Technical Assistance to the Environmental            170,000 Universities, NGOs, other public
Mining Plan for the use of construction                      organizations
materials
Development of sustainable management              2,375,000 CARs, NGOs, The Bamboo
systems for bamboo                                           Research Center, community
organizations
Stabilization and recuperation of degraded         4,860,000 CARs, Zone Management Teams,
hillsides                                                    municipalities, NGOs
Mitigation of seismic risk in the urban centers              INGEOMINAS,              CARS,
universities
Integrated management of urban watersheds          1,500,000 CARs, Zone Management Teams,
and improved protection of drainage areas                    NGOs
Strategic environmental investments                  602,000 CARs, municipalities
Environmental auditing of Reconstruction             100.000 FOREC, Ministry of Environment
Plan implementation
Strengthening and institutional support for          150.000 FOREC, Ministry of Environment,
the Regional Development Corporations in                     CARs
the departments of Quindio and Risaralda
Total                                            14,000,000



-42-
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Recovery Project
P,rojt ScJ e4uq   Plannd                                                     Actua
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           9 months               9 months
First Bank mission (identification)                  2/1/1999               2/1/1999
Appraisal mission departure                         10/11/1999             10/10/1999
Negotiations                                        02/14/2000             02/14/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       04/17/2000
Prepared by:
Fondo para la Recontrucci6n y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero (FOREC)
National Planning Department (DNP)
Preparation assistance:
Italian Consultant Trust Fund          US$493,000
Canadian Consultant Trust Fund          US$42,000
Core Project Preparation Team:
Name              Bank Unit    Borrower Agency           Role/Responsibility
Eleoterio Codato        LCSFP                               Team Leader
Connie Luff             LCC4C                               Team Leader
Issam Abousleiman       LOAEL                               Disbursement Officer
Jairo Arboleda          LCCCO                               NGO Spec/ Social assessment
Jose Augusto Carvalho   LEGLA                               Legal Counsel
Gary Costello           LCSFP                               Consultant/ Environment
Mauricio Cuellar        LCCCO                               Projects Officer/Procurement
Natalia G6mez           LCCCO                               Projects Officer
Efraim Jimenez          LCOPR                               Procurement
Alexandra Ortiz          LCSFP                              Urban Economist
Thakoor Persaud         LCSFP                               Economist/Housing
Livio Pino              LCOAA                               Financial Management
Juan David Quintero     LCSES                               Environmental Specialist
Juan Pablo Ruiz          LCCCO                              Consultant/ Environment
Antonio Trivizo         LCSFP                               Team Assistant
Alcira Kreimer          TWURD                               Peer Reviewer
Eugene McCarthy         LCSFP                               Peer Reviewer
Luis Carlos Villegas                     FOREC              President
Everardo Murillo                         FOREC              Executive Director
Teresa Lozano                            FOREC/DNP          Advisor
David Bersh                             FOREC               Health Specialist
Lucia Gonzalez                          FOREC              NGO Specialist
Jorge Ramirez                            FOREC              Rural Development Spec.
Silvia Ramirez                          FOREC               Housing Specialist
Eduardo Uribe                            FOREC              Environment Specialist
Manuel Salazar                           DNP                Chief, UPRU
Diego Fernandez                          DNP                Advisor, UPRU



-43-
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Reconstruction Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*  Reglamento Operativo para la Reconstruccion del Eje Cafetero (FOREC's Project
Operational Manual); FOREC, November 8, 1999.
*  Modelo de Contrato para el Desarrollo de Servicios de Administracion Zonal (Model
Agreement for the Implementation of Zone Management Services)
* Plan de Acci6n Ambiental para la Recuperacion y el Desarrollo Sostenible de la Region del
Eje Cafetero (Environmental Management Plan); FOREC, April 25, 1999.
The above documents can also be found at http://www.forec.gov.co/
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Bank BTO's and Aide-Memoires (*)
e Proposed Amendment to the Loan Agreements (for Loans 3615, 3683, 3871 and 3973)
C. Other
X Minutes of PCD (Loan Amendment) Meeting
e El Terremoto de Enero de 1999 en Colombia: impacto socioeconomico del desastre en la
zona del Eje Cafetero (Socioeconomic Impact of the Disaster in the Eje Cafetero);
UNDP/CEPAL, April 27, 1999.
Legal Agreements, National Resolutions and Decrees (http://www.forec.gov.co/)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Difference
between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions      and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY              Borrower                        Purpose             IBRD      IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig    Frm
Rev'd
CO-PE-39082  1999  INVIAS                             TOLL ROAD CONCESSION            137.10    0.00     0.00    100.00   40.00     0.00
CO-PE-50576  1999  GOVERNMENT                         YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                 5.00    0.00     0.00      4.79    0.79     0.00
CO-PE-46031 1998  GOVERNMENT                          MAGDALENA MEDIO                   5.00    0.00     0.00      3.38    0.13     0.00
CO-PE-46112  1998  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA             PASTO EDUCATION                   7.20    0.00     0.00      5.89    1.19     0.00
CO-PE-53243  1998  MINHACIENDA                        PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z              5.00    0.00     0.00      4.59    0.29     0.00
CO-PE-6861   1998  FINDETER                           URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE            75.00    0.00      0.00    70.32    0.32      0.00
CO-PE-6891   1998  GOV OF COLOMBIA                    ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION             40.00    0.00      0.00    38.74    3.64      0.00
CO-PE-40102  1997  GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   REG.REF.TA                       12.50    0.00     0.00     11.69    4.70     0.00
CO-PE-6884   1997  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA             FIN MRKTS DEV TA                 15.00    0.00     0.00    13.37    6.87      0.00
CO-PE-39291  1996  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA             URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA            20.00    0.00      0.00     12.99   10.97     0.00
CO-PE-6872   1996  BOGOTA DISTRICT GOVERNMEN  URBAN TRNSPRT                           65.00    0.00      0.00    42.93   26.95      4.75
CO-PE-6887   1996  GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   POWER MARKET DEVELOP           249.30    0.00      0.00    67.26   29.18    16.52
CO-PE-6894   1996  GOVERNMENT                         SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL            145.00    0.00     0.00    89.87   66.20      0.00
CO-PE-6880   1995  GOVERNMENT OF CLM                  AGRICULTURE TECHfNOLO           51.00    0.00      0.00    37.30   21.00      0.00
CO-PE-6893   1995  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA             ENERGY TA                        11.00    0.00     0.00      3.55    3.55     0.00
CO-PE-6866   1994  GOV. OF COLOMBIA                   SECONDARY EDUC                  90.00    0.00      0.00    54.99   43.26      11.52
CO-PE-6868   1994  GOV OF COILOMBIA                   NATURAL RESOURCE MAN            39.00    0.00      0.00    17.81    10.82    10.37
CO-PE-6889   1994  GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA                PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN             30.00    0.00     0.00      4.60    4.60     0.00
CO-PE-6854   1993  GOV OF COLOMBIA  IA                MUNICIPAL HEAL'IIH SER           50.00    0.00     0.00    30.30   27.29    19.29
Total:  1,052.10    0.00    0.00   614.37  301.75    62.45



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval           Company                      Loan       Equity     Quasi      Partic     Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic
1963/90               Coltejer                         6.32       0.00       0.00      0.00        6.32       0.00       0.00       0.00
1969/85/88/93/95      CF del Valle                     0.00       0.00       7.43      0.00        0.00       0.00       7.43       0.00
1977/89/92/94/96      Promigas                        12.21       0.00       1.13      33.83      12.21       0.00        1.13     33.83
1981/85/87/89/91/92/94  Leasing Bolivar                4.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        4.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1987                  PRODESAL                         0.00       0.00       0.59      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.59       0.00
1990/92               ODC                              2.89       0.00       0.00       6.77       2.89       0.00       0.00       6.77
1994/95               Corfinansa                       0.00       0.00       1.43      0.00        0.00       0.00        1.43      0.00
1995                  Corfinsura                      13.06       0.00       0.00      0.00       13.06       0.00       0.00       0.00
1995/97               Icollantas                      11.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       11.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1996                  Proyectos                        9.64       0.00       5.00       0.00       4.17       0.00       5.00       0.00
1997                  Suleasing                       30.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        7.43       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:               89.12        0.00      15.58     40.60       61.08       0.00      15.58      40.60
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                      Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00



-46-
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Reconstruction Project



-47-
Colombia at a glance                                                                 9/99
Latin   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  Income       Development diamond*
1998
PoDulation. mid-vear (millions)                       40.8       502       908                 Life expectancy
GNP Dercaoita Atlas method. US$1                     2.600     3.940     1.710                 L
GNP tAtlas method, US$ billions)                     106.1     1.978     1.557
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
PoDulation (%)                                         1.9       1.6       1.1
Labor force /%l                                        2.7       2.3       1.5     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate liatest vear available. 1992-981                              capita                       enrollment
Povertv 1% of Dooulation below natonal ooveflv linel   1 B
Urban oonulation (% of total oooulatlon                74         75        58
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                       70         70        68
Infant mortality (oaer 1.000 live bi,ths)              24         32        38    !
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5              8          8                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of ooDulatlon                  75         75        75
Illiteracv (% ofDooDutaon aoe 15+)                      9         13        14
Gross nrmarv enrollment (%of school-aoe oooulaton)    113        113       103         ' Colombia
Male                                                113         ..      105    |          Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              112          .       100
KEY ECONOMIC RAllOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
GDP (USS billions)                           19.5     36 4     108.6    102.9       E
Gross domestic investment/GDP                18.7     19.1      23.0      22.3                     Trade
Exoorts of ooods and services/GOP            16.9     17.0      13.9      13.9
Grossdomesticsavinas/GDP                     22.3     23.1      18.0      16.6
Gross national savinas/GDP                   21.1     21.2      17.6      16 5
Current account balance/GDP                   1.9    -0.1       -5.4      -5.7     Dmti
Interest oavments/GDP                        0.8       3,7       1,5       1.7     D omestc                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               26.0     46.8      31.2      35.1     Savn g
Total debt service/exDorts                   10.7     39.1      46.7      47.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                .      27.9
Present value of debt/exDorts                   .              198.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
eaveraae annual rofwth)
GDP                                 3.4      4.0       3.1       0.6       3.6         - Colombia
GNP Der caDita                      0.7       2.6      1.1      -1.3       1.7               Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of ooods and services       5.0      7.1       8.1      -4.8       8.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
1`% of GDP)                                                                        45
Aanculture                                   25.0     17.4      14.1      14.5
Industry                                    30.3      34.8      29.0      27.1     30
Manufactunino                              23.9     20.3       14.2      13.8    15
Services                                    44.7      47.8      57.0      58.4      o_
Pnvate consumotion                           70.0     68.2      65.8      67.2     *59s    9    9           96   97   98
General oovernment consumotion                7.7      8.7      16.2      16.3    j          _GDI          -*GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                13.3     12.9      19.4      19.6
(averaae annual orowfh)                  1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Aanculture                                    2.5      1.7       0.2       0.6    50
Industrv                                     4.1       2.3       1.3      -2.3    4
Manufactunna                                2.5      1.7        2.5       0.0    3
SeMces                                        3.4      5.7       3.6       2.4    20
Private consumDtion                           2.9      4.0       3.7       1.9                     --
General aovernment consumotion                5.1      5.3       4.7       0.3            97
Gross domestic investment                     2.3     14.0       3.5              |-'
ImDorts of ooods and services                 2.5     16.0       4.4       1.5               -Exports    -imports
Gross national oroduct                        2.9      3.9       3.1       -2.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.






-48-
COLOMBIA: Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Photographs






IMAGES OF THE DESTRUCTION
t  X k   X  ~-       *
W-~~ T
.; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ n
41 ~  ~    ~    1



DIGGING OUT



REBUILDING COMMUNITIES
.1~ ~~~~(
~I71
21L~L
* -- A






IBRD 30639
78.                                           740                                             8
120                COLOMBIA                                                                                                                           12-
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                                              Riockachca/0
PROJECT                 B-anqui       Saa/                                                               CL/
ATLANTICO)                                                                                              I
Cartagen 3     <            Valledupor '
CESAR )
f   \ Montera    t  /   %,   NORTE\
L  /C6R      '>.-~~~                 DE
/CdRDOQ  O- BCLiVAR  SA NTANDERj
80 ~ ~ ~       b  /  -'           /       (                                                                                                       8-  ,   ,
,--.'j Bucuromaon,qa---'                                      VENEZUELA
ANTIO0QUA                                                                             VENEZUELA
t  SANTANDER i-    ARAUCA
M edellin    1
CHOCO                        0   2  Janary 199
CHS   '  <452ichervlue\;BOYACA   J_ --                                                          ur)8
'CAL            NDNA         Tooj    S CASANARE            j.f                                 (
R)S  R~   ~IJs  MARCA                ~     0uu                      
( _ _  S                 ( p @   ^SA-D,              -- T                 VICHADA
VALLE DEL( T  LIMA zy&
CAUCA  )/                                                                                   .-Putolid
tCIji                 _META                                                                  Pue,t\
P puy6n     4?,
CAUCA    0         _             \ ~S                            Josede Guaoiore   x        GUAIN/A
>   ,>   ,/                   -l    ~~~GUAVIARE         , --                  
NARINO        /--1       *.   tFlc rencia                    *                                     --- ---k-
0Pustuj$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1 ~~~Mitue
CAQUETA                         .-,--                            3 ,
K    ,    >s   eC    9,                                        --,      VAUPES    _.s\\
00    ECUADOR                                                                                                                                          O.-.  ,  -*\  I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR At Z I, L9jttt
EARTHQUAKE EPICENTER LOCATION                                                                   5..B                     A
MUNICIPALITIES MOST AFFECTED                                          AMAZON'AS
   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS i
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS                                                                      -./
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES            I                                                                        This map was produced by the
, INTERNTIOA  BSMap Design Unit of The World Bank.
--   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                    Z    * The boundories, colors, denominations
P E  R  U                      /      !    and anyother information shownon
P E  R  U           /      .   ~~~~~~~~this mop do not imply, on the part of
0      50      100     150 MILES                                                                i        I    The World Bank Group, any judgment
0  100  260 KILOMETERS                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any endorsement or acceptance of
40               1                                                                                                      such boundaries.             4A
78'                                           74                                         78'  Leticia
DECEMBER 1999



