Report No. PID8221
Project Name                      Colombia-Earthquake Emergency Recovery...
Project
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Other Non-sector Specific
Project ID                        COPE65263
Implementing Agency               Fund for the Reconstruction and Social
Development of "Eje Cafetero" (FOREC)
Address: Calle 23 No. 16-39 Tercer Piso
Armenia, Quindio - Colombia
Contact: Mr. Everardo Murillo, Executive
Director
Phone: (57-56) 744-2474 Fax: (57-56) 744-2371
E-mail: emurillo@ejecafetero.gov.co
Date PID Prepared                 October 4, 1999
Projected Board Date              January 18, 2000
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.      The Earthquake Disaster.    On January 25, 1999, an earthquake measuring
6.2 on the Richter Scale hit an area of about 1,360 square kilometers in five
Departments -- Caldas, QuindUo, Risaralda, Tolima and the Valle de Cauca.
The initial impact, along with an aftershock of 5.2 and hundreds of other
aftershocks, resulted in 1,185 deaths, 731missing persons and over 8,000
injuries. In terms of property loss, the municipalities of Armenia,
Barcelona, Calarca and La Tebaida suffered the most extensive losses.
According to geological studies and seismic experts, the coffee-growing zone
is traversed by at least two extensive and active fault-lines and similar
earthquakes can be expected in the region with 15-20 years frequency. The
very volcanic soil contributes to its vulnerability when earthquakes strike.
The problem is also compounded by poorly-compacted filled sites along fault-
line areas to accommodate various superstructures for a growing population.
2.      Overall, of the estimated 1,546,000 residents in the affected area,
about 560,000 suffered some form of direct earthquake-related losses. United
Nations' Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) has
undertaken an initial set of estimates which identifies both "direct" and
"indirect" damages totaling about US$1.6 billion. Direct damages refer to
destruction of superstructures, household personal property losses,
commercial equipment losses, and damage to infrastructure. Indirect losses
are characterized as loss of jobs/wages, lost production, market share, sales
and revenue, loss of tax revenue, insurance losses and the actual cost of the
relief effort.
3.      The affected region suffered a loss estimated at about US$1.6 billion
or about 30 percent of the regional GDP. Housing losses are estimated at
about 70 percent of the total loss suffered. While the earthquake did not
cause direct damage to coffee trees and other agricultural crops, the damage
to processing and storage structures and equipment on the farms, workers'
homes, as well as assets of other input suppliers (fertilizers, pesticides,
financing, transport, etc) has been substantial. Even before the earthquake,



the region was experiencing economic problems related to low international
coffee prices. Furthermore, about 80 percent of the affected residents fall
into the low-income category, many of whom cannot afford to rebuild or repair
their units with their own resources. If these affected groups are not
assisted quickly in a systematic manner, the situation in the zone could
deteriorate, both from a macro-economic as well as social and cultural
perspectives.
THE PROJECT
4.      Project Objectives.   The proposed project is the second phase of a two
part strategy to assist the Government of Colombia (GOC) community rebuilding
efforts following the devastating effects of the January 25, 1999 earthquake
in the coffee growing region of the country. The overall Project Development
Objective is to assist project beneficiaries normalize economic and social
activities through the restoration of essential housing and basic
infrastructure built to adequate seismic standards. More specifically, the
aim of the project is to help finance efforts being made by the Borrower to
provide a minimum level of shelter facility needed to help the poorest
population strata. In particular the project will provide for: (a) housing
reconstruction and repair resources for the poorest strata (families with
income below 4 minimum salaries per month ); (b) grants for priority
retrofitting of damaged social infrastructure (schools, health facilities and
community centers); (c) rehabilitation of public infrastructure including
damage to airport and transport terminals, water and sewerage systems, power
systems; and (d) the design of an improved emergency response system.
5.      Project Description.   The proposed project will have five components:
(i) Shelter Assistance. Funding for the repair and reconstruction of
about 43,480 units partially damaged, about 17,550 totally damaged and
about 18,420 units structurally damaged in the affected zone. This
component will finance subsidies to owners of units who meet criteria
established by the GOC and agreed to by the Bank.
(ii) Rehabilitation and Retrofitting of Social Infrastructure. This
component will provide grants for priority retrofitting of vulnerable
structures which survived the earthquake but which are not in compliance
with current or proposed new building code requirements in the affected
zone. Included in this component would be support to repair social
infrastructure (schools, health facilities and community centers, among
others).
(iii) Rehabilitation of Public Infrastructure. This component will
finance the repair of damaged water and sewerage systems, power systems,
and airport and other transport terminals, street and highway
improvements, among others, in the affected zone.
(iv) Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management. As part of the
reconstruction effort associated with a natural disaster, there is also
a need to prepare reconstruction plans which emphasize the strengthening
of prevention, mitigation and management skills of public sector
agencies. Important studies to be undertaken include microzoning, land
use mapping, geological and geo-technical research, feasibility studies
- 2 -



for debris disposal and the preparation of new building codes.
(v) Social Capital Restoration and Project Management. This component
will finance the cost of activities aimed at restoring social
cohesiveness in affected communities. Such activities may include
community meetings and workshops to enhance cultural and community
spirit, as well as psychological support to affected families.
6.      Project Financing.   The financing of the reconstruction effort includes
US$93 million reallocated from Loans 3615-CO, 3683-CO, 3871-CO and 3973-CO,
and the loan under consideration for US$225 million. The Loan Amendments
were approved by the Board in August 1999.
7.      Project Implementation.   The Government has assigned responsibility for
managing the Project to the Fondo para la Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo Social
del Eje Cafetero (FOREC). FOREC will be responsible for determining (or
amending) the eligibility criteria, review and approval of individual
financing proposals, as well as the overall management and implementation of
reconstruction activities. To this end, FOREC will enter into agreements
with different local and national organizations, both governmental and non-
governmental. FOREC has established a technical committee composed of sector
specialists (infrastructure, health, environment, etc.) which will oversee
the implementation of the reconstruction plan, monitor and evaluate the
technical performance of reconstruction activities and act as the technical
focal point for the recovery of the affected area. To facilitate quick and
efficient project implementation, the affected area has been divided into 31
zones in which the implementation of reconstruction activities will be
managed by qualified NGOs (Zone Manager). The selection of NGOs was carried
out by FOREC through public announcements for expressions of interest,
according to criteria agreed upon with the Bank. Selected NGOs will work
closely with affected communities in prioritizing reconstruction activities
and be responsible for identifying beneficiaries for housing subsidies. In
addition, they will be responsible for managing and supervising all
reconstruction activities in their respective zones.
8.      Project Sustainability.   Among the most important aspects of the
proposed project is the use of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which
have proven to be credible entities that can help promote transparency and
act as effective providers of disaster response. Project activities to be
supported under the new lending operation will also assist the GOC in
developing a strategy to insure the sustainability of its emergency-response
capability over the longer term.
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector.    According to OED
(see Precis No. 174 of 1998) the following are the main lessons of Bank
experience with natural disaster response, all of which have been
incorporated in the project design: (i) project design should be simple,
based on extensive participation by the local community/ beneficiaries, and
take into account local implementation capacity; (ii) implementation should
be flexible to ensure responsiveness to community needs. Attempts to use the
emergency operation to promote social reform, relocation, and land
acquisition should be avoided; (iii) if feasible, in situ reconstruction
should be promoted to take advantage of existing infrastructure and community
facilities, while minimizing resettlement and its attendant social
- 3 -



dislocation. This should be combined with self-help efforts in low-cost
reconstruction; (iv) along with the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure,
local vulnerabilities should be identified and addressed so as to be reduced
in ways that lead to durable solutions. To ensure the sustainability of
infrastructure reconstructed after the disaster, long-term measures to
address disaster mitigation should be devised. Options to be considered
(within the context of what is affordable) include financial incentives, land
use and management practices, a review of land tenure patterns, upgraded
building codes and enforcement programs, training for construction craftsmen,
and other nonstructural measures to lessen vulnerability; (v) approaches
selected should be cost-effective. Thus, while families should be allowed to
rebuild according to their tastes and incomes, they should also be provided
with guidance in disaster-resistant building techniques, as well as
appropriate incentives. Low-cost reconstruction is desirable, but
economizing on the structure of buildings is not cost-effective given
recurrent disasters. Extremely poor areas, informal settlements, and areas
where building codes are not enforced require special treatment; (vi) to
avoid reconstruction delays, streamlined decision-making and procedures for
contracting civil works should be put in place; (vii) emergency projects
require a strong positive cash flow and special attention to the design and
implementation of disbursement arrangements. To meet these requirements, the
emergency loan should be quick-disbursing, and bottlenecks to cash flow
should be minimized through provision of guidelines, sample bidding
documents, technical assistance to first-time borrowers, and simple local
disbursement procedures; (viii) emergency assistance should promote equitable
development. For example, a policy to deal with renters in the post-disaster
context is required. The use of public money to provide multiple housing
replacements for the wealthy, while doing nothing for the renter, is
inequitable; (ix) strengthening local institutions so that they are better
able to cope with the current event makes them stronger the next time around.
Institutional development objectives should be stated in emergency recovery
project documents, and they should include measurable indicators so that the
degree to which they are attained is verifiable.
10.     Environmental Aspects and Category.   Immediately after the earthquake,
several environmental experts from the GOC, IDB, Italy and the Bank visited
the affected zone and reviewed the situation. In line with the findings and
recommendations of these experts, the Borrower has prepared a draft
Environmental Management Plan which, among other things, lists various
measures to be taken to reduce adverse health and environmental impacts of
reconstruction activities and identifies additional studies and activities to
be undertaken during project implementation. Among the main areas of focus
are: (a) demolition, debris removal and appropriate disposal; (b) ensuring a
sustainable harvesting of bamboo (used in housing construction); and (c)
prevention of resettlement in hazardous and vulnerable zones in the project
area. Item (c) is complemented by a monetary compensation (established by
Presidential Decree No. 196 of January 30, 1999) offered to owners of plots
in such vulnerable areas, as an incentive for them to settle in safer zones.
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in
Category B and does not require an environmental assessment.
11.     Program Objective Categories.   The project will support the Poverty
Reduction (PA) and the Environmental Sustainable Development (EN) of the
Bank's program objective categories.
- 4-



12.     Poverty Category.   This project will be included in the Program of
Targeted Interventions.
CONTACT POINTS:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)458 5454
Fax:   (202) 522 1500
Eleotario Cordato
Task Manager
(202)473-8646
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 8, 1999.
- 5 -



