Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7009-CO
Loan Agreement
(Earthquake Recovery Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO PARA LA RECONSTRUCCION Y DESARROLLO
SOCIAL DEL EJE CAFETERO
Dated  May 23, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7009-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO PARA LA 
RECONSTRUCCION Y DESARROLLO SOCIAL DEL EJE CAFETERO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A)  the Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)  
the Borrower represents that it is a legally and financially 
autonomous entity, under the ownership of the Guarantor, created pursuant 
to the Guarantor's Decreto No. 197, of January 30, 1999, as amended by 
the Guarantor's Decreto No. 350, of February 25, 1999, and is authorized 
to carry out the Project;
(C)  
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor 
and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement;
(D)  
the Project is also being financed by Loans 3615-CO 
(Municipal Health Services and Earthquake Reconstruction Project), 
3683-CO (Secondary Education and Earthquake Reconstruction Project), 
3871-CO (Agricultural Technology Development and Earthquake 
Page  2
Reconstruction Project) and Loan 3973-CO (Urban Environmental Management 
and Earthquake Reconstruction Project), pursuant to an amendment letter, 
signed by the Bank on August 12, 1999 and countersigned by the Guarantor 
on September 1, 1999, to the respective Loan Agreements between the 
Guarantor and the Bank for such Loans; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
"Earthquake" means the seismic phenomenon that hit the 
coffee-growing zone of Colombia, located in the Departments of Caldas, 
Quindío, Risaralda, Valle del Cauca, and Tolima, on January 25, 1999;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)  
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)  
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, adopted by 
the Borrower in November 1999, for the mitigation of the environmental 
impact of the works under the Project, including a resettlement framework 
to govern the resettlement of population under the Project;
(e)  
"Housing Beneficiaries" means the persons referred to in 
Part A of the Project;
(f)  
"Housing Grant" means any of the grants to be made pursuant 
to Part A of the Project;
(g)  
"Operational Manual" means the manual, sent by the Borrower 
to the Bank with the letter UPRU-000867, of November 8, 1999, which 
establishes detailed procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
including the criteria for selection of Zone Managers, the terms and 
conditions of Housing Grants, the model of the agreement providing for 
Housing Grants, the criteria for selection of Housing Beneficiaries, 
standards for reconstruction works, criteria and procedures for selection 
of Social Infrastructure Subprojects and Public Infrastructure 
Subprojects, the procurement procedures, models of bidding documents and 
contracts, and the financial management procedures;
(h)  
“Project Management Report” means any of the reports 
Page  3
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)  
"Public Infrastructure Subproject" means any of the projects 
referred to in Part C of the Project;
(j)  
"Social Infrastructure Subproject" means any of the projects 
referred to in Part B of the Project;
(k)  
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(l)  
"Zone Management Agreement" means any of the agreements 
entered into or to be entered into between the Borrower and a Zone 
Manager, for purposes of governing the participation of such Zone Manager 
in the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project, whereby such Zone 
Manager undertakes to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of such 
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement 
and the Operational Manual, and the Borrower undertakes to transfer to 
such Zone Manager the funds required therefor, and to pay the fees of 
such Zone Manager; and
(m) 
"Zone Manager" means any of the 32 non-governmental 
organizations selected by the Borrower which have entered into a Zone 
Management Agreement, and any other non-governmental organization, 
selected by the Borrower in accordance with the applicable provisions of 
the Operational Manual, which may be in addition to, or in substitution 
for any of, such 32 organizations.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount equal to two hundred twenty-five million Dollars ($225,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The 
Borrower agrees that, on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
Page  4
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
Page  5
other resources required for the Project.
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and the Environmental Management Plan.  Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail 
to enforce such Operational Manual or Environmental Management Plan, or 
any provision thereof.
(c)  
For the purposes of the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project, the Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its 
obligations under the Zone Management Agreements in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such agreements, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner that may be inconsistent with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later 
than March 1 and September 1 of each year during the execution of the 
Project:
(a) 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
request, on the progress in the execution of the Project during the 
calendar semester immediately preceding each such report; and
(b) 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
request, by auditors acceptable to the Bank on the compliance by the 
Borrower with its obligations under this Agreement, especially those 
relating to procurement of goods, works and consultants' services.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
Page  6
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each calendar semester audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than two 
months after the end of each such 
semester: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such 
semester as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or 
Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least two years after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the calendar semester in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the semi-annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such semester, as 
the 
case may be, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.
 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 20, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
Page  7
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower 
has furnished to the Bank a list of indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, 
required to monitor the progress of the Project and the attainment of its 
objectives.
Section 5.02. The date August 23, 2000 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Executive Director of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Fondo para la Reconstrucción y
   Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero
Calle 23, No. 16-39 - Tercer Piso
Armenia, Quindio
Colombia
Facsimile:
(57-56) 
744-2371 or 
744-3740
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO PARA LA RECONSTRUCCION Y
   DESARROLLO SOCIAL DEL EJE CAFETERO
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno
Authorized Representative
Witnessed  by: /s/ Luis Carlos Villegas                                              
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Housing Grants
   90,000,000
100% of amounts
disbursed 
(2)
Works under 
   63,000,000
85%
Social Infrastructure
Subprojects and 
Public Infrastructure
Subprojects
(3)
Goods
   22,870,000
100% of foreign 
(other than under
expenditures and
Housing Grants)
85% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultants' services
   22,880,000
100%
and training
(5)
Incremental administrative     1,720,000
85%
costs
(6)
Front-end Fee
    2,250,000
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   22,280,000
TOTAL
  225,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)  
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Guarantor;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Guarantor; and
(c)
"incremental administrative costs" means the salaries of 
technical staff of the Borrower employed for purposes of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the amount of $45,000,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months before the 
date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for 
Housing Grants, training and incremental administrative costs; and (b) 
under contracts that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant 
to Section I, Part D.1, and Section II, Part D.1, of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
B. Special 
Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
Page  10
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Page  11
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means the amount of $22,250,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
Page  12
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of $44,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the population affected 
by the Earthquake in normalizing its economic and social activities 
through the restoration of essential housing and basic infrastructure 
built to adequate seismic standards.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A - Housing Grants
Provision of grants (the Housing Grants) to owners and renters of 
about 43,480 housing units partially damaged, about 17,550 housing units 
totally damaged and about 18,420 housing units structurally damaged by 
the Earthquake, who are eligible to receive such grants pursuant to the 
Operational Manual (the Housing Beneficiaries), for purposes of 
repairing, reconstructing or replacing such units.
Part B - Social Infrastructure Subprojects
Carrying out of projects consisting of rehabilitation, 
reconstruction or retrofitting of social infrastructure, such as schools, 
health facilities and community centers, damaged by the Earthquake (the 
Social Infrastructure Subprojects).
Page  13
Part C - Public Infrastructure Subprojects
Carrying out of projects consisting of rehabilitation or 
reconstruction of public infrastructure, such as water and sewerage 
systems, power systems, airport and other transport terminals, streets 
and highways, damaged by the Earthquake (the Public Infrastructure 
Subprojects).
Part D - Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management
1.  
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, 
equipment and training, of the natural disaster prevention, mitigation 
and management skills of public sector agencies.
2.
Carrying out of microzoning, land use mapping, and geological and 
geo-technical research studies, and feasibility studies for debris 
disposal, and drafting of new building codes.
Part E - Social Capital Restoration
1.
Carrying out of activities designed to restore the social 
cohesiveness of the communities affected by the Earthquake.
2.  
Carrying out of studies to identify both public and private sector 
opportunities for the reactivation of the economy of the area affected by 
the Earthquake.
Part F - Project Management
Carrying out of activities to manage Project implementation.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2005
 through September 15, 2016
4.17 %
On March 15, 2017
4.09 %
Page  14
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn 
and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Page  15
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured 
goods, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with: (a) 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines regarding 
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures; or (ii) at the option of 
the entity responsible inviting the bids, in accordance with such 
procedures but without the requirement for public advertisement of the 
invitation to bid, in which case the invitation to bid may be made 
directly to qualified contractors previously known by such entity as good 
performers under similar works (the Simplified NCB procedures).  The 
aggregate amount of contracts to be awarded under NCB and Simplified NCB 
procedures shall not exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000 and 
$40,000,000, respectively.
(b)
Goods
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or less per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines regarding NCB 
procedures, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $13,700,000, or under 
Simplified NCB procedures, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000.
(c)
Special Provisions
Bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank and in a standardized 
form for the Project, shall be used in the procurement under this Part 
C.1 (a) and (b). Without limitation to any other provision of this Annex 
or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods 
and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1 (a) and (b):
(i)
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are 
foreigners or Colombians, will 
be treated equally and, 
particularly, no preference will be granted to any 
Page  16
bidder or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. 
Bidders shall be 
allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or private 
mailing services. There shall not be any requirement for any bidder 
to show 
evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of 
commerce or 
similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to appoint a 
representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and 
until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract.
(ii)
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which 
bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed 
to attend if they so wish. Date, time and 
place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding 
documents. Bid 
opening shall coincide with, or take 
place promptly, after the final date and 
time of 
the period for bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
(iii)
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding 
contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets 
appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest 
evaluated bid. 
Such determination shall be made 
exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, 
conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding 
documents. If any factor additional to the amount or amounts 
of each bid is to 
be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified 
manner 
on which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the 
bidding documents. For 
purposes of bid evaluation 
and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to 
be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in 
the 
corresponding bid, including correction of 
arithmetic errors.
(iv)
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines 
shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall 
not be disclosed to persons other than the persons 
officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the 
bids while 
they are performing their official duties, 
without the corresponding bidder's 
written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such 
authorization as a condition to be entitled to bid. 
This confidentiality 
requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the 
successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids 
shall be limited to 
those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested 
by the bidder in question.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,000,000, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
Page  17
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a)  
Spare parts costing the equivalent of $10,000 or less per 
contract, or goods of a proprietary nature, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $2,300,000, may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)  
Civil works costing less than the equivalent to $50,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Private Sector Practices
Procurement of goods and works financed by Housing Grants may be 
undertaken by the Housing Beneficiaries in accordance with private sector 
practices acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Community Participation
Goods and services under Part E of the Project, costing less than 
$15,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, 
may be procured through community participation, as set forth in 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, in accordance with the procedures 
specified in the Operational Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the contracts for goods and works to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B of this Section I; and (ii) 
the first three contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part C.1 (a) of this Section I, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Page  18
Section II of this Annex.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Selection Procedures
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants' services under Parts D and F of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Consultants' services under Parts D and F of the Project, which 
meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than $500,000, may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $7,000,000, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 
but more than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
Page  19
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior review and approval.
