Page  1
August 31, 2001
Mr. Juan Manuel Santos
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Republic of Colombia
Mr. Everardo Murillo Sanchez
Executive Director 
Fondo para la Reconstrucción y 
Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero
Re:
Loan No. 7009-CO (Earthquake Recovery Project)
Amendment
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement, dated May 23, 2000, between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Fondo para la 
Reconstrucción y Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero (FOREC) and the Guarantee 
Agreement, dated May 23, 2000, between the Republic of Colombia (Colombia) and the 
Bank, both for the Project referred to above; and (b) the letter, dated May 25, 2001, 
from Colombia’s  Minister of Finance and Public Credit requesting that the Loan 
Agreement be amended in order to provide for the replacement of FOREC by Colombia as 
the borrower of Loan 7009-CO and the continuation of FOREC as the entity responsible 
for the carrying out of the Project, and, as a consequence, the termination of the 
Guarantee Agreement.
Considering that (i) FOREC does not have a budgetary allocation for the current 
fiscal year that would enable FOREC to withdraw the remaining funds in the Loan 
Account for Loan 7009-CO, (ii) the Government of Colombia has already advanced funds 
to FOREC for purposes of the Project, (iii) the Project is being carried out as agreed 
in the Loan Agreement, (iv) the only way for continuation of disbursement of Loan 
proceeds would be with the replacement of FOREC by Colombia as borrower under the Loan 
Agreement, with the consequential assumption by Colombia of FOREC’s financial 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, (v) in accordance with Article 9 of Colombia's 
Decree 196 of January 30, 1999, Colombia is empowered to assume such obligations, and 
(vi) FOREC will continue to carry out the Project, the Bank agrees with that request, 
and proposes that the Preamble and Articles I through VI of, and Schedules 1 and 2 to, 
the Loan Agreement be amended to read in their entirety as set forth in the Annex to 
this letter, in order to reflect the assumption by Colombia of FOREC’s financial 
obligations in the Loan Agreement and the continuation of FOREC as the Project 
implementing entity.
We also agree with FOREC’s request to revise the aggregate amounts specified for 
the procurement of works in Part C.1 (a) and Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement, as follows:
Procedure
Revised Aggregate Amount (US$ 
equivalent)
(a) NCB
40,000,000
(b) Simplified NCB
54,000,000
(c) Small Works
12,000,000
If you agree with such amendments, please sign the three originals of this 
letter on the space provided below and return one signed original to us.  The 
amendment to the Loan Agreement and the termination of the Guarantee Agreement will 
become effective when the Bank has notified Colombia and FOREC that it has received:
(a)  an original of this letter signed by Colombia and FOREC; and
(b)  one or more legal opinions, acceptable to the Bank, showing that the Loan 
Agreement, as amended pursuant to this letter, has been duly authorized by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, Colombia and FOREC and is legally binding on 
Colombia and FOREC in accordance with its terms.
Page  2
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Connie Luff
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Manuel Santos
Authorized Representative
Date:  September 26, 2001
FONDO PARA LA RECONSTRUCCION Y
 DESARROLLO SOCIAL DEL EJE CAFETERO
By /s/ Everardo Murillo Sanchez
Authorized Representative
Date:  September 26, 2001
ANNEX
"AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO PARA LA RECONSTRUCCION Y DESARROLLO SOCIAL DEL 
EJE CAFETERO (FOREC), and subsequently amended on ________, 2001, so as to become an 
agreement among the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower), the Bank and FOREC.
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower and FOREC, having been satisfied as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)  
FOREC represents that it is a legally and financially autonomous entity, 
under the ownership of the Borrower, created pursuant to the Borrower's Decreto No. 
197, of January 30, 1999, as amended by the Borrower's Decreto No. 350, of February 
25, 1999, and is authorized to carry out the Project;
(C)  
the Project is also being financed by Loans 3615-CO (Municipal Health 
Services and Earthquake Reconstruction Project), 3683-CO (Secondary Education and 
Earthquake Reconstruction Project), 3871-CO (Agricultural Technology Development and 
Earthquake Reconstruction Project) and Loan 3973-CO (Urban Environmental Management 
and Earthquake Reconstruction Project), pursuant to an amendment letter, signed by the 
Bank on August 12, 1999 and countersigned by the Borrower on September 1, 1999, to the 
respective Loan Agreements between the Borrower and the Bank for such Loans; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  3
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a) 
"Earthquake" means the seismic phenomenon that hit the coffee-growing 
zone of Colombia, located in the Departments of Caldas, Quindío, Risaralda, Valle del 
Cauca, and Tolima, on January 25, 1999;
(b)  
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, adopted by FOREC in 
November 1999, for the mitigation of the environmental impact of the works under the 
Project, including a resettlement framework to govern the resettlement of population 
under the Project;
(c)  
"Housing Beneficiaries" means the persons referred to in Part A of the 
Project;
(d)  
"Housing Grant" means any of the grants to be made pursuant to Part A of 
the Project;
(e)  
"Operational Manual" means the manual, sent by FOREC to the Bank with the 
letter UPRU-000867, of November 8, 1999, which establishes detailed procedures for the 
carrying out of the Project, including the criteria for selection of Zone Managers, 
the terms and conditions of Housing Grants, the model of the agreement providing for 
Housing Grants, the criteria for selection of Housing Beneficiaries, standards for 
reconstruction works, criteria and procedures for selection of Social Infrastructure 
Subprojects and Public Infrastructure Subprojects, the procurement procedures, models 
of bidding documents and contracts, and the financial management procedures;
(f)  
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(g)  
"Public Infrastructure Subproject" means any of the projects referred to 
in Part C of the Project;
(h)  
"Social Infrastructure Subproject" means any of the projects referred to 
in Part B of the Project;
(i)  
"Zone Management Agreement" means any of the agreements entered into or 
to be entered into between FOREC and a Zone Manager, for purposes of governing the 
participation of such Zone Manager in the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, whereby such Zone Manager undertakes to assist FOREC in the carrying out of 
such Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the 
Operational Manual, and FOREC undertakes to transfer to such Zone Manager the funds 
required therefor, and to pay the fees of such Zone Manager; and
(j) 
"Zone Manager" means any of the 32 non-governmental organizations 
selected by FOREC which have entered into a Zone Management Agreement, and any other 
non-governmental organization, selected by FOREC in accordance with the applicable 
provisions of the Operational Manual, which may be in addition to, or in substitution 
for any of, such 32 organizations.
Section 1.03.  (a) Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to FOREC.
(b)
Each reference to the Borrower in Article X of the General Conditions 
Page  4
shall be deemed to also include FOREC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
twenty-five million Dollars ($225,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and FOREC of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that, on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; 
and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
Page  5
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and FOREC declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end: (i) FOREC shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and environmental practices; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project, including transferring to FOREC the proceeds of the Loan as 
and when needed for the efficient carrying out of the Project..
(b)  
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, FOREC shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Environmental 
Management Plan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FOREC shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce such Operational Manual or Environmental Management Plan, or 
any provision thereof.
(c)  
For the purposes of the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
FOREC shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations under the Zone 
Management Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of FOREC and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and FOREC shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such agreements, or any provision thereof, 
in a manner that may be inconsistent with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  FOREC shall furnish to the Bank, not later than March 1 and 
September 1 of each year during the execution of the Project:
(a) 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, on 
the progress in the execution of the Project during the calendar semester immediately 
preceding each such report; and
(b) 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, by 
auditors acceptable to the Bank on the compliance by FOREC with its obligations under 
this Agreement, especially those relating to procurement of goods, works and 
consultants' services.
Section 3.04.  FOREC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the letter, dated April 12, 2000, from FOREC to the Bank, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, FOREC shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
Page  6
be agreed for this purpose between FOREC and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with FOREC and 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06.  FOREC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) FOREC shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
FOREC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
calendar semester audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than two months after the end of each such semester: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such semester as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, or 
shall cause FOREC to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least two years after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the calendar semester in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
semi-annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such semester, as the case may be, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
Page  7
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, FOREC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01 in order to enable FOREC, not later than September 20, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, FOREC shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
FOREC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FOREC will be able to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
A representation made by FOREC in or pursuant to the Loan Agreement, or 
any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the 
Bank in making the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and 
FOREC.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower and FOREC; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
Page  8
required or permitted to be executed by FOREC under this Agreement may be taken or 
executed by its Executive Director or such other person or persons as he or she shall 
designate in writing.  FOREC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 350-9344
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For FOREC:
Fondo para la Reconstrucción y
   Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero
Calle 23, No. 16-39 - Tercer Piso
Armenia, Quindio
Colombia
Facsimile:
(57-56) 744-2371 or 
  744-3740
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Housing Grants           140,000,000
100% of amounts
disbursed 
(2)
Works under 
  67,750,000
85%
Social Infrastructure
Subprojects and 
Public Infrastructure
Page  9
Subprojects
(3)
Goods
0
100% of foreign 
(other than under
expenditures and
Housing Grants)
85% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultants' services
  15,000,000
100%
and training
(5)
Incremental administrative 0
85%
costs
(6)
Front-end Fee
   2,250,000
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
                  0
TOTAL
 225,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)  
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
"incremental administrative costs" means the salaries of technical staff 
of FOREC employed for purposes of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to May 23, 2000, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $45,000,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months before 
May 23, 2000. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for Housing Grants, training and 
incremental administrative costs; and (b) under contracts that are not subject to 
prior review by the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.1, and Section II, Part D.1, of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the population affected by the 
Earthquake in normalizing its economic and social activities through the restoration 
of essential housing and basic infrastructure built to adequate seismic standards.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower, FOREC and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A - Housing Grants
Provision of grants (the Housing Grants) to owners and renters of about 43,480 
housing units partially damaged, about 17,550 housing units totally damaged and about 
18,420 housing units structurally damaged by the Earthquake, who are eligible to 
receive such grants pursuant to the Operational Manual (the Housing Beneficiaries), 
for purposes of repairing, reconstructing or replacing such units.
Page  10
Part B - Social Infrastructure Subprojects
Carrying out of projects consisting of rehabilitation, reconstruction or 
retrofitting of social infrastructure, such as schools, health facilities and 
community centers, damaged by the Earthquake (the Social Infrastructure Subprojects).
Part C - Public Infrastructure Subprojects
Carrying out of projects consisting of rehabilitation or reconstruction of 
public infrastructure, such as water and sewerage systems, power systems, airport and 
other transport terminals, streets and highways, damaged by the Earthquake (the Public 
Infrastructure Subprojects).
Part D - Capacity Building for Natural Disaster Management
1.  
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, equipment and 
training, of the natural disaster prevention, mitigation and management skills of 
public sector agencies.
2.
Carrying out of microzoning, land use mapping, and geological and geo-technical 
research studies, and feasibility studies for debris disposal, and drafting of new 
building codes.
Part E - Social Capital Restoration
1.
Carrying out of activities designed to restore the social cohesiveness of the 
communities affected by the Earthquake.
2.  
Carrying out of studies to identify both public and private sector opportunities 
for the reactivation of the economy of the area affected by the Earthquake.
Part F - Project Management
Carrying out of activities to manage Project implementation.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003." 
