Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4493
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 519-MAU)
May 16, 1983
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 519-MAU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface.       .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
Basic Data Sheet ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  ii
Highlights  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iv
I.  INTRODUCTION.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL . . . . . . . . . . . .                        3
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       7
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
V.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
VI.  PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT, ASSOCIATION AND
CONSULTANTS.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    22
Tables
1.  Cost Estimates by Source of Finance . . . . . . . . . . .                       25
2.  Project Cost Estimates.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      26
3.  Schedule of Disbursements  ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
Map        IBRD 17243(PCR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I



PREFACE
Presented herewith is a completion report for the Third Highway
Project in Mauritania, for which Credit 519-MAU for $3.0 million was signed on Nc*vrb
12, 1974. The project was co-financed by the Kuwait Fund ($3.2 million) and tV^
Canadian International Development Agency ($4.5 million). IDA disbursements of $209
million were completed on August 23, 1982, and the balance cancelled. The project
completion report was prepared by the West Africa Region in December 1981 without a
separate mission. No project performance audit report was prepared by OED. The
completion report was sent to the borrower for comments; however, no comments were
received.



0



- ii -
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                Actual or
Item                               Expectation  1/          Current Estimate  2/
Total Proj,ect Cost (US$ million)                    13.7                      12.04  3/
Overrun (                                           -                         n.a.  4/
Credit Amount (US$ million)                           3.0                       3.0
Disbursed as of 8/23/82                             3.0                       2.944
Cancelled (9/21/82)                               None                        0.056
Repaid                                            None                        None
Outstanding                                         3.0                       3.0
Date Physical Components Completed                12/31/79                     12/31/81 3/
Proportion Completed by 4/22/83                      100%                       n.a.
Proportion of Time Overrun                            -                         29%  4/
Economic Rate of Return (%)                    35% North, 16% South            Negative 5/
Financial Performance                                                          Poor/Fair
Institutional Performance                                                      Poor
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                     Original           Retisions         Actual or
Plan                            Estimated Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable    1/72                                   1/72
Government's Application                 7/72                                 7/72
Negotiations                             9/74                                 9/74
Board Approval                       11/12/74                             11/12/74
Credit Agreement Date                12/11/74                             12/11/74
Effectiveness Dwte                   06/09/75                             06/08/76
Closing Date                         06/30/80                            12/31/81
Borrower                            Republic of Mauritania
Executing Agency                     1)  Ministry of Equipment for Infrastructure
2) Other Ministries for Technical Assistance
Fiscal Year of Borrower              Calendar Year
Follon-on Project Name               Fourth Highway Project
Credit Number                     1231-MAU
Amount (SDR million)               3.4
Credit Agreement Date             05/20/82
1/ At an exchange rate of US$1   UM 50
2/ At an average exchange rate of US$1 = UM 45.
3/ Only part of the road program done and some of this only partially finished.
4/ See para. 3.42.
5/ Assuming roads not completed






- iii -
MISSION DATA
Item                  Sent       Month        No. of     No. of  Manweeks    Date of
By        Year         weeks      Persons              Report
Identification/
Preparation/
Preappraisal       Origin in/follow-up to Highway Maintenance Project Cr. 159-MAU
Appraisal           WAPHW        12/73           3           3        9        10/30/74
Supervision I                    06/75           1          1         1       07/21/75
Supervision II                   10/75           1          1         1       10/20/75
Supervision III                  12/75           1          1         1       01/21/76
Supervision IV                   11/76           3          2         6       03/10/77
Supervision V                    06/77           2          1         2       07/20/77
Supervision VI                   10/77           1          4         4       11/30/77
Supervision VII                  12/77           .5         1          .5     02/01/78
Supervision VIII                 01/78           2          1         2       04/21/78
Supervision IX                   02/78           2.5        2         5       04/21/78
Supervision X                    10/78           1          1         1       11/08/78
Supervision XI                   11/78           1.5        1         1.5     12/14/78
Supervision XII                  04/79           1.5        2         3       04/23/79
Supervision XIII                 10/79           1.5         2        3       11/29/79
Supervision XIV                  02/79           2          2         4       03/27/80
Completion               None
Total Supervision                              21.5                 35
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: Ouguiya (UM)
Year :
Appraisal Year Average:  1974                             Exchange rate: US$1= UM 50
Intervening Years Average (Disbursement Period):
1977-82                                         US$1- UM 45
Completion Year Average                                                   US$l= UM 45
4.22.1983



I



- iv -
HIGHLIGHTS
1.        The main purpose of the project was to continue the road maintenance program
begun under the Second Highway Project, including improving the condition of the road
system, strengthening the road maintenance organization, improving maintenance operations
and training maintenance staff.  The project included a betterment program on about 365 km
of roads; the provision of highway equipment for maintenance and betterment works;
technical assistance to the Ministries of Equipment, of Trade and Transportation, and
of Planning; and a feasibility and detailed engineering study for the construction of
the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km ).
2.        Mauritania experienced severe economic and political problems which disrupted
project implementation. The country suffered from several droughts, a guerrilla war,
changes of Government, and worsening terms of trade, all of which further weakened
the Governmentt s administrative ability and absorptive capacity. In addition, Mauritania
left the CFAF zone, and France substantially reduced its technical assistance to the
Ministry of Works, while the French project consultant experienced increasing
difficulties dealing with the Government. These problems contributed to a substantial
delay in procuring CIDA financed equipment, which in turn delayed the betterment component
by about two years. Only 249 of 365 km of foreseen betterment works were partlv comDleted:
little routine maintenance was implemented; and little training or institutional
improvements were carried out. The actual project cost was close to appraisal expectations,
but is not comparable because the project was reduced and the cost of completing the
betterment works is not known. Little training was carried out, or institutional
improvements made under the project because of the Governmentts preoccupation with country
problems, its limited absorptive capacity, and possibly the poor relations with the
French consultant. The overall economic return from the betterment works was re-estimated
to be negative, assuming the roads are not completed, compared with an appraisal expectation
of 16% for betterment roads in the North, and 35% for those in the South. The re-estimated
economic return for one 50 km section which was successfully completed in the South
by contractor was 13%, due to lower traffic and higher construction costs than expected
at appraisal. The Fourth HIghway Project, which is not yet effective, includes studies
and works which could eventually lead to the substantial completion of the betterment
works in the reduced project.
3.        The following points may be of special interest:
(a)   the effect of economic and political difficulties on
project implementation (para. 3.02);
(b)   the effect on project implementation of withdrawing French
technical assistance (para. 3.03);
(c)   the difficulty of implementing works by force account when
institutions are weak (paras. 3.20 - 3.27);



- v -
(d)   the difficulty in improving project implementation when it
is necessary to coordinate changes among three donors and an
inefficient government administration (paras. 3.30 - 3.40).



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The transport system in Mauritania was rudimentary at independence.
After the creation of the capital Nouakchott in a region devoid of basic
infrastructure, the Government invested heavily in the 1960s in the transport
sector. However the institutions involved in transport administration,
planning and maintenance are not yet well developed.
1.02      External needs were and are met almost entirely by the ports at
Nouadhibou and Nouakchott, airports in these cities, and a ferry service at
Rosso near the mouth of the Senegal River which gives access to the transport
system in Senegal. Internal transport needs are met by about 7,800 km of
roads, of which 1100 km are paved and 600 km are improved laterite roads.
Costs are high, particularly in the road sector because of the vast distances,
topography and climate. 1/ Moreover, demand for road transport is relatively
small, comprising mainly fuel, construction material and food.  There is a
railroad, 750 km in length, owned by Miferma, a private iron ore mining
company, to ship ore from the mine in Zouerate to the port in Nouadhibou for
export.
1.03      The road system comprises four main axes:  north-south from the
Algerian border to Rosso, east-west from Rosso to Nema bordering the Senegal
River and from Nouakchott to Nema in the center, and a route linking Boghe,
on the Senegal River, to Tidjika in the center of the country. Except for
the first axis and part of the second and third, the roads generally have
indefinite alignments, and sandstorms in the North and floods during the
wet season in the South sometimes make it necessary to drive vehicles cross-
country.
1.04      The Bank's involvement in the transport sector started in 1964
with a credit of US$6.7 million for the Road Project, Cr. 69-MAU, comprising
engineering and construction of the 200 km Nouakchott-Rosso Road and a road
maintenance study. The road was completed on schedule in 1969.
1.05      A second credit, Cr. 159-MAU, US$3.0 million, was made in 1969 for
the First Road Maintenance Project, 2/ based on the maintenance study carried
out under Cr. 69-MAU. It comprised the provision of new maintenance equipment,
a central workshop, training center and training of staff, reorganization of
the Directorate of Public Works, and the creation of four brigades for road
maintenance. The bulk of the planned road improvements and limited routine
maintenance were carried out; however, less than half of the target set for
1/   In 1975 the cost of transporting a ton 1,400 km from the port at
Nouakchott to Nema was US$140 and took nine days.
2/   Hereafter called the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project.



- 2 -
training staff was met at project completion in 1975. A cost overrun ot
US$345,000 was experienced, of which US$176,000 was financed subsequently
under the Third Highway Project. The Audit Report dated Februaryb6, 1978
commented on the inadequacies of man-power resources and the dependence
upon external assistance for project execution, the need for trainin6, tne
inadequacy of funds for maintenance, and the harsh physical environment and
attendant high unit costs.
1.06      The Third Highway Project, Credit 519-YiAU, for US23.0 million, tne
subject of this Completion Report, was designed to continue the effort begun
under the Second Highway Project, namely improving the road system, further
strengthening the maintenance organization and improving maintenance, ana
continuing the training effort. The information used in preparing this report
was obtained from files, site inspections and discussions during supervision
missions, and the final report of the consultants. The scarcity of information
available from the Borrower has somewhat limited the completeness of the
report.



II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      In July 1972, the Government requested a follow-up project to
the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project, which was then well-advanced, with
the primary objective of consolidating and expanding the results of the latter.
The Association appraised the Third Highway Project in September/October and
December 1973 on the basis of information provided by the Ministry of Equip-
ment (ME) and the consultants, and its own findings; negotiations were held in
Washington in September 1974. The Association (IDA), the Kuwait Fund (KF) and
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) agreed to co-finance the
project, and separate agreements were signed between the Government and these
agencies. The US$3 million IDA credit was signed December 11, 1974.
A.   Project Description
2.02      The project consisted of the following:
(a) a betterment program on about 365 km of roads;
(b) provision of highway equipment for maintenance and betterment works;
(c) technical assistance to the Ministries of Equipment, of Trade and
Transportation, and of Planning;
(d) feasibility study and detailed engineering for the construction of
the Rosso-Boghe Road (200 km).
Betterment Program
2.03      This comprised the betterment of about 365 km of road sections, mere
earth tracks without definite alignments on which traffic was often inter-
rupted, of which 165 km were in the North and 200 km in the Southeast. 1/ The
works included earthworks on new alignments to avoid sandy or periodically
flooded areas, and the construction of surface courses, drainage, and light
river-crossing structures.
Equipment
2.04      This component was to provide the necessary equipment to complete
the existing fleet of the highway brigades, including two compactors tank
trucks, a crane, and a lowbed trailer. It was also intended to provide some
equipment to continue building-up the maintenance capacity of seven of the
nine field subdivisions to adequate levels, Nouakchott and Nouadhibou being
already sufficiently equipped.
1/   Atar-Choum (125 km)
Akjoujt-Atar (40 km)
Boghe-Kaedi (100 km)
Kaedi-Kiffa (2 sections totalling 100 km)



-4-
Technical Assistance
2.05      The project provided for 350 man-months of technical assistance
mainly as an extension of that provided under the Second Highway (Maintenance)
Project, as follows:
-    five mechanical experts for 2-3 years for the Equipment Division of
the Ministry of Equipment to supervise the repair of highway equip-
ment, train operators and mechanics and prepare maintenance/repair
manuals;
-    three highway experts for 2-3 years for the Road and Airport
Division to help reorganize and train the field subdivisions, and
program and supervise their activities; determine the needs of the
highway recurrent budget; implement adequate accounting procedures
for highway operations; carry out engineering for the betterment
program; and provide supervision of the highway brigades;
-    a training expert for 3-4 months to prepare a training program;
-    fellowships;
-    a short term training expert to mount training programs; and
-    a transport planner/economist for two years to assist the Ministry
of Plan (MOP) in the analysis of transport investments and transport
organization; and a transport expert for two years to help the
Ministry of transport train truckers in management and accounting
techniques.
Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering of the Rosso-Boghe Road (Z00 Km)
2.06      This Rosso-Boghe Road was the priimary link between the existing
paved road network and the Senegal River Valley, the agriculturally most
productive area of the country.  It was served by a poor earth road which was
closed during half the year due to flooding. It was the most heavily traf-
ficked of Mauritania's unpaved roads, and a prime candidate for improvement.
B. Cost Estimate
2.07      The total cost of the project was estimated to be about US$13.7
million equivalent, of which US$9.5 million was for foreign costs and US$4.2
million equivalent for local costs, including US$2.4 million for taxes. Tne
cost estimate was based on price levels at the end of 1974; for the technical
assistance component they were estimated on the basis of Bank-financed con-
tracts for similar services at the time; for the betterment program they were
estimated on the basis of preliminary road surveys, and for equipment they
were based on CIDA's estimate.
2.08      The cost estimate included a 10% physical contingency for the
betterment program and equipment, and price contingencies which reflected
Bank guidelines as follows (see also Table 1):



1975:     11% for goods and services and 15% for civil worKs;
1976-79:  7.5% for goods and services, and 12% for civil works, excluding
equipment. As CIDA provided the equipment, the 17A. price
contingency they estimated for one year was included in the
Bank's cost estimate.
The project was expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
C. Co-financing
2.09      The arrangements agreed were:
(a) the Association and KF would finance, jointly, the totai cost,
ex-taxes, of technical assistance, pre-investment studles ana tne
betterment program in the ratio 44/56;
(b) CIDA would finance the foreign exchange cost of equipment and
related services; and
(c) the Government of Mauritania would finance taxes. 1/
2.10      On this basis the financing plan was:
IDA       KF         CIDA       GOVT.      TOTAL
in US$'000 equivalent
Technical Assistance         890     1,140           -          -       2,030
Betterment Program        1,100      1,390           -      1,650       4,140
Equipment                      -          -      3,495 a/       -       3,495
Feasibility Study            320       390           -          -         710
Unallocated                  690       880       1,005        720       3,29i
Total Financing      3,000      3,800       4,500      2,370     13,670
a/   Including a grant of US$300,000 for consulting services.
D. Covenants of the Credit Agreement
2.11      Covenants of  special significance were as follows:  (a) design
standards for roads' betterment should be those agreed between tne Borrower
and Association; (b) the opening of an account by the Borrower in the Treasury
where funds equivalent to three months' project expenditures were to be
maintained; (c) maintenance by the Borrower of the primary highway system and
provision of funds therefor, and provision by September each year of the
1/   The Government also undertook to finance the recurrent costs of road
maintenance and betterment works not included in the project.



- 6 -
proposed highway maintenance program and associated recurrent budget for the
following year for the Association's comments; (d) review by the Association
prior to construction of any new major highway construction proposed and its
maintenance cost implications; (e) provision of suitable counterparts to work
with technical assistance experts; (f) setting up of an information system
(para. 4.05); and (g) the control of axle loads.
2.12      During negotiations in September 1974, the IDA allocation was
increased by US$1.0 million. No major issues were raised, and the Credit was
signed December 11, 1974. It became effective on June 8, 1976. The long
interval was due to delay in effectiveness of the KF agreement (paras. 3.39-
3.40) and to the appointment of consultants financed under the Technical
Assistance component of the project (para. 3.10), both of which were conditions
of effectiveness of the project.



- 7 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      Many problems arose during project implementation, some with serious
consequences, with the result that the scope of the project had to be substan-
tially reduced, elements of the technical assistance component were ineffec-
tive and institutional advances were limited. Much of the difficulty stemmea
from the problems the country experienced during the 1970s, which affected
other Bank Group-financed projects in Mauritania as well. The following three
paragraphs are intended to provide some perspective on these problems.
Country Problems During Project Implementation
3.02      Mauritania experienced a severe drought in the early 197Js with
drastic human and economic consequences from the resultant decline of agricul-
tural production and the massive loss in the livestock herd. In 1974 economic
activity was just beginning to return to normal when the very large increase
in the price of petroleum products, together with increases in other import
prices, put pressure on the balance of payments and set the economy on an
unprecedented inflationary path. This situation was exacerbated in 1975 when
stagnation of the world steel market affected Mauritania's main export,
iron ore. In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, the Polisario (Front for the Liberation of Spanish Sahara) waged
guerilla operations against both Mauritania and Morocco which had divided the
administration of the territory between them, severely straining Mauritania's
already limited resources. In 1977 there was another drought, and it was
necessary to import large amounts of rice and millet of which only about half
was grant financed. In 1978 Mauritania experienced a coup which led to a
change in Government, with temporary disruption of the administrative activ-
ities. The consequences of all this were not only to fully deplete the
resources Government had for development and current operations including
maintenance, but to impose an additional burden on the already limited numan
resources and Government administration, and further weaken the effectiveness
of Government operations, including those relating to the execution of the
project.
Technical Assistance Prior to Project Implementation
3.03      During the years previous to the project's approval, substantial
French bilateral technical assistance was provided by FAG 1/ to the highway
administration. When the project was approved, there were five expatriate
experts in the central highway administration and one expert attached to each
of the four highway brigades and nine routine maintenance field divisions.
This was an integral element in the modus operandi for the administration and
supervision of maintenance activities, and implicitly one basis on which the
project was formulated. However in 1973 Mauritania discontinued using the
CFAF (tied to the French Franc) as its unit of currency, leaving the franco-
phone association. Since that time the Mauritanian unit of currency
1/   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation



- 8 -
has been the Ouguiya (UM). i/  For this and possibly other reasons there was
some diminution of the close relations France and Mauritania had enjoyed. In
the event, FAC's technical assistance to Mauritania was substantially reduced
in 1974/75, leaving ME's administration and field units considerably weakened.
Moreover, the French consultant, which had been engaged for the first two
highway projects and had enjoyed a good working relationship with the highway
administration, began to experience difficulties at about this time.
3.04      It will become apparent that the Association's technical assistance
activities met with severe difficulties in these changed circumstances, which
could not have been foreseen. The betterment program could only have been
mounted and executed efficiently if FAC technical assistance and/or the
consusltant were given substantial responsibility for supervising construction,
which did not happen (para. 3.14). The consultant was only able to give
limited technical assistance to the highway field divisions, and the divisions
were significantly weakened and their personnel reduced by the end of the
project, although not only for this reason.
A.   Equipment and Procurement
3.05      The Government signed the agreement for an interest free loan of
Can$4.2 million with CIDA in December 1975, for the purchase of equipment and
spare parts a full year after the IDA Credit Agreement was signed, due to
administrative delays. In the interests of simplifying procurement procedures,
a grant of Can$0.3 million was made to hire a Canadian consultant to act as
purchasing agent for the Mauritanian Government, and to be responsible for the
procurement of the equipment in Canada. The agreement provided that a Govern-
ment representative designated to handle procurement would exercise this duty
jointly with the purchasing agent in Canada. The Government and CIDA selected
a Montreal consulting firm to be purchasing agent in April 1976. However, the
arrangements proved ambiguous, and after considerable delay the traditional
system of sending documents to Mauritania for review and approval of the
Government was adopted. The National Tender Board in Mauritania authorized
the invitation for bids for the equipment only in October 1976.
3.06      In February 1976 the Government sent a delegation to Canada to
finalize the equipment list with CIDA. Either then, or on the occasion of a
visit of a subsequent delegation, two 18T compactor/rollers were omitted from
the list which had been discussed with the Association during negotiations.
Canadian suppliers submitted bids in December 1976. There were further
misunderstandings between Government and CIDA concerning procedures, and the
contracts were signed only by the summer of 1977. The first shipment of
equipment arrived in Dakar in August 1977, but was delayed two months at
Rosso, the entry port of Mauritania, to c:Larify the tax situation. The CIDA
agreement excluded financing of taxes; however, the customs authorities held up
1/   The UM was tied to a basket of currencies  throughout the project's
implementation period.



the equipment until formal authorization was obtained from Government _uthori-
ties in Nouakchott. The first shipment of equipment and trucks arrived at the
Central Workshop in Nouakchott in October/November 1977, about one and one-half
years after project effectiveness and three years after project signature.
3.07      A supervision mission in March 1978 learned of the lack of com-
pactors/rollers and strongly urged the Government to request the use of CIDA's
remaining funds to purchase two compactors. CIDA agreed to the purchase of
the compactors as well as Canadian spare parts to rehabilitate equipment
purchased earlier under the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project. The first
compactor was delivered in early 1979. In late 1979, CIDA authorized procure-
ment of the second compactor, from a non-Canadian source under the provisions
of the agreement which allowed 1/3 of the goods and services to be non-Canadian.
Fifteen non-Canadian landrovers delivered in late 1978 were procured on the
same basis. CIDA-financed procurement was completed in mid-1980.
3.08      The foregoing delayed the betterment works by about two years.
The lack of the compactors on the construction sites until 1979 affected
the quality of works during two construction seasons and shortened the life
of those roads which had still not been completed when the project ended.
Association Procurement
3.09      The procurement of goods and services financed by IDA proceeded
satisfactorily although with some delays. The largest item was the contract
for construction of the Kiffa-El Moundere Road (para. 3.27).
B. Technical Assistance
Consultants' Contract
3.10      On the basis of proposals obtained from firms short-listed during
negotiations, the Government selected a joint venture of a French and Canadian
consusltants in January 1975; the French consultant, in fact, had been em-
ployed under the first two credits and had assisted in preparing the third.
When price negotiations were held with the consultants it became apparent that
the cost of the services had been underestimated. This may have reflected the
increasing difficulty of doing work in the country, as the consultants price
was significantly above the appraisal estimate. The Government was unable to
negotiate a price within the amount of financing which had been provided for
technical assistance and eventually, the scope of the services was reduced.
The Government signed a technical assistance contract for a 25 month period on
a tax-exempt basis in March 1976; the base cost of the contract amounted to
about US$900,000, and provided for about 235 man-months in contrast with the
original 350 man-months envisaged at appraisal. An amendment to Credit
519-MAU, dated July 3, 1976, provided inter alia for this change.
Ministry of Equipment (ME)
3.11      The consultants commenced activities in the field in April 1976.
The road maintenance experts reviewed the road system, routine and periodic
road maintenance requirements, and the evolution of the road maintenance



- 10 -
budget. They also prepared a plan for the execution of the road betterment
program and proposed accounting procedures for it. They submitted their
report, Programme d'Entretien Routier, Rapport Initial, containing specific
recommendations to the Government and the Association in October 1976. The
Government never commented on the report. One reason may have been the death
of the Director of Infrastructure. However, some of the recommendations were
approved subsequently by the Government in independent decisions at the
consultants' specific request.
Ministry of Planning (MOP)
3.12      The planning expert worked at the MOP from December 1, 1976 to
March 1, 1978.  He estimated commodity flows and the rate of return of the
Nouakchott-Nema Road, recommended road transport tariffs, studied bus transport
in Nouakchott and prepared a report "Passengers and Freight Transport in
Mauritania" which analyzed several sector issues. MOP considered that the
planning expert made a useful contribution.
Mlinistry of Trade and Transportation
3.13      A management expert was assigned to the Ministry of Transportation
during January-November 1977. Although terms of reference called for him to
study the trucking industry, he was used by the Director of Transportation to
help with the administrative details of implementing the vehicle registration
system. His services were underutilized.
The Consultant's Participation
3.14      While the experts produced a number of studies and reports, they
were frustrated in accomplishing one of their main objectives, namely carrying
out a dialogue with the authorities on their findings, and participating in
the implementation of appropriate policies and procedures. Instead, the
Government did not react to the consultants reports and had little communica-
tion with them. In the case of ME, this was attributed to the administration's
managerial and technical weakness, and an unwillingness to delegate tasks to
consultants or use them to make up for managerial deficiencies; and the Govern-
ment's feeling that some staff assigned by the consultants were not fully
competent. The staff were later replaced for various reasons. As a result
the consultants' recommendations were sometimes regarded as a test of authority
and challenged; decisions were postponed and recommendations often not followed.
The consultants had no authority to give instructions to improve methods of
work, with consequent waste, delays and inefficiency. Often, the consultants
spent their efforts in routine tasks which underutilized their skills. This
state of affairs applied as well to the consultants in their role as advisers
in the road betterment component (para. 3.28) and was a major contributing
factor to its inefficient execution. It also applied to the training activi-
ties (para. 3.15-3.19). The limited and uncertain role to which the con-
sultants were consigned seems to have stenLmed largely from the situation
described in paras. 3.03-3.04, as well as a general lack of understanding of
now to use consultants effectively.



- 11 -
Training
3.15      The project was intended to continue the training of highway mainte-
nance and workshop personnel started under the Second highway (Maintenance)
Project, and to extend it to foremen and supervisors, on two levels: on-the-
job training of counterparts assigned to work with expatriates, and formal
training conducted by a training expert.  Refresher courses qe-e planned for
supervisory and management personnel as were fellowships for studying anroad.
In mid-1976, the consultants' training expert evaluated the highway maintenance
and workshop personnel and their training needs. His recommendations were
submitted to the Covernment and Association in September 1976 in the "Kapport
sur la Formation du Personnel des Services Routiers." The Government did not
comment on the report and most of the recommendations were ignored.
3.16      The consultants' training specialist arrived in Nouakchott early in
1977 to implement the formal training program. In the beginning, the Govern-
ment failed to assign personnel to training classes. Later, it did assign
some but then prematurely reassigned them to other duties. In mid-1977, tne
Minister of Construction nominated 40 workmen to the training program, out in
November 1977, the Government discontinued the services of the training expert
after only ten months in the country, and formal training ceased. Of the
40 workmen nominated, four drivers (10%) passed the consultants' test, twenty-
seven (67%) required additional training and nine (23%) left the Government
within six months. The Government advised the consultants in January 1976
that it did not intend to continue the training program.
3.17      The consultants' contract had to be extended several times because
of delays in implementing the betterment program. A total of 232 man-months
of consultants' services were expended on the project, compared with tne 23)
man-months provided for in the contract amendment (para. 3.1U). The cost of
their services is discussed in para. 3.43 and their performance in para. 6.U6.
The consultants' contract terminated in June 1980. 1/
3.18      In January 1978 a Bank training specialist visited Mauritania to
review the situation, summing it up in his report of April 1978 as follows:
(i)  there were severe organizational and managerial weaknesses within
ME, with little understanding of and support for training;
(ii)  personnel policies, including salaries, manpower planning, and
advancement opportunities were weak;
(iii) little effective training had been done under the project due to
poor organization, lack of managerial support, and unwillingness ot
supervisors to free personnel for training; and
1/   Following the expiration of the contract, the mechanical engineers' stay
in Mauritania was prolonged until July 1980, financed by French bilateral
assistance (FAC), to assist in equipment maintenance.



- 12 -
(iv) there was an urgent need for a long-term training program, but
the shortcomings were so pervasive that short-term improvements in
job performance were likely to be marginal.
3.19      Following the change in Government in July 1978, the new administra-
tion appeared to have a somewhat better attitude toward training. however, at
that stage of project implementation, funds were insufficient to start a major
effort and formal training was not resumed. There was some on-the-job training,
for example, the two mechanics provided on-the-job training for workshop
personnel. The Government, which had been unable to provide counterparts
initially lacking qualified personnel did so to a modest degree. For example,
in 1977 the Minister of Equipment was able to name two counterparts for nine
expatriate consultants.
Preinvestment Study
3.20      Consultants BCEOM/Lamarre Valois were selected for the feasibility
study of the Rosso-Boghe Road. After the study was underway it became evident
that the Government had decided to construct the main East-West highway
between Nouakchott and Nema, eliminating the main justification for improving
the Rosso-Boghe road. Consequently, in January 1976 the bank recommended to
Government the discontinuation of the feasibility study, since improvement of
the Rosso-Boghe Road appeared premature and not commensurate with the uncer-
tainty of agricultural development in the Senegal River Valley. However,
despite further representations, the study was continued and the feasibility
study submitted to Government in May 1976. The ultimate construction of the
Rosso-Boghe Road and use of the study may hinge on the proposed construction
of the Diama Dam near the mouth of the Senegal River with the assistance of
bilateral funds provided through the vehicle of the Office de Mise en Valeur
du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS), which is responsible for the study and execution of
a broad based development plan of the river in Senegal, Mali and Mauritania.
The Diama Dam would provide a large irrigation command area along the shores
of the river in Senegal and in Mauritania. The Rosso-Boghe Road would inter
alia provide access to the irrigated area on the Mauritania side.
C.   Road Betterment Program
3.21      The initial objective of the project was to reconstruct 365 km of
roads, mere earthtracks without definite alignment, to laterite road standards:
(i) the Atar-Choum Road (125 km); (ii) a 40 km section of the Akjoujt-Atar
Road; (iii) the Boghe-Kaedi Road (100 km); and two sections of the Kaedi-Kiffa
Road (100 km). It was planned that four highway brigades would carry out tne
earthworks under force account, and that contractors would construct the
drainage structures and bridges.
3.22      When the Government realized that the Canadian equipment would not
be delivered in the early stages of project implementation, it decided, with
the agreement of the Association, to regroup the equipment available for the
four brigades and central workshop, and to start construction of the Atar-
Sequelil and Atar-Choum sections. The Government and Association also
recognized by this time that project implementation problems were increasing



- 13 -
and considered that two brigades would be more likely to succeed than four.
These road sections were given priority as they linked the road from Nouakchott
to the railroad from the iron mining area, this road having assumed special
importance in view of the guerilla warfare which began in 1976. The highway
brigade at Atar was equipped in April 1977 and work commenced. The residual
equipment was assigned to the second brigade on the Boghe-Kaedi Road, on which
4         work began in July 1978, but at a slow pace due to the limited amount of
equipment available. When the Canadian equipment arrived, it was distributed
to the two brigades and a small amount allocated to the field highway mainte-
nance divisions.
3.23      In May 1977, following a guerilla attack in the northern part of
the country, the consultants' chief of mission (resident engineer) judged
the region unsafe and requested that they be released from supervising
the Atar-Choum Road. Following negotiations between the Government and the
consultants in Paris, the resident engineer was replaced and it was agreed
that only volunteers would be assigned to dangerous locations. By January
1978, the middle 53 km section of the Atar-Choum Road was completed except for
compaction (para. 3.06) and drainage structures (para. 3.26). At that point,
the workers went on strike because of the danger from guerilla activity.
Thereafter, they worked only on the Atar-Sequelil section which was completed
in 1979, including compaction of most of the length, but without drainage
structures. This marked the end of road construction activity under the
project in the North. After November 1978, the equipment was moved from
Choum to Boghe, with a small amount moved to Kiffa, which enabled the Boghe-
Kaedi Road betterment to proceed at a more normal pace.
3.24      It had become evident over time that there would be insufficient
funds to complete the road betterment program. Delays and other factors
increased the cost substantially. Consequently, the project was amended in
June 1979 to, inter alia, reduce the betterment component to a total of 215 km
comapared with the original 365 km as follows:
Original   Amended   Partially -  or Fully -/ Completed
Atar-Choum         125 km       50 km                     54 1/
Atar-Sequelil       40          45                        45 1/
Boghe-Kaedi        100          70              approx. 100 1/
Kaedi-Kiffa        100          50                        50 2/
365        215                       249
The amended targets reflected the de facto status of the Atar-Choum and Atar-
Sequelil roads and reductions in the length of the Boghe-Kaedi and Kaedi-
M'3out-Kiffa sections.
3.25      The shortage of funds also necessitated the cancellation of the plan
to construct drainage works and bridges by contractors. A supervision mission
agreed with the Government in October 1977 that simple submerged bridges
should be constructed by two brigades specializing in concrete drainage
structures to be created by the Borrower. It was further agreed that the



- 14 -
construction of three larger bridges near Kaedi and M'Bout, which would De
beyond the capability of the brigades, should be cancelled after an assessment
showed that these roads would still be passable during most of the year. In
spite of the fact that 30 km of the Boghe-Kaedi Road which contained two of
the bridge locations were cancelled (para. 3.28) the Borrower improved this
section to make it passable for much of the year. This work was financed in
part with local funds which the Borrower had deposited to open tne Special
Account but which were not withdrawn when it was closed a short time later
(para. 3.36).
3.26      A March 1978 supervision mission found that the drainage brigades
had not been formed and again urged the Government to establish them. In any
event, they were not established for reasorLs which are obscure. It is possible
the responsible parties in the administration misunderstood the distinction
between the large and small bridges and drainage works in general. Action may
have become stalled as the result of the many changes and difficulties within
the betterment program and the difficult economic and political climate.
Moreover, the Government may not have had access to funds to create these new
units. In any case, the lack of submerged bridges and of drainage facilities
on the improved roads led to heavy erosion of some sections from the high
run-off which occurs during the rainy season. In fact, several sections of
the Atar-Sequelil Road were washed away in 1979 by an extremely severe
storm, and had to be rebuilt. The proposed Fourth Highway Project would
provide drainage structures on the Boghe-Kaedi and Atar-Sequelil Roads, and
engineering studies for the remedial works and three large bridges near Kaedi
and M'Bout. This would eventually result in the substantial completion of the
betterment works as amended in Credit 519-.LAU, June 1979 (para. 3.24), except
for the provision of drainage structures and recompaction on the Atar-Choum
section.
3.27      In view of the lack of progress on the Kaedi-Kiffa road, it was
decided in 1978 to improve a 50 km section by contractor, although the
Government had at the outset objected to contracting the betterment program.
A contract for a fixed sum of UM 56.2 million (US$1.26 million) was awarded
in August 1979 on a tax exempt basis to a Mauritanian contractor, for the
entire works. The Government agreed to provide materials ana supplies
such as spare parts, fuel, and water for compaction, which were difficult to
obtain. The work proceeded satisfactorily, but contract funds were exhausted
after completion of 38 km. There was a delay in completing tne remaining 12
km, which was finally done when arrangements were made to utilize the remaining
Association funds. They were disbursed on an IDA 80% - KF 2U% ratio, compared
with the 44/56 ratio (para. 2.08), at an additional cost of US$600,UUO. The
work, which was completed by the end of 1980, is satisfactory.
Quality of the Betterment Works
3.28      The Credit Agreement did not provide for the consultants to manage
the betterment works and the Borrower did not generally follow the consultant's
advice (para. 3.14). This, as well as the initial lack of compaction equip-
ment, resulted in a number of deficiencies, i.e.: (i) materials were often not
properly selected; (ii) the volume of water used was insufficient for optimum



- 15 -
compaction; (iii) there was a lack of geotechnical control; and (iv) the
volume of work was generally low, peaking at about 20-30,000 m3 per month.
Production was hampered by: (i) lack of key equipment due to breakdowns; (ii)
slow repair works; (iii) inexperience of operators; (iv) lack of funds (petty
cash, special account); and (v) inadequate supervision and planning. The
amended targets for road betterment were partially met by force account, and
partly by contractor (para. 3.24). However, the force account sections were
not provided with drainage structures, and one road section was not compacted.
Lacking drainage structures, sections of these roads eroded or washed away,
and become impassable, and will remain so until such damaged sections are
rebuilt (para. 3.26).
3.29      After the change of Government in 1978, the Borrower made a greater
effort to address the problems and to improve the quality of works. It was
at this juncture that CIDA authorized the purchase of two compactors, and
agreed to rent a compactor in the meantime. The Borrower gave some heed to
the consultants' advice and in September 1978, the Government appointed
a Project Director. Generally, execution of betterment works appeared to go
ahead somewhat better after mid-1978, but with many of the chronic diffi-
culties continuing.
D.   Maintenance of Roads
3.30      Under the project the Government undertook the general obligation
to maintain the road network (para. 2.11). The highway experts (para. 2.05)
were to assist in reorganizing the field subdivisions for highway maintenance,
training the personnel, and programming and supervising their activities. The
project also included CIDA purchase of some highway equipment for maintenance.
3.31      The improved road network increased from 1,500 km in 1970 to 2,800 km
in 1980, due mainly to the construction with Arab agency funds of the 1,200 km
paved Nouakchott-Nema Road. As desert roads need regular systematic mainte-
nance to avoid deterioration this substantially increased the demand for road
maintenance.
3.32      The road maintenance expenditures (Fonds Routier) exclusive of
personnel costs (para. 2.11) were as follows:
-------------------US$ Millions Equivalent------------------
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
1.39    1.72    1.73    1.76    1.67    1.79    2.2        1.45
In real terms the funds allocated to road maintenance diminished over time,
and insufficient funds were budgeted to maintain the network.  Moreover,
the Government found it necessary in view of its lack of funds to switch a
significant portion of the budget allocations in 1977, 1978 and 1979 from
maintenance to the road betterment program.



- 16 -
3.33      By 1977/78 the Government could not afford to pay salaries to the
maintenance personnel due to Mauritania's severe economic and political
difficulties. There was considerable attrition in the number of workmen and
in 1978 routine maintenance practically came to a halt. The four brigades had
been financed under the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project in 1971/72,
experienced similar difficulties. By 1976 the equipment fleet needed rehaDil-
itation and renewal. However, the Government had been decreasing the funds
available for the brigades and the funds provided that year were insufficient
to do the program, although the Rosso-Nouakchott Road, a main traffic artery,
was fairly well kept up.
3.34      The highway divisions went through several reorganizations, includ-
ing increases and decreases in the number of divisions, to no avail. The only
equipment they received from CIDA was a few landrovers. The project contribu-
tion to maintenance was very small in the face of the limited assistance
specified in the project, the severe budget and administrative difficulties,
and the disruption of FAC technical assistance (para. 3.03 and 3.04).
E.   Other Aspects of Project Implementation
3.35      The Borrower had undertaken to open a Special Account in the
Treasury, with an initial deposit sufficient to finance project expenditures
for three months, which was to be periodically replenished from the Credit
Account. A second account, in a commercial bank, credited with funds withdrawn
from the Special Account, was to be opened to cover small expenditures under
the project.
3.36      The commercial bank account was never opened.  Despite frequent
requests the Government did not open the Special Account until December 6,
1977, US$450,000 equivalent being deposited December 29. However, on
December 31, 1977, two days later, the Government enacted a new law eliminating
all such special accounts in the Treasury, said to number 200-300 and to
account for 2/3 of the budget, in compliance with the request of the IMF in
the interests of stabilizing Mauritania's economy.
3.37      Subsequently the Special Account was replaced by a line item in
the national budget, reimbursements from the Association and KF being deposited
in the General Treasury. The Minister of Finance emphasized that such pay-
ments were reimbursements for work prefinanced by the Government, and that it
could not guarantee they would be used for project purposes. In fact, this
system continued to be used only for payment of salaries and other direct
expenses paid by the Borrower. The Special Account provision of the Credit
Agreement was waived by the Association and new payment procedures, including
direct disbursement to the supplier/contractor by the Association, were later
adopted.
The Association's Posture
3.38      As time progressed, concern grew within the Association as to
where the Project was headed. Towards the end of 1977, it became evident the
Project could at best meet only some of the original objectives and that it



- 17 -
either should be reduced in scope to reflect the realities, or be termi-ated.
The Association and KF agreed to the former course at the 1978 Annual Bank/Fund
meetings. The Credit was amended in June 1979 (para. 3.24) to reduce the size
of the betterment program and to drop the provisions for the Special Account
and iellowships. Concurrent with this, the Project was exempted from taxes
and duties, eliminating the Government's contribution.
Co-donors
3.39      The Government and project experienced some difficulties in conjunc-
tion with the co-donors. The most important were the long delay in procurement
of CIDA-financed highway equipment (para. 3.05-3.08) and failure to provide
compactors at the outset. The overlong delay in effectiveness of the Credit
(para. 2.12) was attributable in part to a misunderstanding between the
Association and KF concerning the inclusion in the project, subsequent to
Credit approval, of the overrun on the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project
(para. 1.05). The need for overrun financing was addressed in August 1975.
In answer to the Government's request the Association advised the Government
it should seek KF's approval to include the overrun of $195,000 in the project,
since the Association and KF were jointly financing their share of the project.
The Government was unable to obtain KF approval on the grounds that this
element was not part of the package on which joint financing was based, and
was an Association concern. To resolve the issue the Association agreed in
March 1976 to employ part of the Association's unallocated category for the
purpose. The Credit Agreement was amended in August 1976 to, inter alia,
create a second technical assistance category of US$195,000 (reduced to
US$175,000 in the June 1979 amendment). Inasmuch as KF did not make its loan
effective until this was settled, the Association was unable to make the
Credit effective until June 1976 in view of the KF cross-effectiveness condi-
tion. The delay in the signing of the consultants' technical assistance
contract (para. 3.00) would in any case have delayed effectiveness until
March 1976.
3.40      The delay in reaching agreement on the June 1979 amendment, and on
taking other steps to improve project implementation, must be partly ascribed
to the need to first reach a common understanding among an inefficient Govern-
ment administration, the codonors, and the Association.
Compliance with Credit Covenants
3.41      The Borrower was unable to fulfill most of the important covenants
(para. 2.11): (i) the provision of a special account in the treasury was
eventually waived; (ii) the highways system was not adequately maintained,
budgets for the purpose were inadequate and only a portion of the funds
allocated under them were made available; (iii) information on proposed major
highway construction was provided to the Association but its views were not
ful:Ly considered; (iv) it was not possible for the Government to provide
counterparts through most of the project. The standard covenant concerning
efficient execution of the project was not met.



- 18 -
Project Cost
3.42      Actual total project cost was ascertained to be US$12.04 million,
including taxes. However, the scope of the project was greatly reduced,
and the actual cost is not comparable with the appraisal estimate of US$13.7
million. The main reductions were: (i) the technical assistance actually
provided amounted to 232 man-months against the original 330 man-months, and
(ii) the betterment program actually carried out comprised about 249 Km vs
365 km originally planned; drainage systems were provided for only 20X of
the total; and bridges were not built. The estimated and actual costs given
in Table I, do indicate some differences but show mainly that the full amounts
provided by the co-donors were expended, if on a smaller project. It is not
possible to estimate the size of the cost overrun because the cost of bridges
and other works required to complete the betterment program are not known.
Disbursements
3.43      The Government was slow to transmit disbursement requests for direct
payments and, in general, the pace of disbursements was slow, well behind
appraisal estimates, until the end of the project. Only 66% of the funds had
been disbursed by mid-1980, when, according to the appraisal estimate, the
Credit should have been fully disbursed (Table III). At December 15, 1981
about 98% had been disbursed (Table III). The project was "completed" at
about the end of 1980; however, the closing date of the Credit was extended to
December 31, 1981, to enable disbursements to be completed.
Credit Amendments
3.44      The Credit Agreement was amended twice: on July 3, 1976 to reduce
the technical assistance component from 350 to 200 man-months (para. 3.10),
provide US$195,000 in retroactive financing for the First highway Project
(para. 3.39), and extend the completion date to December 31, 1980 and tne
closing date to June 30, 1981; and again on May 31, 1979 to reduce the Detter-
ment works from 365 to 215 km, exempt the project from taxes, and provide for
100% financing by external donors (the Association and the Kuwait Fund) (para.
3.24).



- 19 -
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4.0.1     The project provided for a broad program of institutional develop-
ment. While the experts provided for this purpose carried out a number ot
studies there was little response to them from Government, except in the
Ministry of Plan, and their overall impact was small (paras. 3.11-3.13). Tne
training program experienced a similar fate, and the actual training done was
quite limited (paras. 3.15-3.17).  It became evident that institutional
shortcomings were so pervasive that short-term training efforts were likeiy to
have only marginal value.
4.02      This unsatisfactory experience appears to have stemmed from:
(i)  Government's preoccupation with the continuing grave country
difficulties;
(ii)  limited ability of Government institutions to comprehend,
absorb and utilize institution development activities; and
(iii)  the relatively poor relationship between Government and the
consultants may also have contributed (paras. 3.03-3.04).



- 20 -
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
5.01      It is not possible to re-evaluate the economic return in a meaningful
way because the roads were not completed, and will deteriorate rapidly without
further intervention. Moreover, the presenat level of traffic on these
roads is uncertain. The only available traffic counts are as follows:
Date of   Vehicles      Percent heavy
Road Sections                    Count    per Day          Vehicles
North (Akjoujt-Atar-Choum)        10/72       40              28
South (Boghe-Kaedi-Kiffa)          1/74       24              83
The traffic count in the North was consistent with the appraisal estimate of
50 v.p.d. in 1974; however, the count in the South, made some months after
project appraisal, was substantially lower than the appraisal estimate of
75 v.p.d. in 1974. Traffic patterns since these counts were taken have been
erratic. In particular, military traffic :Ln the North has been unusually high
due to the Polisario conflict; agricultura:L traffic in the South has grown
slowly because of repeated droughts; and other traffic may have remained low
because of Mauritania's economic difficulties. It is reported that most
traffic in the South presentiy travels on the paved road on the Senegalese
side of the river (see map), with the vehicles remaining in Senegal. The
extent of this traffic is not known.
5.02      Betterment works of the type financed by the project would normally
have a service life of about eight years. This is expected to be the case for
the Kiffa El-Moundere section, which was properly constructed by the contrac-
tor. However, there is considerable uncertainty over the serviceability and
economic life of those road sections which were not provided with drainage and
in one section, Atar-Choum, not compacted. The Boghe-Kaedi section, located
in the South, is subject to heavy rainfall every year. The Atar-Choum and
Atar-Akjoujt sections, located in the North, are subject to less frequent but
nonetheless intense rainfall. The roads were in fact damaged during the 1979
and 1980 rainy seasons. It is therefore likely that to keep them in serviceable
condition, major interventions will be required on these roads within about
two years after they were partly constructed. The proposed Fourth Highway
Project would finance the most urgent drainage structures, and include a
feasibility study for the bridges and remedial works required to complete
these two roads.
5.03      The roads which were partly constructed under the project perform
important economic functions.  The northern sections extend the country's main
north-south road to the railhead at Choum. The southern sections form part of
the main east-west road serving the Senegal River Valley, the agriculturally
most productive area of the country. However, the economic return for the
roads will be negative if they are not completed, based on a calculation of
vehicle operating cost savings, even if rather optimistic traffic levels are
assumed. 1/ This would be the case if the roads' service life is taken as two
years, and traffic levels are assumed as follows:



- 21 -
a)   1981 traffic in the North is 60 v.p.d. having grown 5% p.a.
since it was counted in 1972;
b)   1981 traffic in the South is 45 v.p.d., having grown 10% p.a.
since it was counted in 1974, due to agricultural development;
c)   future traffic grows 10% p.a. as the economy recovers.
5.04      The rate of return from the completed Kiffa-El Moundere section in
the South, which is expected to serve about eight years, would be about 13%
assuming the above traffic levels and vehicle operating costs savings. This
rate of return would have been more representative of the project as a whole
if the roads had been completed.
5.05      The highway system was not adequately maintained during the project
implementation period (para. 3.34), and the benefits from this element of the
project were inconsequential. The overall rate of return from the project is
therefor estimated to be negative assuming the roads are not completed. This
compares with rates of return estimated at the time of appraisal, which were
16% for betterment works in the North, and 35% for those in the South.
5.06      The disparity between the expected and actual rates of return on
the Kiffa-El Moundere section, putting aside the hypothetical nature of the
traffic growth assumed, reflects the lower traffic than estimated at appraisal
and the larger per kilometer construction cost, due to the delay in implemen-
tation coupled with inflation, and the higher cost of contracting this section
than doing it by force account.
1/   Vehicle operating costs used in the calculation were estimated by the
Ministry of Plan in 1977 with technical assistance provided under the
project as follows:
Vehicle Operating Costs on
Gravel/Earth Roads (UM/vkm at 1977)
Excellent                    Poor
Vehicle                        Condition                  Condition
Car                               6.5                       10.6
12-ton truck                     26.5                       51.7
Bus (26 seats)                   15.7                       23.2



- 22 -
VI. PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT, ASSOCIATION
AND CONSULTANTS AND CONCLUSIONS
Government's Performance
6.01      The response of Government and institutions concerned with the
project was often inadequate. With the pervasive country problems that beset
the Government's administrative apparatus, it was difficult for it to give
priority to project problems. After allowance for this, the fact remains that
Government performance could have been improved upon throughout, as it did
somewhat in the later stages of the project. The reasons for the foregoing
are given in the section on institutional development (paras. 4.01-4.02).
Association's Performance
6.02      On the basis of the record of the highway sector in Mauritania,
there was little evidence to suggest that a major civil works road project,
including 365 km of widely scattered betterment works, could be done by force
account.  Force account is usually associated with maintenance activities or
works carried out by organizations with some record of sound organization,
adequate management and reasonable accomplishment, which was not the case
here. While the Government was against contracting civil works, it would seem
that the Association might have made the issue of contracting vs force account
a major consideration. The difference in results between force account work
and of the 50 km Kiffa section done by domestic contractors provides ex-post
evidence. Whether the consultants could have got the force account job done
successfully if it had been given management responsibility is a matter of
conjecture. Had the full FAC team remained in Mauritania, working in conjunc-
tion with Government and the consultants, force account might conceivably have
worked out.
6.03      On the institution-building side, supervision and other missions
addressed the many problems in a reasonably direct and thorough manner.
But Government was so often unresponsive as to make supervision for this
purpose largely ineffective. While the Government was the source of this
difficulty, it was also true that the Government did not have the capability
to deal with the problems. For this reason, the project's technical assistance
and related institutional-building elements appear altogether too ambitious
and unrealistic. In retrospect, the Association's approach to institution
building should have been on a simpler plane, with more modest objectives.
6.04      The Association was helpful to the Government in readily responding
to the need to amend the Credit Agreement and project content to reflect
changing conditions, although efforts were slowed by the need to cordinate
changes with the codonors (para. 3.10). The frequency of supervision missions
was generally adequate, but the extensive efforts made by the Association to
assist the Government with its procurement problems may have reduced the time
missions could spend on field works. However, there is little in the record
to suggest that increased supervision would have significantly affected the
outcome.



- 23 -
6.05      Whether, in 1977, the Association should have sought to terminate
the project when it became apparent that, at best, the project could only
be partially completed, and this with continuing difficulty, is a question.
The Association was devoting a large amount of time and effort to.a question-
able cause, and it was becoming increasingly unlikely that the country was
going to obtain adequate benefit from the project.
6.06      Finally the engineering studies which were carried out for the
Boghe-Kaedi road prior to project appraisal did not provide an adequate basis
for estimating the cost of the bridges required to be constructed near Kaedi,
due in part to the changing regime of the river. If the Association had
insisted on more complete investigation prior to apraisal some of the subse-
quent uncertainties over how best to complete the works could have been
avoided.
Consultants Performance
6.07      The consultants' success was at best modest, and there is some
temptation to blame them, in part, for the poor infrastructure results and
the lack of success in the technical assistance efforts. It would probably be
an error to do so. While they were reluctant to continue in the North when
guerilla activity became dangerous, this is understandable. In the latter
stages of the project, they tended to employ less experienced staff, but this
should be considered in the light of the reception the perhaps more experienced
staff had been receiving. In the TA aspect, it was evident that regardless of
what the consultants provided, Government was occupied with other things and
the possible fruits of TA withered. The infrastructure situation is more
complex. It is clear that the consultants were not given the job of managing
the road betterment program but of advising on it. It is also manifest that
the consultants leverage with the authorities and the supervisory staff
directing force account activities was, in contrast with the past, small,
presumably because of the changed relationship between the Government and FAC
(paras. 3.03-3.04).
Conclusions
6.08      The project was at best partially successful.  Only about 50% of the
originally planned infrastructure, or about 60% of the amended infrastructure
program, was done. But some of it may not endure. The technical assistance
provided for institutional development, and studies related thereto, were
of limited effectiveness in meeting objectives.
6.09      The difficulties with the infrastructure components stemmed in
the first instance from the use of force account, rather than a contractor, to
do the work. The Mauritanians did not have a force account establishment
capable of a job of the magnitude involved, particularly in view of the
withdrawal of FAC technicians, and the Government's unwillingness or lack of
understanding on how to use consultants to manage projects. In any case, the
host of major country problems which beset the Government during the implemen-
tation period, its institutional weaknesses and lack of financial resources



- 24 -
would have made the implementation of any project very difficult. Finally, the
involvement of co-donors coupled with an inefficient Government administration,
made it more difficult for the Administrat:Lon to identify and respond quickly
to project implementation problems when they arose.
6.10      A Fourth Highway Project for the purpose of completing the amended
betterment program and reviewing road maintenance strategy was negotiated in
December 1981. The lessons learned in the Third Highway Project are being
taken into account. The civil works will be done by contractor, and institu-
tional objectives are modest.



PROJECT COMPLETION FEPORT
MAURITANIA THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 519-MAU)
Cost Estimates by Source of Finance
(Including Taxes and Contingencies, US$ Millions)
AT At   OtA15AL-                                                                   T1?1TATZD  MAL'                                        l.t1 .d P.-tU9
Proj~~1 It..  I-~~~4t~       1.           lTDA                     I                        APOMSAL                                                                                                                                 . f401.1O   0   -Ok
07             l.t.            A4tt1        lDi       S         U7       =  2      tlDA      t       t...        !      lot-     _ Ilk    _S        07       t       CIDA       S       boI.           ? CD    tOTAL   dt1l0-11o   ot.0.0d
1. .ocvoleu1 A..1.-  UC10I               4/IS                      1.05       44       1.15        54                                            0.40     4.40      44     1.16     04                                                   1.D6            *S
1.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   .5                                     3
C. 7 5,-MA                                                                                                                                             0.1U    100                                                                    0.18            -
3. ?t .-i.           LV                11/77                       0.35       44      0.4           5'                                           0.a0     0.50      44    0.64      54                                                   1.14           100
4. Ct,U bj -s ltt                       1/0                        1.44       24       2.U         14                        1.40        40     -6.DD     1.42      5      2.14     51                           4.0           15        ..              50
10,0   P r-g      A3)  Iis
3. Lq.LpOOt          CD1                                                                                   4.30    100                           4.34                                        4*50     200                                4.30           100
tOtAL 00St                                                      2.44       21       3.84        19      4.30     32       2.40        1s     13.70     5.00      23     1.94     33       4.50      3?        0.60                   .2.04
1/  At 010.4.A  r.t. 001.00, W s0.
2/  At *_kj  ..w  US I.00  CHW 45.
t-4



- 26 -
TABLE 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 519-MAU)
Project Cost Estimates
(Including Taxes, US Millions)
:oject Item
AT APPRAISAL             ESTIMATED FINAL
(Including Contingencies)                            % Project
Foreign   Local  Total  Foreign   Local  Total  Completion
Technical Assistance          2.00      0.40   2.40    1.72       0.34   2.06       65
OCverrun Cr. 159-MAU             -        -       -     0.18        -    0.18        -
Financing
Preinvestment Studies         0.64      0.16   0.80    0.95       0.19   1.14      100
Civil Works                   2.40      3.601' 6,001' 2.74        1.421/ 4.1lJ'    50
(Road Betterment)
OEquipment                    4.50        -    4.,50    4.50        -    4.50      100
Jatal Cost                       9.50     4.141/13,701' 10.09 -    1.95  12.04-    -
/   Including taxes of $2.4 million.
Including taxes of $0.6 million (taxes were only imposed on category 4, civic works;
however, they amounted to much less than forecast because this component became exempt
from taxes during the project, and the civil works were reduced in scope).
_i! Exchange rate - US$1.00 - UM 50.
771  Exchange rate = US$1.00 _ UM 45.



- 27 -
TABLE 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 519-MAU)
Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD             ACCUMULATED DISBURSEMIENTS
FISCAL               US$'000 EQUI ALENT                   ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
YEAR AND                                APPRAISAL              AS PERCENTAGE
SEMESTER         ACTUAL TOTAL          ESTIMATE            OF APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
1975
is t
2nd                                     300
1976
Ist                                     600
2nd                                  1,000
1977
1st                 422              1,300                         32
2nd                  680             1,600                         42
1978
Ist                  914             1,900                         49
2nd               1,100              2,200                         50
1979
1st               1,439              2,500                         58
2nd               1,613              2,700                         66
1980
1st               1,998               3,000                        66
2nd               2,251                                            75
1981
1st               2,645                                            88
2nd
1982
lst               2,925 I/                                         98
Closing Date       12/31/81            12/31/80
1/ As of December 15, 1981






__RD I 7243(PCR)
C',                                        12'                                       2'            MAY 1983
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                                                              AFRIC A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
- E7TrERMENT ViORKS
22;'     PREi OUS IDA PROJECT                                                        MCGROCQC 
PAVED ROADS
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
LATER TEREARTH ROADS                                 Aai0n
j  -   - TRAILS                                                Aa;un
RAILROAD 1)                                                                                                       A L GE  R I A
A RFIEELDS                                                                                                   "N
INTERNAiIONAL AIRPORTS                                 \                                             |N
PORTS                                              \ -1jl
NTERNAT ONAL BOUNDARIES
I          ~~~IND CAlES THE TER91TO R OF THE 
FORMER SPANISH SAHARA                                               ir-MoNhrein
( IAESTE RN SAHARA_
FORMER
ON.C? ISC  2r0  'NO    S           = T AND51I S Lj                                   'I                          N
r LCME'EHS       0                          N     -                                                             N .-_
-24'                          S                             A  RA
ID)Kh a                                                     -} .         
(VIlci-Cisnoros)                                                                                         * /N
if                                                                                            --  --N~~~~~~~~~~t - - - -- - - -- - - --M L
d ~ ~~                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-  /-                           .--< 
La Germf                                                      0|erk                           __M
(e     ZOU2C- L_
N'            ,'i
N',D,    .gue
La GQerroc                                            g-0OCIbO  m Qradn                     
Atur. (C
r:!Ov ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~ANDI O/~ uRO                        _      guett                                  *                                          2C-
F.o Id  k            TiLchitt
NOuAKCHOTT  e                                                          N '
)n   n3GUhloutimlt   CaOngo"o        telrl                     ,       
t5 ;-NiTomchaketr                         ._Ooloto
W             St, LOUIXLt                                                    a                              fD       *Ibda                                       r
SIN~  >- 4'\                                                             Nl MGunoere                      -, AJyoRor Nbre  
(A MatNrn!c              0 ,!NA  f   *   oro duSoDel
+    {t                               Xfe 1~~~~~~~~~~I ba by
DAKAR                                                        Bakel                                   LM        A        L       I
S    E    N    E   G   A    L              I) S',l,,l                                         I'll ,4< ,,,,/gS, ,n,,,,v,,,   , o
i                  ~           ~           ~           ~         ~~16-  1 2'                                     8'



