Report No. 493a-MAU                                                          d      p,
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
Mauritania
October 30, 1974
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be pu9ished, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or cormpleteness of the report.



Currency Ecjuivalenta
Ourrency Unit  =  Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00        =  UM 50
UN 1           = US$ 0.02
UN 1 million   = US$ 20,000.
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
SYstem of Weights and Measures: Metric
:=tric                        Britiph/eS Bcuivalents
1 meter (m)                   3.28 feet (ft)
i kilometer (km)          =   0.62 mile (mi)
i square kilometer (kom')     0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metrie ton (m ton)          2,204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)               -   0.26 US gallon (gal)
= 0.22 British gallon (imp gai)
Abbreviations and Acronms
ADF   - African Development Fund
CIDA - Canadian International Development Agency
DfW   - Directorate ef Public Works
IF    - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
ME    - Ministry of Equipment
MP    - Ministry of Planning
M2T   - Ministry of Trade and Transportation
vpd   - vehicles per day



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY .....................i...............................   i ii
1. INTRODUCTION.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR            ..                               2
A. Economic Setting.                                          2
B. The Transport System.                                      3
C.   Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination             4
3.   HIGHWAYS                                                       5
A.  The Network............. * ...                            5
B.   Characteristics of Road Traffic and the
Road Transport Industry.                               6
C.   Administration                                           7
D.   Engineering and Construction                             7
E. Maintenance and Betterment.                                8
4.   THE PROJECT                                                    9
A. Description ..                                             9
-    Technical Assistance .....      ..............      9
-    Purchase of Highway Equipment l..........          i
-  Betterment Program.                                  12
-    Feasibility Study and Detailed
Engineering of the Rosso-Boghe Road              12
B. Cost Estimates .12
C.   Financing and Disbursements                             13
D. Execution   ..14
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .15
A. General .15
B.   Consolidation and Expansion of Highway
Maintenance .15
C. Betterment Program .16
D.   Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
of the Rosso-Boghe Road                               17
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOtMMNDATION                         18
Tlis report has been prepared by Messrs. E. Bonhomme (Engineer) and P. Gyamfi
(Economist), and updated by Messrs. E. Staffini (Engineer) and A. Byl
(Economis t).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
TABLES
1. Highway Classification and Conditions
2. Vehicle Registration, 1967-73
3.  Annual Consumption of Motor Fuel, 1968-72
4. Minimum Training Requiremen'ts
5. Hiighway Expenditures, 1968-75
6.  Highway Equipment Requirexnents
7. Projece Cost Estimates
8. Cost Estimates for Mechanic.dl Equipment and
Consulting Services
9. Financing Plan
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.  Operating Costs of Highway :Equipment
MAP
Mauritania - Third Highway ,?roject - IBRD 10995



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Mauritania covers a total land area of about one million km2, of
which about two-thirds are largely barren, arid parts of the Sahara desert,
and the remainder mostly savanna grassland. Although some 90% of the 1.2
million inhabitants are subsistence farmers and nomadic herdsmen, the coun-
try's economy is dominated by enclave mining activities. The demand for in-
ternal transport is therefore generally low. Roads are the predominant mode;
transport by railway, air, and water is specialized both with respect to traf-
fic type and location. The road network totals about 7,000 km, of which only
about 500 km are paved; the remainder are mainly earth tracks with no definite
alignment, making transport costly, arduous, and hazardous, and seasonally im-
possible on some roads. Improving these conditions progressively, as warranted
by traffic development, has been the strategy of the Government and the Bank
Group over the past several years.
ii.       The Association helped finance a (First) Highway Project (Credit
69-MAU, US$6.7 million, 1964) which included construction of the Nouakchott-
Rosso road (200 km), the most heavily trafficked in the country, and a study
of the highway maintenance organization. Since completion of the road, traf-
fic on it has developed much more rapidly than forecast at appraisal. Con-
sultants BCEOM (France) carried out the maintenance study which provided the
basis for the ongoing maintenance project, and for its continuation and exten-
sion as recommended in the proposed third project.
iii.       As mentioned, the Second Highway Project (Credit 159-MAU, US$3.0
million, 1969) was aimed at implementing the recommendations of the BCEOM
study, and provided for the purchase of equipment and provision of technical
assistance to execute a four-year highway maintenance and betterment program.
Under this project, the Equipment Division of the Directorate of Public Works
(DPW) has been reorganized, a betterment program executed through the highway
bases was initiated, and about 60% of mechanics and operators trained. The
training program could not cover all the available personnel because of dif-
ficulties encountered in finding counterparts to the consultants in the early
stages of implementation, and because of the need to provide lower-level staff
with basic reading and writing skills. It is therefore now necessary to
provide additional technical assistance for training the remaining operators
and mechanics.
iv.       Under the proposed Third Highway Project, it is planned to extend
the training facilities to include all other highway personnel. There is
also a general need to improve the present organization for planning, execut-
ing, and supervising highway operations. Highway maintenance and betterment
need to be continued and strengthened, and a year-round connection between
Nouakchott and the eastern regions ensured.



- ii -
v.        The proposed project therefore includes:  (a) technical assistance
to the Infrastructure Department of the Ministry of Equipment (ME), to the
Ministry of Planning (MP), and tc> the Transport Department of the Ministry of
Trade and Transportation (MTT); (b) purchase of highway equipment for mainten-
ance and betterment works; (c) continuation of a betterment program on about
365 km of roads; and (d) feasibility study and detailed engineering for con-
struction of the Rosso-Boghe roacd (200 km), the most heavily trafficked
unpaved road in the country.
vi.       The total capital cost of the project is estimated at about US$13.7
million equivalent, including foreign exchange costs of US$9.5 million (69%),
and US$2.4 million equivalent in taxes. The project will be financed by the
Association, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KF), by Canada
through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and the Govern-
ment, under separate agreements for each aid agency. The United Nations
Development Programne (UNDP) has indicated that it has no funds available for
participation in this project. lhe financing plan is scheduled as follows:
(i) US$3.0 million by the Association and US$3.8 million by KF to meet the
total cost (net of taxes) of tecbnical assistance, preinvestment studies, and
the betterment program; (ii) US$4.5 million by Canada to meet the entire
foreign costs of equipment procurement and related services; and (iii) US$2.4
million by the Government to cover the tax component of the project. The
Government will also allocate funds to meet the recurrent costs of road
maintenance and betterment works not included in the project. The Government
has stated that an amount of UM &0 million will be provided in its highway main-
tenance budget for 1975, and has agreed to an annual review by the Association
of its road maintenance program and budget for fiscal years 1976 through 1979.
vii.      The Ministry of Equipment will be responsible for implementing the
project, except for small items of technical assistance which will be carried
out by the Ministries of Planning and of Trade and Transportation. The project
is expected to start in 1975 and be completed by mid-1979. Consultants for
technical assistance and for the feasibility study and detailed engineering
will be selected on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Terms
of reference for all the above services have been discussed and agreed with
the Government. Signing of the consultants' contract for technical assistance
to the Infrastructure Department will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA Credit. Execution of the betterment program will be mainly by
force account, with support provided by contractors as required; a 7-1/2%
margin of preference will be granted to domestic contractors. Procedures for
equipment procurement to be financed by Canada will follow the general condi-
tions of CIDA.
viii.     In order to ensure that the interdependent aspects of the project
items are adequately taken into account, the Association has entered into an
understanding with each of the co-lenders that progress made in implementing
each part of the project will be compared, and the implementation schedule
revised if necessary. In addition, the understanding with KF for joint finan-
cing provides that the Association will act on behalf of KF with regard to
technical assistance and preinvestmnent studies, while the betterment program
will be administered and supervised by both agencies.



- iii -
ix.       The principal aim of the proposed project is to consolidate and
expand the maintenance effort started under the Second Highway Project; im-
plementation of this program will lead to a reduction in vehicle operating
costs on the network, and will also extend its seasonal use. The economic
return on the maintenance item is estimated at about 36% over the six-year
expected life of the capital investment. The betterment program will ensure
all-weather transport on two roads serving the most agriculturally produc-
tive and densely populated areas of the country. This project item yields
an economic return of about 35% on the Boghe-Kaedi-Kiffa road in the south,
and of about 16% on the Akjoujt-Atar-Choum road in the north. The preinvest-
ment studies concern improvement of the most heavily trafficked unpaved road
in the country.
x.        The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$3.0 million
to the Government of Mauritania on standard IDA terms.






MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1964, a Credit of US$6.7 million (Cr. 69-MAU) was made to the
Government of Mauritania to help finance the engineering and construction
of the Nouakchott-Rosso road (200 km). The construction work was completed
on schedule in 1969 following initial delays due mainly to the scarcity of
good road materials in the project area. Since completion of the road,
traffie has increased much more rapidly thar forecast at appraisal. The
Credit also included funds for a highway maintenance study which was under-
taken by consultants BCEOM (France), and which provided the basis for the
ongoing maintenance project (para. 1.02), and for its continuation and ex-
tension as recommended in the proposed Third Highway Project.
1.02      The second Bank Group project in the transport sector, the ongoing
Ilighway Maintenance Project (Cr. 159-MAU, US$3.0 million, 1969) focussed on
the purchase and management of maintenance equipment, and on reorganiza-
tion of the Equipment Division of the Directorate of Public Works (DPW).
Five mechanical experts from BCEOM assisted *n carrying out the reorganization,
and the Equipment Division which was previously rudimentary, now has a Central
Workshop in Nouakchott for heavy equipment repairs; minor repairs and routine
maintenance of the equipment are performed in the field with light facilities
of the highway bases and the subdivisions. The BCEOM experts also helped
implement a training program for operators and 'mechanics, but its execution
was delayed in the early stages by the need to provide lower-level staff
with basic skills in reading and writing, as well as by the difficulties en-
countered in finding middle- and higher-level local personnel to be counter-
parts to the consultants. As a result, only about 60% of this staff were
trained, and it is therefore now necessary to continue the program for the
remaining operators and mechanics, and to extend the training facilities to
other highway personnel. During the proposed project, work started under
the second project will be continued and strengthened, and new efforts will
be directed to DPW's Highways Division and the local subdivisions to improve
present methods of planning, executing, and supervising highway operations.
Also, efforts will be directed to continuing and strengthening highway main-
tenance, and to creating a year-round connection between Nouakchott and the
eastern region of the country.
1.03      The proposed Third Highway Project therefore includes:  (a) technical
assistance to the Infrastructure Department of the Ministry of Equipment (ME),
to the Ministry of Planning (MP) and to the Transport Department of the
Ministry of Trade and Transportation (MTT); (b) purchase of highway equipment
for maintenance and betterment works; (c) continuation of a betterment program
on about 365 km of roads; and (d) feasibility study and detailed engineering
for construction of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km). The total capital cost of
the project is estimated at about US$13.7 million equivalent, including for-
eign exchange costs of US$9.5 million, and US$2.4 million equivalent in
taxes. T?he project will be financed by the Association, the Kuwait Fund for



- 2 -
Arab Economic Development (KF), by Canada through the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), and the Government, under separate agreements for
each aid agency. UNDP has indicated that it has no funds available for
participation in this project. The financing plan is scheduled as follows:
(i) US$3.0 million by the Association and US$3.8 million by KF to meet the
total cost (net of taxes) of technical assistance, preinvestment studies, and
the betterment program; (ii) US$4.5 million by Canada to meet the foreign
costs of equipment procurement and related services; and (iii) US$2.4 million
by the Government to cover the tax component of the project.
1.04      This report is based on information supplied by ME, as well as on
the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. E. Bonhomme (Engineer)
and P. Gyamfi and T. Lott (Economists) which visited Mauritania in September
1973, and a follow-up mission by Messrs. Bonhomme and Gyamfi in December 1973.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Mauritania covers a total land area of about one million km , of
which about two-thirds are largely barren, arid parts of the Sahara desert,
and the remainder mostly savanna grassland.  The population of about 1.2
million, which has grown at 2% p.a. over the past decade, is concentrated
around Nouadhibou and Nouakchott, and along the Senegal river in the south.
Because of the combined effects of low population density, long distances
between towns and settlements, harsh climatic conditions, and poor road-
making soils, the provision and maintenance of transport infrastructure is
expensive and technically difficult, and the operation of vehicles is costly,
arduous, and often hazardous.
2.02      About 90% of the active population are subsistence farmers and
nomadic herdsmen, yet agriculture, livestock-raising, and other traditional
activities generated in 1972 only about 31% of the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). This traditional sector grew at about 4% p.a. between 1960-68, but
production fell between 1969-72 due to severe drought conditions. Tne corres-
ponding annual increases in mining activities (generating about 36% of GDP)
during the periods abovementioned were 19% and 6%. Per capita GDP increased
from US$110 in 1962 to US$170 in 1972. However, individual incomes of most
of the population have probably not increased over the decade, as growth was
limited to the modern sector, which employs only about 10% of the active
population, and whose activities are located 600 - 700 km from the center of
the agricultural zone.



-3-
B.   The Transport System
2.03      Transport infrastructure consists essentially of about 7,000 km of
roads (mainly earth tracks), about 740 km of privately-owned railways serving
the mining sector, a deep-water port and a wharf, two international airports,
and about 19 airstrips for domestic services; in addition, the Senegal River
provides for almost half the year about 600 km of navigable waterway between
Rosso and Gourai (Bakel) (see Map IBRD 10995). The system is generally ade-
quate to serve the needs of external transport. For internal services, roads
presently constitute practically the only mode; river transport was once sig-
nificant, but has now dwindled to a few small itinerant craft which provide
infrequent services (para. 2.07); internal air transport has proved essential
in helping alleviate the effects of the recent drought, but is at present too
costly to attract significant and continuous demand.
Ilighways
2.04      Details on the highway system and its administration, as well as
the characteristics of the road transport industry, are provided in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.05      The only railway in the country is owned and operated by Mines de
Fer de Mauritanie (MIFERMA), the iron-ore min4ng company located in the north.
Although traffic is largely confined to shipments of ore from deposits near
Zouerate to the port of Nouadhibou (amounting in 1972 to about 8.4 million
tons), small amounts of general merchandise (about 7,000 tons in 1972) and
limited passenger service, are carried on the back-haul. In order to allow
development of this general traffic, and to ensure better connections between
Nouadhibou and the rest of the country, the proposed project provides for
improvement of the road linking the railway stop at Chounm with Atar, the
trade center cf the northwest.
Ports and Waterways
2.06      Seaport facilities comprise the deep-water port at Nouadhibou and
the 350 m wharf at Nouakchott. The Nouadhibou port is effectively two special-
ized facilities: a bulk cargo port for MIFERMA's ore traffic, and a general
cargo and fishing port. The Association is currently appraising a project
for extension of the latter facility. The wharf at Nouakchott handled about
153,000 tons of cargo in 1973, only about two-thirds its capacity. Over the
past five years, wharf traffic has increased at more than 25% p.a., but this
was mainly due to a shift of imports to Nouakchott from the port of Dakar
(Senegal).  This shift is now almost complete, and traffic is expected to
grow at a maximum of 9% p.a. over the next decade.
2.07      Transport on the Senegal River was once an important mode for the
agriculturally productive southern region, with about five power crafts and
several barges owned and operated by a Senegalese firm, but there are now only



- 4 -
infrequent services by a few small boats. At the time when operations were
efficient, river transport was a useful complement to road transport along
the Rosso-Boghe-Kaedi corridor, and if revived, could still play an impor-
tant role for carrying bulk low-cost commodities. This possibility is being
studied by the Senegal River Basin Commission 1/ in the context of an overall
strategy to harness the Senegal River and develop its valley.
Airways
2.08      The air service networl. is sufficiently well developed to help over-
come the long distances over largely inhospitable regions, and to compensate
for the lack of surface transporl; capacity, especially to remote and seasonally
isolated areas. There are two international airports, at Nouadhibou and
Nouakchott, but only the former can handle long-range jet aircraft. There
are also 19 airstrips for domestic services which can accommodate DC-3 and
DC-4 type equipment. In spite of this internal air transport capacity, how-
ever, passenger demand has been :imited, principally because the cost of air
fares still remains far beyond the means of the average local traveller. For
transport to remote areas, howevtr, it is not inconceivable that on a total-
cost basis (i.e. infrastructure and operating costs), air transport for pas-
sengers and perishable goods, in combination with the use of off-road vehicles
for other goods, could be an economically cheaper alternative to the more con-
ventional road transport used under prevailing conditions.
C.   Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
2.09      Transport policy has in recent years been characterized by the
following features:
(a)  a shift in the orienta -ion of external transport for goods
and passengers from the port of Dakar in Senegal to the
Mauritanian ports;
(b) use of transport as an integral part of a strategy to achieve
national unity, and to reduce the wide discrepancies in
living standards in diUferent areas of the country with the
Government absorbing part of the transport costs to the
consumer of certain essential commodities; and
(c) efforts to establish a reliable transport system necessary
to develop the more poiulated and agriculturally productive
regions in the south aïnd southeast.
These objectives are generally sound, although in selecting individual
projects, more emphasis could have been given to economic priorities.
2.10      In order to provide tha Government with the possibility to build up
its transport planning capacity, the proposed project includes the provision
of services of a transport planner/economist to help identify priorities in
the sector, and to study appropriate modes for domestic services (para. 4.04).
1/   Organisation pour la Mise ei Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS).



- 5 -
2.11      The Government currently assigns priority to construction of a
deep-water port and a new international airport at Nouakchott, and of a
two-lane paved highway directly linking Nouakchott with Nema via Boutilimit
and Aleg, as well as betterment of the Rosso-Boghe-Kaedi road along the
Senegal river. The Association has informed the Government that it considers
the scope of the planned port and airport projects premature. The Govern-
ment's attention has also been drawn to the fact that construction of the
1,100 km link Nouakchott-Nema (which between Nouakchott and Aleg would cross
practically uninhabited desert) would cost about US$100 million, and that
maintenance of this road would require almost a doubling of ME's present
expenditures for recurrent maintenance (para. 3.13). Further, the Associa-
tion has informed the Government that it considers improvement of the exist-
ing road links between Rosso, Boghe, and Kaedi as the more economical method
of linking Nouakchott to the southern and eastern regions, and this work
will be initiated under the proposed project (paras. 4.09 and 4.10).
2.12      Issues of transport coordination, both in the sense of competition
between modes and the extent to which they complement each other, exist only
in the Rosso-Boghe-Kaedi corridor (about 300 km) where both road and water
transport have seasonal advantages over each other. Road transport is prac-
tically the only mode during the dry season (December to June/July), with
only very little competition from small boats of up to 1 m draught. The
road is partly flooded the rest of the year, and at that time, transport in
the corridor is accomplished by boats of up to 2.5 m draught. In the past,
this arrangement had generally served transport needs along the corridor;
however, planned large-scale agricultural developments will call for im-
proved facilities in the near future. The exact transport improvements
to be made, especially on the Rosso-Boghe stretch, have not yet been deter-
mined, since implementing the agricultural projects will involve harnessing
the Senegal River, and that undertaking may have quite serious effects on
existing transport arteries. The feasibility study of the Rosso-Boghe road
to be carried out under the proposed project (para. 4.11), will have to take
into account potential improvements in river regulations, as well as the
implementation of agricultural projects.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The road network totals some 7,000 km, of which only about 500 km
are paved and another 1,060 km are all-weather laterite roads; the remainder
are earth and sand tracks (Table 1). The trunk system comprises three prin-
cipal axes: a northern axis stretching about 1,850 km from Rosso in the
Senegal Valley to Atar and the Algerian border in the north, an east-west
axis from Rosso to Nema, and a central axis Boghe-Aleg-Tidjikja (see Map).
Except for the first axis and some sections of the second, the roads have no
definite aligwients, as vehicles drive cross-country choosing their own paths.



6-
3.02      Although the density of the network follows quite well the pattern
of population distribution and of economic activity, access to most areas of
the country is limited to little more than half of the year.  Sandstorms in
the north and floods during the wet season in the south cause frequent traffic
interruptions which, because of poor maintenance organization, are unneces-
sarily prolonged.
B.   Characteristics of Road Traf:lic and the Road Transport Industry
3.03      The traditional sector of the economy is still at the subsistence
level, and therefore does not generate much traffic. Most passenger traffic
occurs in the modern sector, and :Ls largely restricted to the Rosso-Nouakchott-
Akjoujt road. Goods traffic, except that generated by the mining industry,
consists almost entirely of impori-s (basic foodstuffs and petroleum products),
most of which enter through Nouakchott or Rosso. Until the results of up-
coming agricultural programs starn being felt, movement of agricultural produce
and local goods will continue to represent only about 10% of total traffic.
3.04      Traffic counts in 1972 on the principal axes indicate that the paved
road Rosso-Nouakchott-Akjoujt carries some 470 vpd, and the Rosso-Nema road
about 50 vpd. Although data on growth in total road traffic are not availa-
ble, the growth since 1968 of the vehicle fleet (7% p.a.) and of fuel consump-
tion (about 10% p.a. for gasoline and 22% p.a. for diesel oil, excluding
MIFERMA share), indicate that traffic has increased more rapidly than the
3% p.a. projected during preparat:.on of the last highway project (Tables 2
and 3).
3.05      There are at present no specific restrictions either on vehicle
imports or on the entry by Mauritainians into the public transport business.
The Government, through its Depar:ment of Transport and in collaboration with
truckers' representatives, sets inaximum prices chargeable for different routes.
Until 1968, the National Transport Office (ONTP), a Governnental agency, was
directly responsible for organizinig and regulating road transport. Following
its abolition, operators regroupeci to form the Syndicat des Transporteurs wh±ch
now performs these functions, except the setting of maximum prices which is
still done by the Government. Tht, Syndicat is expected to provide the necessary
support to individual truckers in organizing their business by making cash
advances for purchases of fuel an(c spare parts, and by negotiating transport
prices with shippers, including tlhe Government, on their behalf. In assessing
the Syndicat's role, due recognit.on should be accorded to the quasi-public
utility role of road transport in Mauritania, and the extremely difficult
physical, climatic, and roadway conditions under which the industry has to
operate. The Syndicat ensures thai,t each route, irrespective of its condition,
is adequately served at transport prices which, while guaranteeing some profit
to the truckers, do not lead to a waste cf resources.
3.06      The problem with the Syxidicat is lack of efficient management and of
technical and administrative expertise to perform its functions well.  Ideally,
technical support should be provicLed by MTT's Department of Transport, but
even tiiough it has some good staff, they are completely occupied with vehicle
registration and operator licensivg. To complement this staff, a transport



-7-
expert will be attached to the Department of Transport under the proposed
project; the expert will provide technical support to the Syndicat in
Nouakchott and Rosso by assisting truckers with management and accounting
(para. 4.04).
C.   Administration
3.07      The Infrastructure Department of ME is responsible for the road
network; its jurisdiction also covers civil works of ports, airports, and
Government buildings. The Department carries out its road functions through:
-    two central divisions -- Equipment Division, Road and Airport
Division -- located at Headquarters (Nouakchott);
-    nine field subdivisions, corresponding to the nine administra-
tive regions, to carry out routine maintenance;
-    four highway bases, of which one is located at Nouakchott for
maintaining the main paved road, and the three others presently
assigned to regions (North, Center, and East) for performing
betterment works.
3.08      The most significant feature of the present organization is the
shortage of well-qualified local personnel at high- and middle-level posi-
tions.  There are at present five technical assistants in the Department who
should ultimately be replaced by nationals. Several of the chiefs of sub-
divisions and highway bases, and some local technicians, have little or no
experience in highway operations, and need continuous professional guidance.
To help alleviate these shortcomings, the proposed project provides training
opportunities both locally and abroad for this and the counterpart personnel
(para. 4.03).
3.09      At the level of skilled workers, the Second Highway Project provided
vocational courses and field training for operators and mechanics, but the
program was slowed down by the need to first provide reading and writing
courses to almost all the trainees. Consequently, only about 60% of the
operators and mechanics were trained under that project. The program will
therefore be continued under the proposed project, and extended to cover all
categories of highway personnel, including foremen and supervisors (para.
4.03 and Table 4). A more comprehensive and longer-term approach will be
provided by the recently approved education project (Credit 459-MAU, US$3.8
million, 1974) under which existing technical colleges will be upgraded and
developed. This will help meet the overall requirements for technicians in
both the public and private sectors, thereby reducing the risk of departures
of trained highway personnel from the Ministry.
D.   Engineering and Construction
3.10      The engineering and supervision of major highway construction works
are carried out by consultants and reviewed by the Road and Airport Division.



- 8 -
Designs for minor works are prepered directly by this Division. Local engineer-
ing capacity has improved with tte recent creation of the state-owned Soil
Test Laboratory financed by FAC and presently staffed with engineers and
technicians from the French Centre d'Etudes du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
(CEBTP). This laboratory will assist the highway services in carrying out
specific geotechnical surveys or general research of selected road materials.
3.11      Major highway construction works, financed by foreign aid, are
executed by contract awarded after competitive bidding. Minor construction
works are executed by force accotnt. Most of the foreign contractors who
had established local subsidiaries have recently left the country, due to
a drop in construction activities. There are six domestic contracting firms
engaged mainly in building construction. For the first time, one of these
has recently entered into a joint venture with a French firm to build the
runway of the new Kaedi Airport, and will thereby gain experience in the
execution of civil works. Some of the local contractors are presently able
to perform some categories of highway construction works such as building
small bridges or other river-crossing structures, and preparing and hauling
lateritic materials.
E.   Maintenance and Betterment
3.12      A first step in improving highway operations has been achieved with
implementation of the Second Highway Project, and with substantial increases
in the highway recurrent budget allocated to the Infrastructure Department.
Normal highway maintenance is however limited, because of the generally poor
condition of the network. The only road regularly maintained is the paved
road Rosso-Nouakchott-Akjoujt (460 km) where routine operations are carried
out by the highway base of Nouakchott, and major pavement repairs by con-
tractors. The rest of the network will have to be improved before such
regular maintenance can be useful, and this is the aim of the betterment
works being performed by the three other highway bases on the roads Akjoujt-
Atar in the north, Aleg-Moudjeria-Kiffa/Tidjikja in the center, and Kaedi-
Kiffa in the south.  These operations include earthworks on selected align-
ments, construction of surface course in lateritic materials, and spot up-
gradings. Their execution, howevar, although of first priority, is currently
hampered by occasional use of the equipment of the three bases to carry out
occasional maintenance operations on road sections already improved. The
proposed equipping of the field subdivisions to carry out maintenance opera-
tions will improve this situation (paras. 4.05-4.06).
3.13      In accordance with its commitments under the Second lHighway Project,
the Governnent has regularly increased the highway recurrent budget covering
both maintenance and betterment wDrks. Table 5 indicates the increases in
this budget since 1968, as well as the amounts expended annually on construc-
tion. In 1913, the maintenance aLlocations amounted, as scheduled, to about
60 million UM (US$1.2 million equLvalent), of which 60% was allocated to the
Equipment Division and the highway bases, 18% to general lleadquarters expendi-
tures, and 22% to the field subdivisions; salaries accounted for about half
of the allocations. Although twice the 1969 budget, however, the amounts
were still insufficient to include provisions for equipment renewal, and to
keep pace with price escalation. In particular, the Division had difficulties
in procuring the spare parts necessary for equipment repairs, since their



-9-
costs increased by about 50% since 1969. In order to update the total budget
and its distribution among the highway units, the Government has stated that
an amount of UM 80 million would be provided in the highway maintenance budget
for 1975, the first year of project implementation. The Government has also
agreed on: (i) furnishing to the Association for its review, before September
15 of each preceding year, proposed highway maintenance programs and budgets
for 1976 through 1979; and (ii) in order to ensure that adequate maintenance
funds will be available at all times in the future, even when major new road
construction commitments are made, reviewing with the Association whenever
such a commitment is made the future maintenance budget needs which will re-
sult from that commitment (para. 4.17). These budgets and forecasts of fu-
ture budgets should be prepared in collaboration with the technical assist-
ance experts in light of new developments in prices and in maintenance re-
quirements (para. 4.02).
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project, as a follow-up to the ongoing operation,
consists of:
(i)  technical assistance to the Infrabtructure Department of the
Ministry of Equipment, to the Ministry of Planning, and to
the Transport Department of the Ministry of Trade and
Transportation;
<ii) purchase of highway equipment for maintenance and betterment
works;
(iii) continuation of a betterment program on about 365 km of roads;
and
(iv)  feasibility study and detailed engineering for construction
of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km).
Technical Assistance
4.02      This item is mainly aimed at extending the technical assistance to
the Infrastructure Department being provided under the ongoing Second Highway
Project. The extension is required to supplement the present shortage of
qualified highway personnel, and to allow continuation of the ongoing train-
ing program. Discussions held during project appraisal indicated that the
assistance should cover about 300 man-months over the next four years. The
technical assistance team now proposed will comprise:
-    five mechanical experts (two workshop mechanics, two equipment
inspectors, and one training expert) who will be assigned to the
Equipment Division to: (i) control the use of highway equipment
and repair operations both in workshops and in the field; (ii)
train operators and mechanics; and (iii) prepare maintenance and
repair manuals for highway equipment.



- 10 -
three highway experts (one engineer and two technicians) who
will be assigned to the Road and Airport Division to help:
(i) reorganize the field subdivisions, train their personnel,
and prçgram and supervise their activities; (ii) determine
requirements of the highway recurrent budget; (iii) prepare
the necessary engineering for the betterment program and
supervise the work done by the highway bases; and (iv) imple-
ment adequate accountirng procedures to monitor the highway
operations.
-    a senior expert specialized in training on a short-term
assignment of about 3-4. months.
4.03       Training of highway personnel will be a continuation of the earlier
program for operators and mechanics, and will also extend to other staff such
as foremen, supervisors, etc. Table 4 details the number and categories of
personnel expected to be trained under the proposed project; however, the
actual number will be determined by the senior training expert, taking into
consideration the country's general employment situation for each staff
category, and the possible future transfer of specialized personnel to the
private sector. Refresher courses on highway administration and techniques
will be organized for the engineers and technicians heading the various
sections of the Infrastructure Department. These latter personnel, however,
will be trained mostly through their participation in project implementation
as counterparts to the experts, and through fellowships for studying abroad
or participation over 3-6 month periods in the functioning of highway depart-
ments in other West African countries. A provision has been made under the
proposed project to finance these fellowships and purchase suitable didactic
material. As there is no office space available on ME's premises for the
technical assistance experts and their counterparts, provision has also been
made for expansion of the Ministzy's offices, and for necessary furniture and
equipment. During the first four months of the technical assistance contract,
the senior expert will work out a detailed training program covering all cate-
gories of highway personnel, and specifying target dates; this program will
be sent to the Association for review and approval prior to its implementation.
The Governnent has agreed that it will select the most promising engineers and
technicians in ME, and will assign them as counterparts to each of the eight
mechanical and highway experts; also, that it will select from among the
counterparts or other staff, after consultation with the Association, those to
whom fellowships should be awarded.
4.04       In addition to the above technical assistance, the project provides
for the services of two other experts:  (i) a transport planner/economist to
be attached to MP for a period of two years to assist in identifying
and analyzing transport investmen.ts, and to study appropriate modes for
domestic services; and (ii) a transport expert with good experience in the
trucking industry, also for a twc-year period, to help the Transport Depart-
ment of MTT assist truckers with management and accounting.



- 11 -
Purchase of Highway Equipment
4.05      As part of their road maintenance study carried out in 1967/68,
consultants BCEOM made proposals for increasing ME's highway equipment pool,
renewing some items, and repairing the remainder. The new equipment purchased
under the Second Highway Project following these proposals, has been allocated
to the highway bases and the central workshop. The remaining items were
assigned to the local subdivisions, but were too old to permit execution of
the planned mechanical repairs; much of this equipment is no longer service-
able. An updated inventory of the pool has been prepared with the Infrastruc-
ture Department and BCEOM. Table 6 gives a summary of this inventory, and
indicates the equipment required for the field subdivisions and the highway
bases, as well as the items to be purchased under the project in 1975 and
1976.
4.06      For seven of the nine field subdivisions, the project will provide
the minimum equipment required to progressively build up normal highway main-
tenance capacity. In the case of the two other subdivisions, Nouakchott is
already equipped with a highway base, and Nouadhibou has too small a network
(about 90 km) to warrant a special equipment provision. The equipment pro-
posed will comprise motorgraders and farm-type tractors for grading and re-
shaping road surfaces, mechanical road brooms, tank trucks for fuel distribu-
tion, and general purpose vehicles. The equiximent will be used for light
maintenance operations, and also for emergency works such as sand removal,
provision of temporary detours, and restoration of traffic on damaged road
sections, thus extending the periods during which the network can be used.
4.07      For the highway bases, the project will provide items to complete
the existing equipment fleet and renew part of it. The additional items
envisaged are two automotive compactors which will help increase the output
of the two highway bases in executing the betterment program; tank trucks to
secure fuel supply; a crane truck; and a low-bed trailer for quick dispatch
of heavy equipment. Renewal requirements are limited to some dump trucks and
general purpose vehicles.
4.08      In order to save time in equipment delivery, Canada has agreed to
appoint a consulting firm specialized in mechanical equipment to be in charge
of equipment procurement, shipment, delivery, and assenbly.  The same firm
will send to Mauritania one or two technicians for the equipment delivery
period, and for the additional time required to help local staff become
familiar with the new types of Canadian equipment; these services will be
supplied as a grant.
Betterment Program
4.09      This project item will continue the betterment works initiated under
the Second Highway Project and carried out by the highway bases. The road
sections selected in agreement with ME total about 365 km and comprise:
(i) the road Atar-Choum (125 km); (ii) a 40 km section of the road Akjoujt-
Atar; (iii) the road Boghe-Kaedi (100 km); and (iv) two sections of the road
Kaedi-Kiffa (totalling 100 km).



- 12 -
4.10      These sections are now mere earth tracks without definite alignments,
and traffic on them is periodically interrupted. The works proposed include
earthworks on new alignments to avoid sandy or flooded areas, and construction
of surface courses and of drainage and light river-crossing structures (con-
crete causeways).
Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering of the Rosso-Boghe Road (200 km)
4.11      This is the most heavily trafficked of the unpaved roads.  It crosses
the flooded area along the Senegal River, and is closed to traffic for almost
six months of the year. Economic and engineering investigations are required
to determine the appropriate construction standards, and to select definite
alignments, the types of river-crossing structures, and the road materials
to be adopted. These studies will be carried out under the project in two
phases. (i) feasibility study, and (il) detailed engineering, if justified.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.12      The total capital cost of the project is estimated at US$13.
million equivalent, of which US$9.5 million are foreign costs and US$4.2
million equivalent local costs, including US$2.4 million in taxes. Details
of project costs are given in Tables 7 and 8 and summarized below:
(UM millions)        (US$ '000 Equivalent)   Foreign
Local  Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Component
A. Technical Assistance  21.5    85.5  107.0         430    1,710  2,140        80
B. Preinvestment Studies  7.0    28.5   35.5         140       570    710       80
C. Betterment Program   121.0    80.5  201.5   2,420    1,610  4,030            40
D. Equipment
Procurement /1         -      174.8  174.8       -      3,495  3,495 /1  100
E. Contingencies:
- Quantities (10% on
items C and D)       12.0    25.5   37.5       240       510    750        68
- Prices (about 20%
of total A-D) /2   47.0    80.2  127.2        940    1,605  2,545        63
TOTAL           208.5   475.0  683.5   4,170    9,500 13,670          69
(rounded)                                4,200    9,500 13,700        69
/1   Including a grant of about US$300,000 equivalent (UM 15 million) for con-
sulting services (para. 4.08).
/2   Details in para. 4.14.



- 13 -
4.13      The above cost estimates, which reflect prices at end-1974, have been
determined as follows:
(a) for technical assistance and preinvestment studies, recent
Bank Group-financed contracts;
(b) for the betterment program, preliminary survey of the road
sections to be improved, and expected operating costs of the
highway bases; and
(c) for equipment procurement, CIDA estimates.
The operating costs of the highway bases have been determined from indications
given by ME, and supported by statistical data compiled in other West African
countries on the use of various types of highway equipment. Considering an
annual output of 50 km per year for each of the two highway bases, the unit
cost of the betterment works (including drainage and river-crossing structures)
amounts to US$11,000 per km, without provision for equipment renewal.
4.14      A physical contigency of about 10% has been added to the cost of the
betterment program and the equipment procurement items. Price contingencies
for technical assistance, studies, and the betterment program, have been cal-
culated in accordance with the most recent Bank Group guidelines, and take
account of the following inflation rates: for 1975, 11% on goods and services
and 15% on civil works; for 1976-79, 7.5% on goods and services and 12% on
civil works. For equipment procurement, CIDA has considered 17% for price
escalation over one year. Expected dates of project completion are mid-1976 for
equipment purchase and preinvestment studies, and mid-1979 for technical
assistance and the betterment program.
C. Financing and Disbursements
4.15      The project will be financed by the Association, the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (KF), by Canada through the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), and the Government, under separate agreements for each
aid agency. The following financing arrangements have been agreed:
(a) the Association and KF will jointly finance the total costs
(net of taxes) of technical assistance, preinvestment
studies, and the betterment program;
(b) Canada will finance 100% of foreign costs for equipment
procurement and related services; and
(c) the Government will finance the tax component of the
project.
Table 9 gives details of the financing plan. Table 10 shows the estimated
schedule of disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit of US$3.0 million
equivalent.



- 14 -
4.16      In order to ensure that the interdependent aspects of the project
items are adequately taken into eLccount by the co-lenders, the Association
has entered into an understandin; with each of the other lenders according to
which the co-lenders agree to comlpare progress made in implementation of each
part of the project, and to revise the implementation schedule if necessary so
as to maximize the benefits to be derived from each of these parts. In parti-
cular, the understanding for joint financing reached between the Association
and KF provides, inter alia, that: (i) each agency will keep the other fully
informed of planned supervision mLissions in order to allow its participation
if desired, and they will exchange views and information on the results of
such visits; (ii) the Associatior. will act on behalf of KF regarding implemen-
tation of technical assistance and preinvestment studies; and (iii) the
betterment program will be adminlstered and supervised by both the Association
and KF. The Association will review on KF's behalf withdrawal applications
for disbursements against expenditures for technical assistance and preinvest-
ment studies; withdrawal applications for the betterment program, accompanied
by supporting evidence, will have to be reviewed and approved by both agencies.
4.17      In addition to providirg the tax component of the project, the
Government will allocate funds tc meet the recurrent costs of road maintenance
and betterment works not included in the project.  These annual allocations
would cover operations carried out by the field subdivisions, and by the two
highway bases of Nouakchott and the Center Region which will not be involved
in execution of the betterment program. The Government has stated that its
road maintenance allocation for 1975 would be UM 80 million, which is suffi-
cient for the purposes above-mentioned, and for other road-related activities
of the Infrastructure Department. The Government has agreed that, for the
following four years, the necessary allocations will be determined on the basis
of maintenance requirements estimated by the technical assistance experts and
reviewed with the Association (para. 3.13).
D. Execution
4.18      The Ministry of Equipment will be responsible for implementing
those parts of the project concerning highway development; the Ministries
of Planning and of Trade and Transportation will be responsible for the
technical assistance to their respective Ministries. Consultants for
technical assistance and for preinvestment studies will be selected on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; terms of reference for
these services have been discussed and agreed. Signing of the consultants'
contract for technical assistance to the Infrastructure Department will be
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit.
4.19      All roadworks for the betterment program will be done by the
highway bases of the North and East regions. Drainage works and river-
crossing structures will be executed by contracts awarded to prequalified
firms following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines; a preference margin of 7-1/2% will be granted to domestic
contractors. For contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent each, but up



- 15 -
to an aggregate of not more than US$500,000 equivalent, awards will be made
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Association. However, if no reasonable
bids can be secured for some of these works, the Government and the Associa-
tion may agree that they be executed by force account. The technical assist-
ance team will prepare the necessary engineering and supervise execution of
the betterment works. Procurement of equipment to be financed by Canada will
follow the general conditions of CIDA.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Transport to all but a few places in Mauritania is costly, arduous,
and hazardous; for instance, freight transport between Nouakchott and
Nema, (via the 1,400 km southern route), takes nine days at a cost of about
5 Ougiya (USg10) per ton-km. Moreover, the poor state of the road network
miakes year-round transport impossible except on the 500 km of paved roads.
Nevertheless, because transport demand on the network is low, major extensive
upgrading of the system is clearly unjustifiable. The most appropriate
strategy to ensure improved access and reduced transport costs would be to do
some upgrading on road sections serving important traffic, and to carry out
timely spot improvements and effective maintenance on sections where demand
remains low. The proposed project is in line with this strategy.
5.02      The principal aims of the project are to consolidate and expand the
maintenance efforts started under the Second Highway Project, and to improve
the main road in the south, as well as a road in the north, to support the
development of economic activity (including agricultural projects under the
Golgol scheme) in the heavily populated region between Rosso and Kiffa (see
Map). Road betterment works under the project are expected to extend the
seasonal use of the most important unpaved roads in the country, to reduce
transport costs on these roads throughout the year, and to ensure greater
transport reliability even during the wet season. Benefits from the project
will accrue almost entirely to the traditional sector of the economy where,
together with agricultural projects either underway or planned, it will stimu-
late economic growth.
B.   Consolidation and Expansion of Highway Maintenance
5.03      The equipment and technical services included in the project will
be used to consolidate the reorganization of maintenance and training of
mechanics which was initiated under the Second Highway Project. More impor-
tantly, provision of these services will extend the scope of training of
DPW staff to the actual execution of road maintenance. Besides the institu-
tion-building benefit which will arise from the technical services, the
execution of maintenance will lead to: (i) reduction in vehicle operating
costs, and (ii) an increase in the seasonal use of roads. The benefits



- 16 -
associated with (ii) have been estimated as equivalent to 1.25 times those
from (i) on the basis of actual increases in transport charges during periods
of poor roadway conditions; thesE' benefits would begin to accrue in the first
year of the program, and would inLcrease steadily thereafter. The combined
average reduction in vehicle operating costs is therefore estimated at about
1.5 Ougiya (USd3) per km for cars, 2.5 times that amount for light trucks, and
four times for heavy trucks.  The economic life of the maintenance program,
based mainly on the equipment comtponent, has been assured to be six years; a
longer life is normally assumed for similar projects in other West African
countries, but experience from the ongoing project demonstrates the case for
using a shorter life, due to harsh climatic conditions in the country.
5.04      Traffic levels have been assuned at the equivalent of 28 passenger-
car units 1/ on the 2,600 km of roads to be maintained during the first year
of the project, about 23 on the 3,500 to be maintained during the second
year, and about 19 on the total network of 4,380 km expected to be maintained
thereafter (1977-80). Traffic growth on this network is estimated at about
4.5% p.a. over the life of the maintenance component of the project. Taking
into account all maintenance costs (including technical assistance) and the
above benefit inputs, this project item will yield a Benefit/Cost (B/C) ratio,
at a discount rate of 10%, of 1.09, and an economic return of about 36% over
the six-year expected life of the capital investment.
5.05      In the absence of a detailed study, inputs of present and future
road traffic, vehicle operating cDsts, and road maintenance costs used in
the foregoing evaluation have been based principally on the mission's
findings, and on the Bank Group's experience for similar projects in other
Sahelian countries. The estimates are rather conservative and provide a
good indication of the expected minimum returns.
C.   Betterment Program
5.06      The road betterment worlcs included in the project are confined to
sections of the Boghe-Kaedi-Kiffa road in the south, and the Akjoujt-Atar-
(ihoum road in the north. The forimer road is a section of one of the most
important transport links in the country. It constitutes the life-line for
over 70% of the population, and serves the area considered most critical for
long-term economic viability. In spite of this importance, however, the road
is in poor condition even during the dry season, and during the wet season,
is flooded and virtually impassab:Le. River transport is the substitute mode
used during this latter period, but service is slow and unreliable, and
because of the excessive handling and storage costs involved, transport is
no cheaper than by road, especial]y if it were improved.
i/   One heavy truck accounts for 4 passenger-car units, and one light truck
for 2.5 passenger-car units.



- 17 -
5.07      The project works on the Boghe-Kaedi-Kiffa road will substantially
improve the characteristics of the road, particularly with respect to laterite
surfacing and passage over water courses during the wet season. Direct
benefits from road improvements result from reduction in vehicle operating
costs. In quantifying these benefits, consideration has been given to the
benefits associated with a substantial increase in the use of 12-ton trucks
in place of the 5-ton type following road improvement, as evidenced by the
evolution of the vehicle fleet in recent years. Base year 1975 traffic has
been assumed at 75 vpd, comprising one-third each of heavy trucks, light
trucks, and passenger cars. Traffic growth is estimated to be 10% p.a. during
the first five years after completion of the works, and 5% p.a. thereafter.
On the basis of an eight-year economic life for the road improvements, the
investments yield an economic return of about 35% and a B/C ratio, at 10%
discount rate, of 1.68. Additional benefits will be achieved from the induced
agricultural and livestock production resulting from these improvements, but
they have not been quantified.
5.08      The Akjoujt-Atar-Choum road is part of the link from Nouakchott,
the administrative capital and an export/import outlet, through Atar, the
most important trade center in the northwest, the Choum, a town located on
the MIFERMA railway (see Map). About 75% of the works envisaged are to
connect Atar and its environs with the railroad, and consequently with the
mining and industrial centers of the economy. In addition to the socio-
economic impact which will be generated by the improved link between Atar's
traditional sector and the modern sectors, road improvements will result in
a reduction of vehicle operating costs. Present traffie on the road totals
about 50 vpd (assumed to increase at 10% p.a.), of which some 90% are trucks
carrying a mix of passengers and goods to and from the railway. On the basis
of vehicle operating cost savings alone, the improvements are expected to
yield an economic return of about 16% and a B/C ratio of 1.15 over their eight-
year expected life.
5.09      The proposed project includes purchase of equipment required to
complete the fleets of the four highway bases.  Two of these bases will be
operating on the roads selected for betterment works under the proposed project.
Equipment renewal for these two bases only has been taken into account in
calculating the rate of return of the betterment program. Similar economic
returns should be possible from operation of equipment to be purchased for the
other two bases, as the technical assistance experts provided under the proj-
ect will help the Government with the selection of other road sections to be
bettered and maintained. However, since these sections will be less homo-
geneous than the two proposed for works under the project, no attempt has
been made to demonstrate their rate of return.
D.   Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering of the Rosso-Boghe Road (200 km)
5.10      This road is an important connection between Nouakchott and the
center of ongoing and planned agricultural and livestock developments; it
is part of the life-line for about 70% of the population, and is the most
heavily trafficked (about 110 vpd) of the unpaved roads in the country.
Construction of the road, together with the betterment works proposed on
the Boghe-Kaedi-Kiffa road, will ensure year-round (instead of the present



- 18 -
half-year) access to the eastern region. Bank Group experience with similar
types of roads in West Africa indicate that it is economically feasible to
upgrade them to a reasonable desLgn standard, and studies to determine this
will be carried out under the proposed project.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During Credit negotiations with the Government, the following
principal items were discussed a-d agreed:
(i)  an amount of UM 80 million has been included in the Goverrunent
budget for road maintenance activities in 1975; proposed highway
maintenance programs ai-d budgets for 1976 through 1979 will be
furnished to the Association for its review before September 15
of each preceding year. The Government has also agreed that,
whenever a commitment is made to construct a major new road,
it will review with the Association the impact of such con-
struction commitments in future maintenance budgets (paras. 3.13
and 4.17);
(ii)  consultants for technical assistance and preinvestment studies
will be selected on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; terms of reference for these services have been
agreed (para. 4.18); aid
(iii)  a 7-1/2% preference margin will be granted to domestic contractors
for execution of selected works under the betterment program
(para. 4.19).
6.02      In order to ensure that the interdependent aspects of the project
are adequately taken into account by the co-lenders, the Association has entered
into an understanding with each if the other lenders that they will compare
progress made in limplementation of each part of the project, and will revise
the implementation schedule if necessary, to maximize the benefits to be derived.
A separate agreement has been entered into with KF concerning execution and
supervision of joint-financed prDject items (technical assistance, preinvestment
studies, and the betterment program) (para. 4.16).
6.03      Signing of the consultants' contract for technical assistance ta the
Infrastructure Department of the Ministry of Equipment will be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para. 4.18).
6.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$3.0 million to
the Government of Mauritania on standard IDA terms.
October 30, 1974



MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGEWAY PROJECT
Highway Classification arid Conditions
Improved _           Not Improved
Passable   Passable    Passable   Passable              %of
BituLminous   All Year  Part Year   All Year  Part Year   TOTAL   Total
National                     500         579         400       1,140         215       2,834    40%
Regional                      -          330         125         779         650       1,884    27%
Secondary                     -           32         180         443          -          655     9%
Non-Classified                           120          80         427       1.000       1,627    23%
1,061         785       2,789       1,865
TOTAL        500               1,846                   4,654           7,000
% of Total          7%                 26%                     66%                  100%i/
/ Difference due to rounding.
Source: ME, Infrastructtire Department
Septenber 1974



TABLE 2
I4AURITANIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Reg:Lstration - 1967-1973
Light    Heavy
Cars   Bases   Trucks   Trucks   Trailers   Tractors   Total
1967   428      8      179      118          4          5         742
1968   651     il      326        79         7          4       1,078
1969   627      4      312      181         18         21       1,163
1970   618     10      300       133        26         18       1,105
1971   875     il      469       131         3         40       1,529
1972   921     22      358       169        il          8      1,489
19732/ 465      9      299       630        12         14       1,429
2/ Through September 1973.
Source: ME, Department of Transport
June 1974



TABLE 3
MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Qonsujption of Motor Fuel - 1968-1972
(in m-3)
1968       1969       1970        1971         1972
GASOLINE
Super
MIFERMA           none       none       none         none        none
Other              n/a        n/a        n/a         2,540       2,916
Total              n/a        n/a        n/a         2,540       2,916
Regular
MIFERMA          1,843      1,832        2,538       2,422       2,1243
Other              n/a        n/a        n/a        11,875      12.502
Total              n/a        n/a        n/a'       14,297      149645
TOTAL Gasoline    12167      13,995      15,325       16,838      17 561
GAS-OIEL
MIFERMA           52,007     57,o68       61,204      47,564      62,2457
Other             19,210     17,384       37,361      49,553      43,729
Total             71,217     74j452       98,565      97,117     106,186
TOTAL MOTOR FUEL
MIFERMA           53,850     58,900       63,742      49,986      64,600
Other             29,534     29,577      50,148       63,968      59.147
GRAFND TOTAL      83&384     88,447      113,890     113,954     123,747
MIFERMA as %
of Grand Total      65%        67%        56%          44%         52%
NOTE: n/a = not available.
Source: Department of Mining and Geology
June 1974



1IAURITANIA
THILD HIGHWAY PROJEv'T
I4iLnimum. Training Requirements
Total       Total        To Be       Trained under      To Be Trained under
Needed    Available      Hired     Previous Project       Proposed Project
Operators:
Trucks                              89          63           26              44                25   + 45 = 70
Iighway Equipment                   48         43             5              30                18 * + 18 = 36
I4echanic Foremen                                     3                           --                 3
Worksnop Superintendents:
Highway Bases                                    3                            3                 3*
Subdivisions                                     7                            7                 7*
Mechanics:
Central Workshop                                19                            8                il
Field                                           12                           12                12*
3ubdivision Chiefs                                    9                           --                 8
llighway Base Chiefs                                  h                           __                 h
Hiighway Foremen                                     18                           __                18
Tr,aining for these, started under the previous project, must be continued under the proposed project.
Source:  BCEOM and mission estimates.                                                                             |
September 1974



TABLE 5
MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHiAY PROJECT
Hi{ghway e cpenditures - 1968-1975
(in UM Millions)
Year           Construction             MaintenanceY'
1968               57.0                    18.0
1969              201.,8                   30,o
1970              413.4                    4000
1971              248o3                    5o.0
1972               15.9                    55.0
1973               n.a.                    60vO
1974               nua.                    77.4
1975               n.ae                    80oO *
* Figure supplied durinmg negotiations - October 19740
Source: ME, Infrastructure Department
l/ Road Fund.
June 1974



MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Equipment Requirements
Total          To be               To be
3ubdivision   Highway Base      Total    Available        Retired           Purchased
__________________ .Requirements   Requi.rements   Required    (1973)      (197)    197        1975    (1976)
Bulldozer (120 HP)                1              4              5          5           _         _        _
(170 HP)               _              3              3          3           _         _        _         _
Motorgrader (120 HP)              8              7             15         13           5         -        7         _
Tractor (Farm Type 65 HP)        il              1             12          9           -         -        3         _
Front Erid Loader (35 iiF         _              7              7          9           2         -        -
Roller (Automotive 18 T)          _              3              3          1           -         -        2         _
Crane Truck (5 T)                 _              1              1          -           -         -        1         _
Road Broom                        2              _              2          -           -         -        2         _
Roller (Towed)                    5              1              6          6           -         -        -
Low Bed Trailer                   _              1              1          -           _         _        1         _
Trucks (2 to 3 T)                 8              7             15         12           -         -        3         -
Dump Trucks (7 T)                 8              _              8         10           4         4        2         4
Dump Trucks (10 T)                _             28             28         22          11        il       17        il
Tank Truck (Fuel 10,000 1)        2              2              4          -           _        _         4         _
Tank Truck                        8              8             16          7           2         5       il         5
Pick-Up Truck                                   1              1          1           -         - _
Larnd Rover                       7              8             15         19          8          5        4         5
Patching Unit                     _              2              2          2           _-                 - 
Source:  BCEOM and Infrastructure Department, ME
September 1974



TABLE 7
MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHWAI PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
UM (million)        US$  OOO Ecuivalent     Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total   Component
A. Technical Assistance
(i)  Services                   18.0    73.0    91.0    360   1,460    1,820         80
(ii)  Vehicles                   ---       305     3,5   ---        70        70     100
(iii)  Didactic Material          ---       3.0     3.0   ---        60        60     100
(iv)  Office Construction         3.5      2.0     5.5      70      40       110      36
(v) Office Furniture &
Equipment                  ___       1.5     1.5   ---        30        30     100
(vi)  Fellowships                 ---      i.5     2.5  ___--       50        50     100
Sub Total A           21.5    85.5   107.0    430   1,710    2,140         80
B.  Preinvestment Studies               7.0    28,5    35.5    14o       570      710       80
C. Betterment Program
(i)  Operating Costs of the
Highway Bases             100.5    405   141.0  2,010       810    2,820        29
(ii)  Drainage and River
Crossing Structures        20.5    40.0    60o5    410       800    1.210       66
Sub Total C          121.0    80.5   201.5  2,420   1,610    4,030         40
Sub Total A-C             119-5   194h5   34 .0  2,990   3.890    6.880         57
D. auiq_pment Procurement
(See Details, Tabl i )
(i) Equipment, Spare Parts
& Workshop Equipment       ---    159.8   159.8   ---    3,195    3,195        100
(ii)  Consultant Services        ---      15.0    15.0   ---       300       300     100
Sub Total D           ---    174.8   174.8   ---    3,495    3,1495       100
E. Contingencies
(i)  On Items A-C
a. Quantity (10% on
Item C,                12.0      8.0    20.0    240      160      400       40
b,  Pricesà                4770    47.5    94.5    940       950    1 890        50
-9*0    =1    1145  =1,10   -1v11         2,290      48
(li)  On Item D
a. Unforeseen Factors
(10%)                  ---     17.5    17.5   ---        350      350      100
b. Prices2/ (Including
(ii) a.)__                     32s7    32.7   __         6   6556         ~ 100
50,250,2   --- 1l005 10005                  100
Sub Total E           59.0   10507   16&7  1.180   2 115    3.295         64
TOTAL                       750     8       17    9.500   13.f70        69
(rounded)                                4,200   9,500   13,700        69
/ Based on annual price increases as follows:  Year          Services & Equipment       Civil Works
75                11%                   15%
76-79              7.5%                 12%
/  Year 1975: 17%.
Source: ME, Appraisal Mission. for equipme t-  CID&.
October 1974



MAURITANIA
TABLE 8
PROPOSED THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Mechanical Equipment
and Services
(US$'OOO)
Description                        Quantity    Unit Cost      Cost    (Rounded)
Motorgrader (120 HP)                         7          2.0        294.0
Tractor (Farm Type, 65 HP)                  3            7.2       21.6
Roller (Automotive 18 t)                     2          38-0       640o
Truck (2 to 3 t)                            3           12.0       36,0
Dump Truck (7 t)                            6           2500      150,0
Dump Truck (10 t)                          28           35>o      980.0
Tank Truck (Water)                         16           30.0      48000
Land Rover                                  9            5h5 4905
Trailer                                     3            2.5         7.5
Low-Bed Trailer                             1           15.0       15.0
Fuel Tanker (10,000 1)                      4           32.0      128.0
Road Broom                                  2           15.0       30.0
Crane Truck (5 t)                           1           37.0       37.0
Sub Total                             2,292,6       2,295
Spare Parts Stock (about 15%) and
Workehop Equipment                                              45000         450
Freight & Insurance                                               45000         450
3,192.6      3,195
Consulting Services                                               300.0         300
3,49206      3,495
Contingencies:
- Unforeseen Factors (10%)                                      34900         350
3,8416     3,845
- Price Escalation (1 year:  17%)                               653.1         655
TOTAL             4,494-7
(rounded)                       4.500
Source:  CmA estimate.
October 1974



MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Financing Plan
Costs                                                      Financing
(In Uu$100E Eauivalent)
Total     Total Net   !         in Earentheses:  Percentage of Total Cost)
Local     ForeiEn     Taxes      Gross      of Taxes          IDA                Kr             Canada            GOT
A. Technical AssistanceL/        360      1,670        ---     2,030         2,030          890 (44)       1,140 (56)            -
Contingency:  Price           80        315        ---       395          395
Sub Total              4         1,985       ---      2,425        2,425
B.  Preinvestment Studies        140        570                  710           710         320 (44)          390 (56)
Contingency:  Price           20         70                   90            90
Sub Total              160         640       ---        000           00
C.  Betterment Program           840      1,650       1,650    4,14C         2,490       1,10C (26)        1,390 (34)                        1,650 (4C)
Contingencies:  Quantity      80        160        160       400           240
Price       280        565         560       05           845
Sub Total            1,200       2,37       2,370 5J 9       4     3,575
D.  Equipment Procurement       ---       3,495        ---     3,495         3,495            --                             3,495 (100)
Contingencies:  Quantity   ---          350        ---       350           350
Price                  655                  655           655
Sub Total                        4,500       ---      4,500        4,500
TOTAL PROJECT COST         1,800      9 500       2,370   13.670        11,300
.:Unallocated              690               8BO            1 005              720
.Total Financing    L0                    33.00C    t2  2*370
1/  Office construction cost included in Betterment Program.
Source: ME, Appraisal Mission; for equipment.  CIlA.
October 1974



TAEIE 10
rAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHIWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year           Cumulative Disbursement
and Semester Ehding              at end of Semester
(US$ Thousands)
1974/75
December 1974                            ---
June 1975                                 300
1975/76
December 1975                             600
June 1976                               1,000
1976/77
December 1976                           1,300
June 1977                               1,600
1977/78
December 1977                           1,900
June 1978                               2,200
1978/79
December 1978                            2,500
June 1979                               2,700
1979/80
December 1979                           3,000
Source: Appraisal Mission
October 1974



TABLE 11
MAURITANIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROAEOT
Operating Costs of Highway Egcuipment
(in million IUM)
Annual Cost including Taxes
For one highway base +    For aeven subdivisions +
160 days p.a.               160 days p.a.
Spare Parts
(reneval nd                                                               1/
wear and tear)                5.7                         ô.5        (55%)-
Personnel
(mechanics and
operators)                    4.6                         6.8        (10%)
Routine Maintenance            1.1                         1.6        (10%)
Fuel                           4.6                         6.6        (55%)
Lubricants                     1.1                         1.5        (55%)
Total Operating Cost(rounded) 17.0                        25.0
Provision for Reneval          7.5                        12.9        (25%)
TOTAL COST   (rounded) 25.0                        38.0
1/ Approximate percentage of taxes.
Source: Infrastructure Departaent and mission estimates.
October 1974






IBRD 10995R
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N  C    f~~~~~~. O tI
X     C        MORQ01I        0e >1
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                                                 SPA
-  SA0              t       A       L18EY A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                              SN--  .uLGER                    . 
MAURITANIA(    "    f
,z' 0 ... :SENE6U. ,: 1E 
BETTERMENT WORKS                                                 ,A VA                             L     T                 C ,*  HAP
PREVIOUS IDA PROJECT                                                                 BIS.S '
ASPHALT ROADS                                                 MOROCCO                   SiERRA, /j N16ERiA- S
- - - - - -PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                             LIBERLA    -
LATERITE,'EARTH ROADS                         -  t                                                   OAWOMEY
TRAILS
I - -     RAILROADS             ,                 aoirr :
*       AIRFIELDS
_ . -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                               ALG  E  R  I A
o1        MILE ,o    Iso              '                               *                   ,a                                     
Ml__ __ _ __ __  _                 S  P. A   N    S               * \Bir-Moghr(ein   I /
o   50  100  150  200  250           !      p    '           H      .                J
STAN 1 S:H~~~~~~j                                           1
KILOMETERS               'A               IARA                              (/'---
-24°                               ___ A_ _ h   R A   !TROPIC OF CANCER              J              |
~~_ _ _   ___-i
1:   -.  _Zouérate 
F Derik                                                                       M  A  L
Nouodhibou.                                                          Oud-° ne
Alar *y</|. 
Oued Segu         \   Chinguetti
kIoIiut t
s-                    (Tidjikja -._ -                                                     Tichitt     '
NOUAKCHOTT  *                               Moudjéea j
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o anhikt
\   p   Boutilimit         </                 2       /                             A                    X       ::::~~~~~~~~~~~\ Ouaot
j  bA9s,ao 9_,,  =      \               <*~~~~YO'.Tamchakefl<                        Oalt 
' Aioun el Atrouss       /
Ross                       oghe
1V6       St. Louis  |*mBou
Motom~ 
DAKAR *                                               -         ù                               M        A        L      I
S E- N  E G A L                         )        `                       
)           \                                        dEr./, td,tr tr ftqt J f44
-  V 1612 Z 0-                                                           -         .                t:diDsgAdds
_   _  S    I                                   R   t E            S:            g       ,      ; -      -               ,~~~~~~~~~~~I 



