CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 519 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 11, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 519 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 11, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1974, between THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Government of Canada
(hereinafter called Canada), the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
(hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) and the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   By agreements to be entered into between Canada and the Borrower
(hereinafter called the Canadian Loan Agreement and Grant Agreement,
respectively), Canada intends to make available through the Canadian International
Development Agency to the Borrower for Part C of the Project a loan (hereinafter
called the Canadian Loan) in an amount equivalent to four million two hundred
thousand dollars and a grant (hereinafter called the Canadian Grant);
(C)   By an agreement to be entered into between the Kuwait Fund and
the Borrower (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement), the Kuwait
Fund intends to assist the Borrower in financing Parts A, B, D and E of the Project
by making to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in
an amount equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand dollars.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Parts A, B, D and E of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdiawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
January 1, 1985, and ending July 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In carrying out Part A and in order to assist the Borrower
in carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts and
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later
than a date four months after the effective date of this Agreement or such other
date as the Association shall agree for its approval a detailed program for the training
components of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Contractors employed by the Borrower in carrying out
Parts B(ii) and D of the Project shall be acceptable to the Association and shall
be employed upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the design standards
for the civil works included in the Project shall be those agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the specifications, reports, contract documents and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Kuwait Fund Loan and
the Canadian Loan and Grant, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Kuwait Fund Loan and the Canadian Loan


﻿6
and Grant and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Kuwait
Fund Loan and the Canadian Loan and Grant and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   With respect to Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall establish,
within the Infrastructure Department of its Ministry of Equipment, an accounting
system with separate bookkeeping arrangements, and every item of the accounting
books will be supported by relevant evidence certified by the Director of the
Infrastructure.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accour .ing practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project, open
a special account at the Tr6sor and shall maintain in it funds in an amount
equivalent to the estimated expenditures under the Project during the following
three months. The Borrower shall also credit in said account the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account which the Association shall not have
paid directly to suppliers of goods or services at the Borrower's request and on
its behalf.
(b) The Borrower shall open another account (caisse d'avance) in a bank
at Nouakchott, and shall credit it with funds withdrawn from the special account
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, in such amounts as shall be needed to cover
ordinary, small expenditures under the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all its equipment for road
maintenance to be adequately maintained and repaired and shall maintain sufficient
and adequate workshops in suitable places for the purpose.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall cau.e the primary highways included in its highway
system to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(c)   Starting from September 15, 1975, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, not later than September 15 in each year, its proposed highway
maintenance program and recurrent expenditures budget for highways for the next
fiscal year for the Association's comments up to and including the fiscal year in
which the Closing Date shall occur.
(d)   Before the Borrower undertakes the construction of any new major
highway or any section thereof, if any such steps are taken before the Closing
Date, the Borrower shall review with the Association the estimated cost of such
new highway including its estimated maintenance requirements and the projected
budgetary allocations therefor.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) designate the most promising engineers
and technicians within its Ministry of Equipment to work together with and as
counterparts to the technical assistance consultants mentioned in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement; and (b) after consultation with the Association, select, by
preference among the counterparts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
those to whom fellowships should be awarded under Part A(ii) of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities adequate
to collect and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and
procedures, such information concerning road traffic, road construction and
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extension of its highway system.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all such measures as shall be necessary
to ensure at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its
improved highways do not exceed limits consistent with the design standards of
such highways.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿8
(a)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Kuwait
Fund Loan or of the Canadian Loan and Grant shall have been suspended, in
whole or in part, and the Borrower shall have failed to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Association that alternative funds are available to the Borrower
for the Project; and
(b)   the Kuwait Fund Loan or the Canadian Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof pursuant to the provisions of
the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement and of the Canadian Loan Agreement
respectively providing for such remedy in case of default by the Borrower.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the contract of employment of the consultants to be assigned to the
Ministry of Equipment under Part A(i) of the Project has been signed; and
(b)   the Canadian Loan Agreement and Grant Agreement and the Kuwait
Fund Loan Agreement have been duly signed and have become fully effective,
and conditions precedent to initial disbursements, if any, under such agreements,
save for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date June 9, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 and
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.03 shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministbre de la Planification
et du D6veloppement Industriel
Nouakchott
Mauritanie
Cable address:
MINIPLAN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ A. Ould Abdallah
Authorized Representathe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional V1ice President
Western Afticv


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such
Categories and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such
Categories:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Technical                      800,000           44%
assistance
(2)   Fellowships                     20,000           44%
(3)   Feasibility                    320,000           44%
studies and
detailed
engineering
(4)   Didactic                        70,000           44%
material,
office equip-
ment and fur-
niture and
vehicles under
Part B of the
Project
(5)   Civil works:
(a)   under Part                 30,000           26%
B(ii) of
the Project
(b)  under Part               1,070,000           26%
D of the
Project
(6)   Unallocated                    690,000
TOTAL        3,0000


﻿12
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursements percentages then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     (i)        The utilization of about 350 man-months of technical
assistance for the Borrower's Ministry of Equipment,
Ministry of Planning and Ministry of Trade and
Transportation, to continue to improve the said Ministries'
road maintenance service, transport organization and
planning, and staff training. Such technical assistance shall
be as set forth in the Exhibit to this Schedule, as such
exhibit may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association;
(ii)       The provision of fellowships for the training of highway
personnel.
Part B.     (i)        The purchase of didactic material for the training of
highway personnel in Mauritania;
(ii)       The construction, equipment and furnishing of offices for
the technical assistance experts assigned to the Ministry
of Equipment.
(iii)      The acquisition of vehicles by the technical assistance
experts referred to in Part A(i) above.
Part C.     Procurement of highway equipment and spare parts for maintenance
and betterment works.
Part D.     Execution of a betterment program on about 365 km of the following
roads:
(i)         the road from Atar to Choum (about 125 km);
(ii)        a section of the road from Akjoujt to Atar (about 40 km);
(iii)      the road from Boghe to Kaedi (about 100 km); and


﻿14
(iv)       two sections of the road from Kaedi to Kiffa (totalling about
100 km).
Part E.    Feasibility Study and detailed engineering for construction of the
Rosso-Boghe road (about 200 km).
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿15
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE DEPARTMENT OF THE MINISTRY
OF EQUIPMENT
1)   The following mechanical specialists:
two workshop mechanics
one training expert, and
two equipment inspectors
shall be assigned to the Equipment Division to:
a)   assist the Division Chief and Central Workshop Chief;
b)    control the use of highway equipment and the carrying out of
repair operations in the workshops and in the field; and
c)   train operators and mechanics.
2)   The following highway experts:
one engineer and
two technicians
shall be assigned to the Road and Airport Division to assist in:
a)   reorganizing the field subdivisions for highway maintenance,
training their personnel and programming and supervising their
activities;
b)    making the investigations required to prepare draft budgets for
highway recurrent expenditures;
c)   preparing the engineering for the betterment program forming
Part D of the Project and supervising the highways bases; and


﻿16
d)   setting up an accounting system and a unit to monitor the
condition of and the traffic on the highway networks.
3)    A senior training specialist on a short-term assignment to prepare a
detailed  training  program  together  with   proposals  for  an
implementation schedule.
II    -    TO THE MINISTRY OF PLANNING
A -:ransport economist/planner to assist the Ministry in identifying and
evaluating transport investments and to study modes of appropriate
domestic transport services.
III   -     TO THE MINISTRY OF TRADE AND TRANSPORTATION
A transport expert to assist the Ministry in the organization of road
transport and in the assistance furnished by the Ministry to local
transport firms.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Procurement of Didactic Material and Office Equipment and Furniture
Didactic material and office equipment and furniture included in Parts
B(i) and (ii) of the Project respectively, and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (4) of paragraph I of Schedule
1 to this Development Credit Agreement, shall be procured in accordance
with the applicable procurement procedures of the Borrower. In the selection
of suppliers, the Borrower may take into account its need to standardize
such material with other similar or comparable material already owned by
the Borrower.
II.   Procurement of Civil Works by Contracts
A.    Except as provided in paragraph D hereunder, contracts for the civil
works included in Parts B(ii) and D of the Project shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Bidders for the works included in Parts B(ii) and D of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for
Domestic Contractors.
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (5) of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement,
the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in
paragraph B of Part II of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the information for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by the


﻿18
Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference
and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison
of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and cnmparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    With respect to any contract for the civil works included in Parts B(ii)
and D of the Project and estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent, the Borrower may, after advertising in at least one local
newspaper, award such contracts on a competitive basis in accordance
with the applicable procurement procedures of the Borrower, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of contracts to be awarded in
accordance with this procedure and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent. Identical or similar
works to be procured shall be grouped together to form economic
bid packages for purposes of bidding.
111.  Procurement of Betterment Works Without Contracting
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part II above:
A.    All earth works on running sections (platforms and surface courses)
will be carried out by force account.
B.    Construction of river-crossing structures and drainage works may be
carried out by force account if, in the opinion of the Borrower and
the Association, such works can be more efficiently carried out by
force account.
IV.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
A.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be


﻿19
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as
the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part IL.C
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and the Borrower shall rrake such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
B.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(i)         Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association   shall reasonably    request. Any    further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(ii)        Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower
shall inform the Association of the names of the bidders
and the respective amounts of the bids.
(iii)       After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other
infonnation as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this


﻿20
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(iv)       The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.
(v)        Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract.
C.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


