Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12875
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2295-IN)
MARCH 23, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2295-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency = Indian Rupees (Rs)
Currency Exchange Rates
At Appraisal Year (May 1983)                US$1.00 = Rs 9.50
At Mid-Term Review (1988)                   US$1.00 = Rs 14.48
At Completion Year (September 1992)         US$1.00 = Rs 28.00
BORROWER                                    Government of India
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                         Government of Uttar Pradesh
FISCAL YEAR
1 April - 31 March
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP          Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GOI             Government of India
GOUP            Government of Uttar Pradesh
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR             Mid-Term Review
NBC             Natural Breeding Centres
NGO             Non-Government Organization
PCR             Project Completion Report
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
T&V             Training and Visit



FtOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 23, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Himalayan Watershed Management Project (Loan 2295-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Himalayan Watershed Management
Project (Loan 2295-IN). Parts I and m were prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
and Part II by the Borrower.
The project, as initially designed was ambitious and complex. The principal emphasis
was on establishing small, local plantations, constructing soil conservation structures, and improving
crop and livestock practices so as to minimize the deterioration of land and related resources. Initial
progress towards the goals was slow, hampered by the problems of coordination among the several
line agencies responsible for execution. At the Mid-Term Review some of the initial objectives were
scaled back, and organizational changes were agreed. Progress improved markedly and the revised
goals were met. The PCR reestimates the ERR of the forest component at 5 percent, compared to 24
percent at appraisal, the difference being attributed to lower yields and higher establishment costs than
foreseen. The ERRs for the agricultural components were not reestimated because of lack of data.
The institutional objectives were minor and their impact modest. As a result, the project is rated as
marginally satisfactory and sustainability uncertain.
The Borrower, in Part II, has provided extensive commentary on the performance of the
project. This notes several disagreements with the conclusions of the PCR. In particular, it
challenges the judgement that the use of check dams for soil erosion control was ineffective.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. Because
of the differences in judgement noted, an audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2295-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ......................................................                                                          i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....................................................  iii
PARTI ...................................................... 1
1.   Project Identity  ....................................................   1
2.   Background ....................................................                                                    1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  ........................                  .............................  2
4.   Project Design and Organization  ....................                    .................................  3
5.   PProject Implementation ....................................................  4
6.   Project   Results ....................................................                                             6
7.   Project Sustainability .....................................................   9
8.   Bank Peiformiance  .................................................... 10
9.   Borrower Performance .................................................... 10
10.  Lessons of Experience ...........1.......................................... I 
11.  Project  Relationship ....................................................                                       11
12.  Consulting    Services .....................................................                                     12
13.  Project  Documentation   and   Data ....................................................                         12
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .........                                        ................ 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART mg. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............            ..       ................ 87
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .87
2. Project Timetable .87
3. Credit Disbursements .87
4. Project Implementation .                                                         88
5. Project Costs and Financing..                                                    89
A. Project Costs.                                                               89
B. Project Financing.                                                          90
6. Project Results    ..91
A. Direct Benefits.                                                            9 1
B. Economic Impact .91
7. Status of Covenants .92
8.  Use of Bank Resources ............................. 92
A. Staff Inputs ............................. 92
B. Missions ............................. 93
APPENDICES
1.  Typical One Hectare Farm Crop Model ............................. 94
2. Crop Budgets .95
3. Annual Plantings by the Project.                                                107
4. Annual Outputs from Project Plantations .108
5. Project Implementation - Key Indicators .109
6. Project Costs.                                                                  110
7. Economic Analysis .                                                             112
8. Project Publications ............... 113
MAP IBRD 16813



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2295-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Himalayan Watershed
Management Project for which a Bank Loan of US$46.2 million (Loan 2295-IN) was approved on
May 31, 1983. US$15.0 million and US$1.0 million were cancelled in November 1989 and
December 1991, respectively. The Loan closed on September 30, 1992, two years behind
schedule. Final disbursement from the loan was made on February 18, 1993 and the balance of
US$1.9 million was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III of this PCR were prepared by
the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission
which visited India in March 1993.
The report was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the legal
documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda, relevant Bank reports on the sector, and discussions with the Borrower's
project staff and the Bank's staff at Headquarters in New Delhi who had been associated with the
project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2295-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The primary objective of the project was to minimize, in selected areas, further
deterioration of the Himalayan ecosystem, caused by depletion of forest cover, overgrazing, bad
land use and careless road construction, all of which resulted in increasing erosion in these areas.
In addition, efforts were to be made to improve agricultural productivity and enhance rural
incomes. The main components of the project were: (a) fuel and fodder tree plantations; (b) soil
conservation; (c) livestock development; (d) improvement of agricultural extension; (e) horticultural
development; and (f) irrigation development.
Implementation Experience
2.        Implementation took nine years instead of seven because of delays during the early
years of the project (para 4.5). The total loan disbursements were US$28.3 million or
61.2 percent of the original loan amount of US$46.2 million. Up to the Mid-Term Review
(MTR), which was completed in July 1988, the project made only limited progress towards
achieving its targets. This was primarily as a result of the six line departments being charged with
the individual implementation of different project components and then giving somewhat low
priority to these additional responsibilities. There was also little consultation with the beneficiaries
and poor coordination between the various line departments, so that the project activities became
widely dispersed over the sub-watersheds. Following the MTR, these problems were mostly
resolved by the creation of a unified management system with line department staff seconded to the
project. Project targets were revised and better consultation with the beneficiaries was instituted.
As a result of these changes, the project made satisfactory progress towards achieving the revised
targets.
3.        The most critical variances between planned and actual project implementation are the
significant shortfalls in the planting of fuelwood and fodder trees. However, the area actually
available for afforestation was much smaller than originally estimated. The project considerably
exceeded its targets for physical gully control and also most agricultural production targets, which
mainly involved distribution of improved seeds. Cattle exchange was dropped after three years,
but this was replaced by the development of Natural Breeding Centers (NBC) which resulted in
improved dairy production.



iv
Results
4.         The project had mixed success in attaining its stated objectives. While there was
substanial success in the agricultural components and the animal breeding activities, resulting in
substantial increases in fann incomes, the project fell far short of attaining its targets in the forestry
and soil conservation components. Given that the latter were the main activities of the project, their
mediocre performance reduced the overall impact of the project and it is doubtful that the project
made substantial headway in achieving its primary objective in minimizing further deterioration of
the Himalayan ecosystem in the selected project areas. However, the impact of the agricultural
program has been considerable, in so much as about 80 percent of farmers in the project areas are
now growing improved high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat and are using small quantities of
fertilizers. Consequently, crop yields have increased by about 50 percent.
5.         Whilst, according to current practice, no Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculation
has been made for extension activities, and lack of data about the benefiting area and number of
beneficiaries made it impossible to recalculate ERRs for the horticulture and irrigation components,
the ERR for the forestry activities has been re-estimated at 5 percent, taking into account
proportionate administration costs. If these costs are excluded, then the ERR improves to
8.5 percent. The low ERR is due mainly to high plantation establishment costs and potential yields
re-estimated at much lower levels than at appraisal.
Sustainability
6.         The areas planted for fuelwood and fodder are insufficient to meet the annual needs of
adjacent villages and a sustainable supply of these materials will depend on careful management of
the resources by the local communities. The checkdams are unlikely to be maintained.
7.         The training and visit extension introduced into the area by the project has now ceased
and thus there is little chance that the improved technological agricultural base will be built upon.
Similarly, with the closure of virtually all tree and fruit tree nurseries in the project area, the project
tree planting activities are unlikely to be sustained. The activities of the NBC appear to be
sustainable.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.        Through the project the Bank made a resource contribution towards the development
of the Himalayan watersheds. New technologies were introduced and valuable lessons can be
learned from the experience. The main lessons are: (a) project areas should be of a manageable
size; (b) in ecosystem rehabilitation projects, erosion control measures should be targeted
according to the need of the area rather than to the availability of land for planting; (c) mid-term
reviews should be completed on schedule; (d) frequent changes of senior project staff should be
avoided; (e) local communities should be involved in project identification, be active participants
in, and make contributions to, the project; and (f) where a new technology is being tested, such as
the introduction of vetiver grass on steep slopes, all project participants (staff and farmers) should
be made aware of this fact and effective long-term monitoring and evaluation arranged.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2295-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Loan No.               2295-IN
RVP Unit               South Asia
Country               India
Sector                 Agriculture
2. Background
2.1       The Himalayas form the source and main catchment area of all the major rivers of the
Indo-Gangetic plains. These plains are subject to annual flooding which periodically have a
devastating effect on agricultural land and property. Also, the life and viability of multi-purpose
irrigation and hydropower schemes are put in jeopardy due to the excessive run-off and silt load
carried by these rivers. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, the severity of flooding increased,
even though there was no discernible increase in annual rainfall.
2.2       The Himalayan and Shiwalik regions of the State of Uttar Pradesh extend over
58,000 kM2, with elevations above sea level of between 300 and 7,000 m. Two thirds of the area
is classified as forest, although actual forest cover is much less. The area has a highly fragile
ecosystem and highly erodible soils. The regions have very steep slopes in the upper catchments,
which, in combination with high intensity rainstorms result in rapid erosion, even when not
interfered with by man. High densities of people and livestock result in fuelwood and fodder
extraction far exceeding annual biomass production, thereby causing accelerated denudation.
Further, because of increasing population pressure, crop cultivation has been extended to
unsuitably steep unprotected slopes, thus contributing to erosion.
2.3       After the worst ever floods hit Northern India in August 1978, the Government of
India (GOI) appointed a Working Group to formulate an action plan for flood control in the Indo-
Gangetic basin. It was envisaged that the program should integrate downstream engineering
works with upstream soil conservation, reforestation and other watershed treatment measures of
the flood-prone rivers and their tributaries. As part of the proposed program, Bank assistance was
sought for two watersheds, Nayar and Panar, in the outer and middle Himalayas in Uttar Pradesh.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The primary objective of the project was aimed at minimizing, in selected areas,
further deterioration of the Himalayan ecosystem, caused by depletion of forest cover,
overgrazing, bad land use and careless road construction, all of which has resulted in increasing
erosion in these areas. In addition, efforts were made to improve agricultural productivity and
enhance rural incomes.
3.2        The project consisted of the following components:
(a)    establishment of 59,000 ha of mixed species plantations (for fuel and
timber), 27,800 ha of fodder tree plantations on government and panchayat-
owned land, and fuel and fodder trees on some 81,000 ha of privately-
owned wastelands, which are not regularly cultivated and on field
boundaries;
(b)    construction of soil conservation structures (by the Forest Department)
designed to protect existing infrastructure such as roads and villages and
including some 1,650 brushwood/stone checkdams, 1,300 cratewire dams
and 700 simple drop structures. Construction of terraces (by the Agriculture
Department) on 6,000 ha of arable farming land;
(c)    livestock development, including a cattle exchange program in which
10,500 buffaloes would be exchanged for local cattle and provision of better
livestock services through improvements to 40 existing livestock
dispensaries;
(d)    improvement of agricultural extension services through provision of staff,
equipment, housing and staff training;
(e)    horticultural development, including multiple grafting of wild-growing trees
with improved material of 3,900 ha of existing, but wild, orchards and
establishment of 1,500 ha of new fruit orchards;
(f)    irrigation development (by soil conservation staff), including improvement,
construction and lining of 250 km of small channels and construction of 650
small water tanks;
(g)    development of research and training activities connected with watershed
development;
(h)    project administration at State, Watershed and Sub-watershed level; and
(i)    establishment of a National Watershed Development Policy Committee at
national level, assisted by a Watershed Development Council for appraisal of
sub-projects, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of project progress.
3.3        The total project cost, over a period of seven years, was estimated at appraisal at
about US$69.12 million (Rs. 656 million), of which only US$0.80 million (Rs. 7.3 million)
would involve foreign expenditures. Approximately 70 percent of the project cost net of taxes and
duties (US$66 million) was to be financed by a Bank loan of US$46.2 million.
, ~ ~ ~ ~ -- - - - -



3
3.4        Overall responsibility for coordination and execution of the project rested with the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Secretary, Hill Area Development Department, Government of Uttar
Pradesh (GOUP) was responsible for project implementation at the State level.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project was identified and prepared by the GOUP assisted by the GOI, with the
Forest Department, GOUP, providing the majority of the input. The project was appraised by the
Bank in November 1981.1
4.2        The basic project concept was that the components selected for development should
be acceptable to local populations and so designed that the great majority of people living within
areas selected for rehabilitation would perceive themselves as direct beneficiaries of project actions
and be involved in the planning and execution of project components, such as fuelwood and fodder
plantations and pasture development. However, the potential beneficiaries were not
involved in project identification.
4.3       In addition, the project incorporated the following planning principles: (a) the
approach to development of special problem areas was to be comprehensive rather than piecemeal;
(b) the characteristics of a given location, its susceptibility to natural hazards such as drought and
erosion, and its potential for development and reclamation were to be established through a multi-
disciplinary approach involving close cooperation between specialists in the various disciplines;
and (c) planning and coordination of physical improvement activities and mobilization of human
resources were to be carried out within natural boundaries so that area development plans can be
executed gradually, micro-watershed by micro-watershed.
4.4        Drawing on the lessons learned in the Kandi Watershed Protection Project, the SAR
emphasized the use of low-cost agricultual/silviculturl solutions. Land closure, afforestation and
removal of free-grazing livestock had proved to be the most effective methods of restoring ground
cover and reducing run-off of rainwater. Engineering works for soil conservation in upper
catchment areas would be limited to protecting blocks of arable land, forest land and existing
infrastructure (e.g., roads, villages, etc.).
4.5        Although the timing of the project was appropriate and its conceptual basis was
sound, the project was not particularly well prepared. The main initial focus was on the
achievement of physical targets and there was not enough emphasis on social issues. The absence
of clearly defined implementation roles and responsibilities and a detailed implementation plan
reduced the chances of success of the project. The six line departments charged with
implementation of the various project sub-components gave low priority to their additional
responsibilities under the project. There was also little consultation with the beneficiaries and poor
coordination between the various line departments, so that the project activities became widely
dispersed over the sub-watersheds and consequently the project made only limited progress
towards achieving its targets during the first five years. Some of these problems could have been
overcome by a project launch workshop which would have meant that all parties had a clear idea of
their role and responsibilities in the project.
4.6        The project design was relatively complex and overly ambitious given that it involved
implementation by six line departments and involved some 13 major activities plus many minor
I  SAR, dated May 10, 1983.



4
activities. Further, the project area was unrealistically large and being relatively remote, faced
considerable access difficulties. Another special problem confronting the area was the movement
of able-bodied men out of the hills for work, but this was not given adequate weighage in
designing the project. The manpower resources required to implement the project and achieve its
targets were expected to be developed in the course of the project. However, the project lacked a
well-funded training component and this adversely affected subsequent implementation.
4.7        Because the project was viewed as a pilot project developing replicable technologies
for watershed development, effective M&E was considered at appraisal as a particularly important
project activity. The arrangement that a State Government Agency was entrusted with project
evaluation was not entirely satisfactory. The setting up of project M&E unit would have ensured
better control of M&E activities and would have been preferable. Essential basic information on
the impact of the project is not available, as, for example, the number of beneficiary families and
the area and average yields of improved cropping are not known.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        The Bank loan was approved on May 31, 1983 and signed on June 8, 1983. The
project became effective on September 9, 1983 with an original closing date of September 30,
1990, which was extended twice to September 30, 1992. The total disbursements were US$28.3
million, or 61.2 percent of the original loan amount of US$46.2 million (see Part III/3).
Altogether US$17.9 million of the loan was cancelled on November 7, 1989 (US$16.0 million)
and on February 18, 1993 (US$1.9 million).
5.2        Up to the Mid-Term Review (MTR), which was delayed and only completed in July
1988, the project made only limited progress towards achieving its targets and it was apparent that
there was no focus on the important components, the project's main objectives were not being
addressed and there was little cooperation between line departments. A serious constraint was the
lack of a coordinated nursery establishment policy.
5.3        Following the MTR, these problems were mostly resolved by the creation of a unified
management system with line department staff seconded to the project. Project targets were
revised and better consultation with the beneficiaries was instituted, with non-government
organizations (NGOs) voluntarily assisting the project as motivators. As a result of these changes,
the project made satisfactory progress towards achieving the revised targets. However, better
progress would probably have been possible if the repetitive transfers of senior project staff had
been avoided.
5.4        Although by 1988 the project had planted 16,574 ha with tree seedlings, there was
little visible impact on stabilizing the ecosystem. Also, enough fodder tree seedlings were
distributed free of charge to farmers to, in theory, plant 17,891 ha under the farm forestry
program. Due to very low survival rates of the seedlings, this latter program was assessed to
have had virtually no impact and was discontinued after the MTR. The SAR plantation target of
86,000 ha was based on extrapolation of data from Machiad sub-watershed. It was subsequendy
found that only 55,000 ha were actually available for afforestation. Consequently, the MTR
reduced the afforestation target to 35,905 ha, with emphasis placed on fuelwood and fodder
plantations.
5.5        A shift from sub-watershed to micro-watershed planning (as originally proposed in
the SAR) occurred in the post-MTR period and it was only in late 1988 that general agreement was
reached among senior management that the basic technical objectives of the project were slope
stabilization and fuel and fodder production, and that more emphasis should be given to improving



5
in situ moisture conservation. A significant reduction in seedling mortality might have been
achieved if these measures had been taken up in 1985, when they were advocated by a supervision
mission. A shift in focus to meet local community needs for fuel and fodder did not materialize
because of insufficient efforts by the project management team to create avenues of interest on this
point and to adapt the project to meet this basic objective. Although not included in the SAR, the
project introduced energy saving devices, such as improved wood stoves, biogas plants,
smokeless chulhas and solar cookers to try to reduce pressure on the forests for fuelwood.
5.6         The MTR forestry targets, revised to cover plantations on degraded land, blank areas
and land near to villages, were exceeded, mainly because communities allocated more land for
planting than expected. However, the forestry nurseries in the project areas were closed at the end
of the project.2 The project also exceeded the MTR target in pasture development. The exclusion
of cattle from grazing areas increased ground cover by indigenous grasses, which protected the soil
from being loosened by raindrop impact and increased grass yields by 30-40 percent. V-ditches
cut on the contour helped infiltration and increased available moisture for plant growth. However,
there was a tendency to adopt a blue print approach.3 For example, the contour ditches were cut at
6 m intervals regardless of sudden changes in slope angle. The long length of the ditches increased
the danger of gully erosion by concentrating run-off at low points. Vetiver grass, planted on the
contour to slow down run-off velocity, showed very poor growth after 3 years and its effect on
intercepting run-off was negligible. Whether a Vetiver hedge will develop in succeeding years is
not clear and needs close monitoring. Love grass, on the other hand, looked good, forming dense
clumps. Trials using clover to increase soil fertility look promising but the leguminous
Styloanthes failed to establish itself.
5.7         The project exceeded its targets considerably for physical gully control structures
(brushwood/stone checkdams, cratewire dams and drop structures). However, due to poor
design, construction and location, most of the structures inspected by the mission were not
slowing run-off velocity and controlling siltation. In many instances the structures accelerated
erosion of nala walls by directing water around the structures instead of over the spillways.4
5.8         Between 1987 and 1991, the GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology Hill
Campus undertook studies on standardization of propagation techniques of indigenous shrub
species, suitability trials of grasses and legumes, optimum doses of fertilizers for natural pastures,
and preliminary estimates of the optimum carrying capacity of pasture (2 cattle units/ha). The
Forest Research Institute started its research program in 1988, but some studies did not begin until
1991 - too late to obtain any worthwhile results. The potential to gather data on the reduction of
environmental degradation in the project area was lost because the project failed to repair the
recording instrument installed to measure run-off and soil loss from a mini-watershed early in the
project life.5
5.9         Following the MTR, project management put emphasis on the improvement of
agricultural production, mainly through the distribution of improved seeds, such that all physical
targets, both SAR and MTR revised, were exceeded, except those for the development of seed
production centers and the distribution of seed minikits. In the latter case, a seed multiplication
program was intnduced successfully to offset a shortage of seed for the minikits. The agriculture
2      GOUP clarified that the forest nurserics were not closed but transferred to the line departments.
3      GOUP disagrees citing considerable flexibility in approach and methodology for soil conservation.
4      GOUP maintains that despite some instances of faulty designs, overall quality and cost effectiveness were
adequate
5      This is disputed by GOUP, stating that a standby instrument was used for regular data collection and maintenance
of run-off and sedimentation information.



6
program was supported by the introduction into the project area of a T&V system of agricultural
extension. The research institute Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan at Almora provided
excellent support to this extension service.
5.10       Horticultural assistance to farmers included the top grafting of wild pear trees,
rehabilitation of old orchards, planting of new orchards, mainly of citrus, and the distribution of
tools. Except for the top grafting of pear trees, where the achievement fell well short of the target,
all other targets were exceeded. The potential impact of this sub-component is considerable and
should improve significantly the cash incomes of beneficiaries once all trees are in full bearing.
Even though about 75 percent of the project fruit tree seedlings were imported from outside the
State and there was thus significant scope for local production of seedlings, most horticultural
nurseries within the project area have ceased production following the closure of the project6
5.11       Initially, the animal husbandry sub-component consisted of catde exchange, feed
supplies and the strengthening of veterinary and bull centers. The cattle exchange system, due to
various practical difficulties, was unsuccessful and was dropped after about two years. Other
activities, such as artficial insemination, were tried but after the MTR the project concentrated on
the development of Natural Breeding Centers (NBC), where first cross Jersey/Local catde breed
bulls and improved buffalo bulls were stationed and used on local young female stock. As a result
of the program, large numbers of improved female progeny are spread throughout the zones of
influence of the NBCs and, in general, these animals are producing yields of milk up to five litres
per day compared to one litre per day from the local stock.
5.12       Three risks which were identified at appraisal were not avoided during project
implementation. The development of low-cost technical packages was poorly supported by
research, but the biggest adverse effect on the project's results was due to lack of participation of
the local people and the inadequate organization and management structure. Conversely, the
decision taken at the MTR to change the management structure and involve the beneficiaries in the
planning process was the action that had the most positive effect on project implementation.
Clearly, the project would have benefitted greatly if the MTR had been completed earlier, as
originally scheduled.
6. Project Results
6.1        The project had mixed success in attaining its stated objectives. While there was
substantial success in the agricultural components and the animal breeding activities resulting in
substantial increases in farm incomes, the project fell far short of attaining its targets in the forestry
and soil conservation components. Given that the latter were the main activities of the project, their
mediocre performance reduced the overall impact of the project and it is doubtful that the project
made substantial headway in achieving its primary objective in minimizing further deterioration of
the Himalayan ecosystem in the selected project areas.
6.2        The main physical targets at SAR and as revised at the MTR and the actual
achievement are set out in Part III/4. This shows that although the project failed to achieve the
majority of its SAR targets, it exceeded most of its MTR targets. One sub-watershed was dropped
from the project.
6.3        There were large shortfalls in the areas planted to forestry. Only 40,253 ha was
planted to fuelwood compared with the SAR target of 59,000 ha, and anticipated fuelwood
6     GOUP suggests that planting materials continue to be available from line department nurseries.



7
production over 20 years is only 0.8 million tons as against the SAR estimate of 3.2 million tons.
This huge variance in fuelwood production is explained by the reduced areas planted to fuelwood
and fodder, and large differences in expected yields. As will be seen from the following table,
SAR fuelwood yields are based on an average of 38.9 and 18.1 t/ha from forestry and fodder
plantations, respectively, whereas the mission estimates that they will be only 18.9 and 10.0 t/ha
after 20 years, respectively. It must be stressed that the mission's estimates cannot be verified as
the project did not monitor or evaluate growth rates or potential yields. However, field
observations showed that stands included about 40 percent of species (Quercus, Cedrus,
Cupressus) that would not be harvested in the first 20 years, thus reducing yield estimates. Only
those plantations planted in Year 1 of the project are harvested twice (in Years 10 and 20). See
Part III, Appendix 4 for further details.
Comparison of SAR, Mid-Term Revised and Project Completion Fuelwood
Production Estimates after 20 Years
Area       Estimated Yield        Production
(ha)            t/ha)               (tons)
A. SAR Estimate
Fuelwood plantations                      59,000           38.87              2,293,380
Fodder plantations                        27,800           18.08                502,524
Farm forestry                             81,000            5.02                406,675
Total                                167,800                              3,202,579
B. Mid-Term  Revised Estimate
Fuelwood plantations                      31,679           23.32 a/            738,754
Fodder plantations                         4,226           10.85 '/             45,852
Farm forestry                             17,891             b/                 b/
Total                                 53,796                                784,606
. Actual At Project Completion
Fuelwood plantations                      40,253           18.91               761,329
Fodder plantations                         4,226           10.00                42,260
Farm forestry                             17,891            b/                   b/
Total:                                62,370                               803,S89
60 percent of SAR estimated yield.
b Negligible.                                                          I                    I
The 784,000-ton MTR estimate of fuelwood is much more comparable with the completion
estimate than the SAR estimate, when the SAR yield has been reduced by 40 percent to allow for
non-harvesting of timber species.
6.4         There is also a considerable variance between the SAR estimate of 1.30 million tons
of fodder and actual expected production of 0.38 million tons. This difference is explained by the
smaller area planted, frequent lopping, lower rates of regeneration due to cold winters and poor site
conditions.
6.5         The expected production of 1.6 million tons of grass from project activities is
50 percent of SAR estimates. The variance is due to the reduced project area and lower yield
expectations (the 20-year average project grass yields from fuelwood plantations are half those
calculated in the SAR).



8
6.6        Except for drop structures, the project exceeded considerably the limited targets
which the SAR set for physical gully control structures. Despite supervision missions repeatedly
advising that engineering control works in torrent gullies be given low priority or deferred to avoid
loss of investment, the Soil Conservation Department carried out its own program regardless of the
project's recommendations. Labor costs were exceptionally high (12 man-days for one checkdam,
250 man-days for each cratewire dam and drop structure) and benefits appear to be extremely
small. Most of the gully control structures seen by the PCR mission were accelerating erosion in
generally stable nalas. Poor location, design, construction and failure to account for the source of
eroding material resulted in the checkdams directing water around the structures against the sides
instead of over the spillways. Warnings by supervision missions about these faults were ignored
continually.
6.7        The impact of the agricultural program has been considerable, in so much as about
80 percent of the targeted beneficiaries are now growing improved high yielding varieties (HYV)
of rice, wheat and other crops and are using small quantities of fertilizers. Consequently, crop
yields have increased by about 50 percent. Appraisal estimates and actual yields obtained or
expected to be achieved are set out in Part HII4 for the major crops and activities. There was
significant improvement in crop yields by farmers who adopted the improved packages introduced
by the project. Yields of 3 and 2 tons per ha were achieved with irrigated and unirrigated HYV of
rice, respectively, compared to 2 and 1.2 tons, respectively, without the project. There was also a
substantial increase in HYV wheat yields which rose to 2.4 and 1.8 tons per ha for irrigated and
unirrigated fields, respectively, compared to 1.2 and 1.0 tons, respectively, without the project.
There were also significant improvements in the yields of lentil. See Part III, Appendix 2 for
detailed crop budgets.
6.8        Farmers participating in the project enjoyed substantial incremental incomes (see Part
III, Appendix 1). At farm level, farmers increased their net financial retums by Rs. 4,150 per ha
in the kharif season and by Rs. 2,924 per ha in the rabi season. On an individual crop level,
farmers posted significant increases in returns to family labor, which more than doubled in the
case of rice, wheat and peas. A crop model for farmers growing fruit trees under the project
shows an expected financial rate of return close to 35 percent.
6.9        The project had a considerable impact on job creation in the project area. About 900
full-time jobs were created to operate and manage project activities. No reliable data are available
about the total number of casual jobs created by the project but the project provided a great deal of
temporary work for the local inhabitants, particularly in the forestry and soil conservation
activities.
6.10       The costs of establishing the fuelwood and fodder plantations were much higher than
expected due to the following factors: (a) siting the forest nurseries away from permanent water
and poor nursery management in the early years of the project led to an aggregate 70 percent
mortality of seedlings in the nurseries and during transport, sub-standard seedlings from nurseries
contributing to the high mortality rates in the plantations (40-50 percent in some cases); (b) the
planting rate of 5 to 12 trees per man-day was excessively low compared with a norm of 36 trees
per man-day; and (c) protecting the plantations by building dry stone walls (estimated at 2 m per
man-day) was ineffective as they were easily breached and seldom maintained. Although only
37 percent of the SAR targets for plantations were achieved, plantation costs were 73 percent of the



9
SAR estimate.7 The largest cost overrun was with project administration, which exceeded the
SAR estimate by 96 percent.8
6.11       The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) estimated at appraisal were 24 percent for
forestry activities, over 100 percent for agricultural extension, 35 percent for horticulture,
64 percent for irrigation and 23 percent for the whole project. According to current practice, no
ERR calculation has been made for extension activities, and lack of data about the benefiting area
and the number of project beneficiaries has made it impossible to calculate revised ERRs for the
horticulture and irrigation components. An ERR has therefore been re-estimated only for the
forestry activities. The recalculated ERR for forestry based on actual areas planted and anticipated
yields (see Part III, Appendix 7) is 5 percent, if proportionate administrative costs are taken into
account. If these are excluded, the ERR improves to 8.5 percent. This low ERR is due to several
factors: first, the yields estimated at appraisal were very optimistic as explained in para 6.3 above.
The ERR was also depressed by the high plantation establishment costs, which had high labor
content.
6.12        The tree and fodder plantations were too scattered and too thinly populated to make
any discernible impact on improving the environment and, as the individual plantations are not
large enough (only 3-15 ha) to meet the future fuelwood demands of the communities, further
depletion of the remaining forest cover must be expected. On the steep slopes biological soil
conservation measures, which prevent soil particles from being loosened by raindrop impact, were
more successful in preventing further degradation when backed up by physical measures such as V-
ditches. Even though 2,536 ha of pastures were established as against a target of 560 ha,
difficulties in obtaining seed repeatedly restricted this activity. Although V-ditches cut on the
contour helped infiltration and increased the availability of moisture for plant growth, improved
species of grasses and legumes failed to become established satisfactorily. The exclusion of
livestock from grazing areas, however, increased ground cover by indigenous grasses but without
monitoring the improvement in cover with time could not be evaluated.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        Fuelwood  and Fodder. The areas planted for fuelwood and fodder are
insufficient to meet the annual needs of the adjacent villages. Once the plantations are cut, the
communities will be forced to use the natural forest cover until such time as the plantations have
grown enough to be harvested again. An issue that was not satisfactorily addressed by the project
was the failure to introduce a plan for the future management of common properties. A
sustainable, though limited, supply of fodder, fuelwood and grass will depend on the introduction
of adequate management of the resource by the local communities and their ability to limit
exploitation to the regenerative capacity of the vegetation in the plantations.
7.2        Pasture Development. It is unlikely that fertilizer will be applied to pastures and
repeated close cropping may ultimately exhaust the root reserves and have similar effects to over-
grazing. Having established a pasture, the key to sustainable production will lie in good
management. Controlled cutting of protected plots during the course of the project could have
provided some indication of future resource use.
7     GOUP disputes cited statistics.
S     GOUP clarifies that this was mainly due to upward revision of pay scales.



10
7.3        Soil Conservation. Checkdams, and other structures constructed in steep natural
torrent gullies do not provide the farmers with any visible benefits and are unlikely to be
maintained. As they were rarely designed to cope with the large volumes of run-off and debris that
get channelled in the gullies, many will eventually collapse. The estimated 2.4 million man-days
used to construct the structures could have been used more effectively in stabilizing the catchment
area of drainage channels by planting grasses and fodder trees, which have benefitted the farmers.
7.4        Agriculture. The extension staff trained under the project have or are, returning to
their line department where the T&V system of extension has not yet been introduced.
Consequently, T&V extension has now ceased within the project area. There is, thus, little chance
that the improved technological base introduced into the project area will be built on in the
foreseeable future. Steps should be taken by GOUP to give priority to the re-introduction of the
T&V system in Pauri Garhwal and Almora Districts.
7.5        Nurseries. Except at one or two small private horticultural nurseries, production of
all tree and fruit tree seedlings in the project area has ceased, thereby putting in jeopardy
particularly the sustainability of the project-supported horticulture sub-component.
7.6        Livestock. The activities of the NBC appear to be sustainable, provided full cost
recovery measures are introduced so that the improved bulls stationed at the centers can be replaced
at the end of their working lives.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        Through the project the Bank has made a resource contribution towards the
development of Himalayan watersheds. New technologies were introduced and lessons can be
learned which would be invaluable when applied to similar projects in the future.
8.2        The Bank provided a great deal of supervision input which was commensurate with
the high degree of difficulty in implementing this complex project. The supervision missions
included a wide range of pertinent specialists. However, one possible fault was that for the 15
missions, from December 1981 to November 1987, a forester made only four visits; although a
forest economist was included on the three initial missions (pre-appraisal to commissioning). The
lack of a specialist forester during the project preparation stages could possibly have been the cause
of the very optimistic yield predictions included in the SAR. Unfortunately, the supervision effort
up to the MTR seems to have had only minimal impact, probably due to the fragmented nature of
the project management. For example, the missions alerted the project about the excessive
construction of physical conservation structures in upper watershed areas and, as early as 1985,
attention was drawn to new low cost technical innovations such as V-ditches, but these were not
adopted until after the MTR in 1988. In view of the known problems with management in the
early project period, it is difficult to understand why the Bank did not insist on the MTR being
carried out on time.
8.3        After the MTR, supervision was comprehensive and very detailed and useful
supervision reports were produced, which had a positive impact on the performance of the project
during its later years.



11
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        After a shaky start both Central and State Governments performed satisfactorily in
implementation of this project, except that line agencies continued to apply their routine practices
regardless of recommendations made by supervision missions to improve their performance. This
was probable due to poor communication between management and field level and lack of
confidence in initiating new ideas and practices on the ground. Future projects would benefit from
technical assistance to stimulate and direct field-level innovations. A major problem was the
constant rapid turnover of staff, particularly at senior level, coupled with delays in filling key staff
positions.
10. Lessons of Experience
10.1       The lessons that can be learned from the project are:
(a)    the objectives given in the SAR should be clear, unambiguous, and take into
account the difficult conditions in the project area, such that the project area
is of a manageable size;
(b)    in ecosystem rehabilitation projects, it is important to distinguish between the
area that needs to be planted to prevent erosion, and the area that can be
planted. The first covers all the degraded land while the second may be only
that made available by the community. As this project has shown, the land
made available for planting was in small scattered patches. Achievement of
targets based on the latter is unlikely to achieve the overall project objectives;
(c)    to ensure maximum impact, mid-term reviews should not be delayed, but
completed at, or before, half the scheduled time frame of the project has
elapsed;
(d)    the project was handicapped by frequent changes of senior staff and
positions left unfilled for long periods of time. Such occurrences should be
avoided in future projects;
(e)    in terms of identifying with the project, it would probably have been
preferable if the local communities had been involved in project identification
and had been asked to contribute, by, for example, setting up and providing
the labor for nurseries, thus leaving the project to supply free of charge
seeds, polypots, tools, supervision and training;
(f)    the project ended with a community unmotivated and lacking in the ability to
spontaneously expand the project activities on their own initiative. A
campaign to increase community awareness of the goals of the project and to
invite their active participation at the beginning of the project would have
promoted a feeling of involvement in, and commitment to, the various
components;
(g)    where a new technology is being tested, such as the introduction of Vetiver
grass on steep slopes, all project participants should be made aware of this
fact and long-term M&E arranged.



12
11. Project Relationship
11.1      Throughout the project period a good working relationship existed between the
Borrower and the Bank. This was enhanced through the continuity of Bank staff, particularly
during the later stages of the project, and by the high level of technical assistance offered by the
Bank staff during supervision missions.
12. Consulting Services
12.1      The only consultancy was for evaluation, which was particularly weak. This is
reflected in the project costs such that only 6 percent of the amount budgeted for evaluation and
studies was spent.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1      The SAR and loan agreement were generally perceived as sufficient to provide a
useful framework to guide initial implementation. Although the SAR acknowledged that the cause
of environmental degradation in the Himalayan watershed is over-exploitation of natural resources
by the local communities, the SAR objectives did not clearly give priority to meeting the farmers'
objectives and requirements (for food, fodder and fuelwood). One important goal of the project
should have been to provide the communities with the encouragement and skills to be able to
expand, improve and manage their environment themselves after the end of the project.
13.2      Monitoring activities were limited to routine reports of physical and financial
achievements. Crop and forage productivity was not adequately assessed, nor was the survival
and growth of seedlings properly monitored and there was no assessment of the results of the
project's efforts in energy biomass production and energy conservation.
13.3       The project published a large number of useful field manuals and technical pamphlets
and booklets. These are listed in Part III, Appendix 8. Other very useful documents were the
MTR, the supervision reports, particularly those after the MTR and the draft Project Completion
Report produced by the Watershed Management Directorate in March 1993.



13
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Summary
Himalayan Watershed Management Project, Uttar Pradesh
was launched with World Bank Assistance (Loan No.2295 IN) in
1983-84 in Nayar and Panar Watershed in U.P.hill districts.
Primary objective of the project was to attempt to minimise in
selected areas further deterioration of the eco-system caused
by depletion of forest cover, overgrazing, bad land use and
careless road construction. The project implementation was
taken up in only selected sub-watersheds & microwatersheds.
Out of the 9 SWS given in SAR, only 8 SWS were
taken up for treatment. In 1983-84, work started in the
first SWS and in 1984-85 in the second SWS. In 1985-86
work started in 4 more SWS. One SWS each was taken up
in the year 1986-87 and 1988-89 respectively. Thus,work
in the different subwatersheds of the project was started
in a phased manner from 1983-84 to 1988-89. The main
components of the project included Forestry, Soil Conserva-
tion, Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Energy
Conservation and Minor Irrigation. A small component of
drinking water/rainwater harvesting was also included
from 1990-91 on approval from the World Bank team.
The project was initially sanctioned for a period
of 7 years. The project activities were carried out by the
concerned line departments of the Govt. of U.P. from the
year of start in 1983 till 1988. A Mid Term Review (MTR)
of the project was done during 1987-88,jointly by a team of
World Bank, GOI & GOUP. On such review, the project implementa-
tion through the line departments was found to be unsatis-
factory. As per the recommendations made in the MTR report
and later agreed by the World Bank and the Govt."Unified
Command" system for project implementation was introduced
from 1988-89. It was also agreed that the project period
would be further extended on annual basis upto 1993. The
project was completed successfully in Sept. 92.
Contd...



14
At the onset of the project the total cost of the
project was 66.0 million US$. The World Bank assistance
was fixed at 46.2 million US $. It was realised in 1989
that due to unfavourable exchange rate, it would not be
possible to utilize the total amount of the Loan even
in the extended period upto 1993. Therefore, in agreement
with the World Bank, the amount of loan for the project
was reduced to 31.2. MUS $. Persuant to structural adjust-
muents the loan amount was further revised and reduced by
1.0 MUS $ w.e.f. Dec. 1991. Thus the final loap amount for
the project had been fixed at 30.2 MUS $.



15
The Proiect
The project covers 9 Subwatersheds (SWS) and B3 Micro-
watersheds (MWS) involving an area of 3,12,000 ha. The following
table gives the year of commencement of work in different sub-
watersheds and other relevant details
Table-i
Name of watershed  Name of SWS Number of MWS   Area          Year of
I (000ha)    start
1               2             3      I   4           5
Nayar       l.Machlad            4           16.8     1983-84
2.Srinagar          11          36.6     1984-85
3.Rudraprayag       4           15.2     1985-86
4.Randigad          4           16.1     1985-86
5.Nayar Right       2           10.1     1985-86
6.West Nayar        22          76.0     1986-87
(Pashchimi)
7.East Nayar        19          69.5     1988-89
(Purvi)
8.Nayar Left        8           25.3     Not start(
Saryu       9.Panar              9           46.4     1985-86
Total                            83         312.0
In MTR, the programme was modified to 8 subwatersheds with
an area of 286.7 thousand ha.* instead of the original 9 Sub-
watersheds.
(A) Pre-MTR Period
At the onset of the project, GOUP associated,by an order in
Oct.1983 the following Line Departments for implementation and
execution of project activities as per the prevailing work norms
and specifications of their respective departments-
1. Forest
2. Soil Conservation
3. Hlorticulture
4. Animal Husbandry
5. Agriculture
6. Minor Irrigation
* In MTR document, the area of these 8 Subwatersheds
has been eroneously given as 2.47 lakh ha.



16
/\clewIu;tl ilIcremerLtal sUaff was sanctioneld to Lltese
I I ii''  cIf'1,:i  1   eilIl  Ii  l{fliv  p)ropl rl- o l tl   I'  live  p)roje(t  worlkit
enit-usted Lao them iii addition to thielr normal departmental
aictivities  ihe liine (lepa rtments were        I nipiplemeinetirig thie
sectoral project activities under the administrative and
riniancial coniLrol of their respective departments.The
Watershecl Managemirent Organisation was responsible for
plavining, moiiitorinig and evaluation of project activities
wI-il e thie actL'l   executioni was the responsibility of thie
linic depart menLs IThe Iiiie departments were requirecl to
en1sure that the land improvement and all sectoral develop-
mental activilies         in any area in the sub-watershed are
carried ouLt in an integrated manner.
Project implementation in the pre-MTR period was
la;rgely on subwatersihed basis.Though the objective was to
phase out the project activities by selecting critical M1WS
First aimd work on thein and move on to oLlier MWS later,in
pracl-;p , however, the project activities were spread all
over a laige area in the subwatersheds. In additloni to the
overall progra'mme spread-over the SWS, at least one mini-
watershed, each of about 200-500 ha. and comprising of a
cluster oF 2 or 3 vilages was selected In each SWS for
inciiv;iye lrea t  nt I.1hese minilwat.ershedls were to serve as
;I mo0del andl deinolistration For a new integrated approach
1lor a rva dleveloplileilt



17
'Flie projecl Look some time to tale off due to
initial teetliniig problems,like delay In sanction,a]]otmenL
ol hti(Iget and posItioning 01  l saff. TIlere were maniy more
constlrai ts in  Liw  inmplementatLion of the projecL through
I i ie depart ient s ,who perfo[rmecd iin a st ereco-typed manner,
wer e mostlIy working dlepartmeit altly ini an isolated mannier
and Loolk thle project activities as a  mere aciditlonality
lo  their parallel departmental programmes.An inLegrated
project approach could not be proniotecl as there was lack
of co--ordination between different line departments in
implement al ion of sectoral activities. As a result, thie
work was scattered  all over lhe sub watershed  area. Tlhe
La lgtcs oF di[ferent work and( sectoral componenLs were
looked  iint o by the  li ne depart.nients on piecemeal basis.
As a resu1lt, liltIe visible i mnpact could be produced in
th1e SWS andc  muclh was left to be done on integrated  and
participatory  plannlig,co-ordination and execution of
the proc ject.Sinlilarly,suggestions and recommendations
abutL t(ecchnicca1  c hanges anici improvemeit-s could not be
translateJinito  action.  lhe project being of innovative
nature,nmodifications and chaniiges in  Lhe technology  as
well as conLtenits were being made whiile             p]anninig thie
field works,but tihe iine departmenLs couldJ not readily
illcorlporat e Lh' same clue to administraLive probl ems andl
1acCk Of adeq(luate individual inlterests and [lexibili ty
in  tl ici r dIepa)rtLmeltal system of wurking.



18
(1B) lPost MIR P'eriod
'I'lle pro ject had( an ii 11bi I L inec hatif sii for Ml (I 'rermi
Review  to be unclertaken in order to improve the  project
impl crmenVat ioni in the I iglit of  lihe experiences gainled   lhe
joinlt Mid Term  Review was  initiated during 1987-88 ancd the
report was subMiLtted to Govt. of India in March 1988. MtFR
proposals  were final ised in May 1988
As per the decision takcen after thie MTR, basic
clianges were made in the organisational structure, management
;inid impl1emenLLtation strategy of thie project. A  IUniFJed Commanid"
system  of project impl enientation was adopted and the incremental
sLaff was put directly under the administrative control of the
project authority  . Certain modificationswere also made in the
progranime contents after the MTR . The " Unified Commaid ",
introdluced from the year 1988-89, liad two Project Directors
(1l1Ds) at the operationiaJ level who were macle responsible for
Ith1e implementation of the project in the field. A niultidisci-
plinary Leam  consisting of speL.alists of various disciplines
at the level of Dy. Project Directors was constituted  uncder
the PI)s to develop an effective delivery system  keeping in
view tlhe targets ancd integrated approach of the project.



19
J1roic ct (oiLte lLts
A (J(eL ai I ed waLe-rsiie(l ma nagemeiLt pI aII was prepared
bY GOIJ P and(  revi(-wedJ by the  I D A. Appraisal Mission. On
1(h ( aI i ;s  1- lI) is -ev Iew, tlc diiffere-cit coimiponeiAi s were
identLified  and tIleir targets were finalised. Project Reports
f(ur oLt cr S!W)' WeVrC p repa red on  lhe I i nl(s or Lle project report fo
Machli adl SWS.
DuL-ing  lihe course of imp]ementation  and execution  of
thie  projecl, it was observecl that some of the project components
adicI  Lhei r programimie contenits requi red changes/modifi catiolns/
aI djust uiIe't.   liTe observa(ions ref]ected  in  the field  reports
olF tLhe Review  Mi ssion  of Wor lI  Ban k also  necessitated  thlese
Clianges/old i fo icat ions  .  lany i mport ant ch1anges were made in
tLe proc)gramIlml e cont ents alfter  iTR  in  1988  Conside rinig  the
i nniovaL i ve anld pi l ot nature of the pro ject ,thie need  for such
frecluenL  modifications and changes was natural.
The main cause of degradaLion of tile ecosystem in
tlhc  project   area  is over exploitation  of thie resources by
the cver increasinig  humani and caltle  population. An attemlpt
was made to clesi gn and sui tab] y modify  the   project contenits
i  h  a.;i waiy S) ;as tLo meLt the  r-equl celilenllts of thle watershed
communiLi y in  a susLainiable niainier and witliout causinig damage
t o   tUle eco-usy sI eml
Various project componenits are dliscussed  below
I 1 FOR EST RY
Role of the forestry  couiiponieit s is pivo.Lal in  meeting
lie  reqtuir, menIw  of fuel  and Foddeer. In ilie p re- ii R period ,the
works i del)id  i f e  uniler forest ry component il incil !(I fuel wooc



20
anid FoIdde r planLtations and farm forestry.Thle plantation model
;1(lo)I (dI   FOr Fteto I wood 1)Ia nt at i oui ii n   lie (ldg;rad(ed(l reserve  Forests
conlsi sle(l oF 1 600 I)planits per la .whiereas in Civil and Soyam
Fo rest ;t rea:s    2500 p)l aniits per ha. were pIlanited  because such-
areaos are o fLeti (levoicl of tree growth. Thie fodder plantatLions
w:ere  Ik;sC(I 111;m II y o n C,ivi I ancl Soya m a a reas wi th  1000 trees/ha.
Und er far in forestry, foddcer plants were distributed  to  the
; r ile-rs For  l) aint irig on Farm  bu ids oF their ciLi Ivatedc  fields
:;IId oII wase I aIdls
After  (lie mi(- terimi review, the  Fol lowi nig  )l1 antatIon
inodI' I S we re adopt eI :
(1) Otn degraded  forests          -  1600 plants/ha.
(2) On blank areas                 -  2500 plants/ha.
(3) Near vi llages                 -  1)000 pl ants/haa.
Atleast 40% of the plants raised near villages consist
Of fuel and Focdcler species. Improved varielies  of fodder grasses
and legumes were introduced  in  these areas and the production
of local grasses was promioted by use of fertilizers.
I'roduction  of seasonal energy biomass was also
introducedl from 1989 in which annual woody c-rops like Cajanus
c;uj;Ial and sesb)alli ;S spp.   were raised.
Ihe physical targets and achieveinentj of the activities
un(ler forestry  component are given  in  the fol lowing table



21
Item                     Unit  SAR target  MTR target  Achie-  Expendi-
Sept.83 to  (1988 to    vement  ture
. March 88)   1993)                (lakh Rs)
1.Fuel wood               ha.
Plantation
(a) Reserve forest )                                  7590      253.17
(b) Civil forest   )           21,265        -        4759      219.23
2.Fodder Plantation       ha
(a) Civil forest    )-                                2779       72.79
(b) Private land    )           9,185        -        1447       14.07
3.Farm forestry           ha     29938         -        17891        1.75
4.Plantation on degraded
forest land             ha     -             7,130   10656      580.14
5.Plantation in blank
areas                   ha.    -             6,980    9869      711.74
6.Plantation near         ha.    -             5,220    7379      409.53
villages
7.Energy Plantation       ha.    -             -         1086       12.05
(seasonal energy biomass)
In addition to the items mentioned above Rs.505.72 lakh was
spent onraising of nurseries,distribution of plants to farmers etc.
Note:  The SAR targets indicated against item no. 1 to 3 were fixed
for 7 years period by extrapolating data from Machlad SWS.Short
fall shown against SAR targets of item no. 1,2 and 3 is due to
following reasons :
a. These extrapolated SAR targets were-unreclittic.
b. These SAR targets were fixed for a period of 7 years
while work against these targets was carried out for 4 ycars
only,after which SAR targets were revised and replaced by
the new MTR targets.The MTR targets are given against
item no.4,5 and 6.
As is apparent from the above table,at the time of closure c
of the project,total achievement was 63,456 ha,while the initie
SAR target was 60,388 ha.
Soil Conservation
In the pre MTR peirod,soil conservation component consisted
of construction of a series of brushwood/stone checkdams,cratewire
:!arr.rnC5 dror. structures across the nalas. The objective of  these



22
soil conservation structures was to reduce the velocity
of run-off and check erosion in the stream banks and along the
length of the nala.Vegetative reinforcement of these structures
wias also carried out.In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
terracing was also proposed to check soil erosion from the
sloping agricltural terraces. However,this attivity was not taken
up as this was not found cost effective.
After the MTR,some new programmes were added in the soil
conservation cornponent,viz.vegetativerehabilitation of abandoned
terraEces and raising of vegetative barriers of vetiver or other
suitable grass/shrub species on. field boundaries.
The physical targets and achievements under various
activities of soil conservation component are given in Ithe
following table :
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Item                 Unit SAR targets   MTR targets   Achie-  Expen-
(Sept.83 to  (1988 to 1993) vement  diture
March 88)                           (lakh)
1. Brushwood/stone   No.      533          10,170     29717   107.48
checkdams
2. Cratewire dams    No.      490           1,739      7941   211.95
3. Drop structures   No.      180             135       222    14.24
4. Vegetative
rehabilitation of
abandoned terraces ha.    -             6,000       962    21.65
5. Repair of damaged
agricutlure terraces ha    -               550      2914    96.32
RMTR   -                         880
In addition to the items mentioned above,stabilisation of
slips,planting of vetiver on terrace bunds, in-situ moisture
conservation,maintenance of old structures etc was also carried
out. Expenditure on these items was Rs.63.68 lakh. Construction
of checkdams,cratewire dams and drop structures was carried out
according to the treatment plans of  the nalas. Accordingly,a
number of small low cost structures were constructed,instead of a
fewbig and costly structures. It explains the more than double
achievements. In the case of vegetative rehabilitation of abandoned-



23
terraces the achievemnents fell short of MTR targets due to thle
problem of absentee land lords.
Proper selection of sites for soil conservation structures
A~t
was always stressed upon.iWhere nala was  straight with minimun
width and firm banks was preferred for such structures. Series of
small, low cost clheck dams were constructed. The wing walls of the
check dams were "keyed- in" with the firm banks.Where the /velocity
of wiater was too much, counter check dams were designed. Designing
of spillway was done as per the rule of thumb and height was mostly
restricted to 40-60 cm. These structures were strengthened through
vegetative measures. When the structures got siltecl-up,cuttings and
seedlings of suitable species were planted up to stabilise the
trapped silt. These structures helped considerably in checking
erosion of nala beds and stream 'banks.
Iiorticulture
The role of horticulture in providing a permanent vegetal
cover alongwith an alternative land use in the erosion-prone hill
slopes can not be over-emphasised. The following programnmes were
included in the project :
(1) Top working-Large scale grafting of cultivated high
yielding varieties of Pear on the trees of Mehal (wild pear
which is found largely in groves in  the community land
and in the marginal lands in agricultural fields was
carried out.
(2) Planting of new orchards,mainly citrus was successful.
(3) Raising of individual orchards - In the intial years,this
activity was to be carried out by providing loans to
individuals at a very low rate of interest. But this could
not find favour with the local people.Later on the modus
operendi of this activity was changed and the work was donc
departmentally on private lands but in a limited 
restricted manner.



24
(4)  Rejuvenation of old orchards - Pruning,cleaning,training,
fertilizer application, soil working,moisture conservation
and other cultural operation techniques were adopted to
rejuvenate those existing old orchards where yield had gone
down due to lack of maintenance, diseases etc.
(5) Homestead orchards - Fruit plants were distributed to
farmers who were willing to plant and maintain them around
their homestead used as kitchen garden.
(6) Horticulture tools - In the MTR proposals,distribution of
horticultural tools was included as an additional item.
The targets and achievements under these activities are
summarised below
Item                   Unit SAR targets  MTR target Achie   Expen-
(Sept.83 to (1988 to    vement  diture
March 88)    1993)                (lakh Rs
-------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Top working         ha.      1,369     3,447       1,078   30.87
2. Individual orchards ha.        508        862      2,389   75.49
3. Rejuvenation         ha.       -          386      1,186   44.71
4. Homestead orchards '000'No.    -          111      0,605   21.36
5. Horticultural tools sets       -          105      5,065   12.36
Training of farmers,establishment of elite gardens,planting
Of ol;ve,raising of horticultural nursery and publicity etc was
also carried out. A sum of Rs.16.15 lakh was spent on these items.
Top working was donein Mehal trees found in groves on
farmers'land as per their availability. Response of farmers towards
0oCK0r.1. ctcs Q4C11q- %1i C'. C''o.VV*C<t,
establishemnt of individualAexceeded the MTR targets.
Minor Irrigation
In order to fully utilize the irrigation potential available
in the  project area and also to provide an incentive for   local
people to adopt the various project activities,a small component
of minor irrigation was included in the project.It comprised of -
(a) Lining of existing old Kutcha irrigation channels with
cement mortar to improve water use and enhance the
efficiency of irrigation and the command area ; and



25
(b) Construction of storage tanks by tapping the
unutilized springs for irrigation purpose.
World Bank made the reimbursement of expenditure incurred
on minor irrigation only upto 1988. After the MTR,the expenditure
on minor irrigation component was continued and financed by GOUP
from its own resources.
The targets and achievements under this component were as
below :
Item                   Unit  SAR target    MTR targets Achie- Exp-
(Sept.83 to (1988-1993) vement endi-
March 88)                       ture
-----------------------------------------------------------------
1. Irrigation channels   Km       87           -       88.5  139.19
2. Storage tanks         No.      155          -       901    83.23
-----------------------------------------------------------------
In addition to above a sum of Rs.12.15 lakh was spent
on maintenance of old channels and tanks. Initially,only masonary
tanks were being constructed,l forrain water harvesting.This is
reflected in the physical achievements shown above.
Agriculture
In the initial years, the agriculture-component of !the
project consijted of high yielding and iimproved seed exchange
programme and field trials of paddy,Soyabean and Wheat. Some
women motivators wsere engaged for extension of new technology
amongst the women folk. The motivators were imparted training
on project orientation. Training proramme3were also organised
for the staff of the line departmentsthat worked in the project
area in departmental work programme.Construction of input storage
godowns was also envisaged.
From 1986-87,the seed exchange programme was replaced by sees
minikit distribution . The extension work through women motivators
engaged on casual and part time basis did not prove to be effective
and had to be phased out as per :WB Mission's recommendations. At the
instance of World Bank a full fledged Training & Visit ( T & V)
proramrne was introduced in the project in 1986-87 to take over thle
extension work and transfer of technology and know-how to the
farmers.



26
The various activities taken up under the agriculture
component were reviewd during MTR and certain new items were
added. The activities include :
(1) Field trials of paddy,soyabean and 'wheat
(2) Distribution of minikits of paddy,soyabean and wheat.
(3) Construction of input stor,age godowns
(4) Distribution of improved agricultural implements
(5) Training & Visit Programme.
The project had been facing a recurring problem of
non-availability of seeds of HYV in required quantity,especially
that of upland variety. Hence,)a seed multiplication programme
was also introduce4in 1989 and instead of distributing seed
minikits to the farmers,'-hey were provided with the foundation
seed for multiplication in their fields.The technical support
was provided by the project. The seed thus produced was bought-
back for distribution in the project area or was exchanged
within the farmers themselves.
The targets and achievements under different items have
been listed below
Item                 Unit SAR target  MTR target Achieve- Expendi-
(Sept.83 to 1988-1993  ment      ture
March 88)                        (Lakh Rs)
------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Field trials       No.    6,266    1,43,500  1,82,169  122.43
2. Seed Minikits      No.   17,122       13,000    20,599   20.85
3. Input godowns      No.        39          29         51   48.44
4. Improved           No.       -        10,400  1,21,959   79.42
Implements
In addition to the items mentioned above,training and visit
programme was also run in the project area.An expenditure of
about Rs.38.24 lakh was incurred on T & V,extension material,
motivators,equipment,furniture,demonstrations,seed production
centres etc. The seed multiplication programme of the project
solved the problem of non-availability of HYV seeds which
resulted in higher achievements under field trials and seed
minikit programme. A number of low-cost,location specific,small,



27
improved implements like serrated sickles etc were introduced
amongst the farmers,which are reflected in the table given
above.
The efforts put in by the project team have been quite
effective.Crop yields have 'been increased by 50% as about 80%
of the target beneficiaries are growing high yielding varieties
of rice,wheat and other crops using small quantities of
fertilizers.
Animal Husbandry
Initially the programme contents of animal husbandry
component consisted of cattle exchange programme,supply of
feed and strengthening of veterinary hospitals/dispensaries/
bull centres. Due to various practical difficulties, the cattle
exchange programme was dropped from 1985-86. It was replaced
by a livestock development programme consisting of cattle bread
improvement through artificial insernination,natural breeding
centres, castration of scrub bulls, supply of concentrates to
cross-bred heifers, establishemnt of cow-buffalo units etc.
An ambitious proqramme for building up of infrastructure for
cattle development and after-care was also outlined consisting
of strengthening of veterinary hospitals/stockman centres/
bull centres, establishment of liquid nitrogen plant,cattle
feed milling plant,construction of feed and fodder stores with
A.I. labs, establishment of bull-calf rearing centres etc.
After the MTR, the animal husbandry component was further
streamlined with emphasis on upgradation of!local cattle through
Natural Breeding Centres (NBC) castration of scrub bulls,
iiimproverment in feed and fodder utilisation througlh supply of
equipment,increase in  production of green fodder through
pasture development and fodder minikit distribution etc.
V-ditches cut on the contour under pasture development helped
infiltration and increased available moisture for plant growth.
Vetiver grass planted on contour to slow down run off velocity
showed poor growth after three years which needs close
monitoring.Love grass has formed dense clumps while leguminous
styloxanthes failed to establish.



28
The targets and achievements under different activities ar
given below :
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Item               Unit  SAR target   MTR target  Achieve Expendi-
(Sept.83  to  (1988-1993)  ment   ture
March 88)                        (lakh Rs)
-------------------------------------------------------------------_
1. Cattle exchange    No.    3,030         -       250 )
and supply of feed        3,030         -       250 )   14.20
(dropped in 85-86)
2. Strengthening of
vet.Hosp/SMC/Bull  No.       35         -        28      15.99
Centre
3. A.I facilities in
(a) Vet.hospital   No.    -                      10       5.31
(b) SM centres    No.     -             -        13       1.68
4. NBC Deptt.pattern  No.    -             20       36    133.63
5. NBC Darinda pattern No.   -             -       114      61.94
6. Feed & fodder store No.   -             -        21      54.12
7.Pasture development  No.   -             560    3649    193.45
8. Concentrate to CB
heifers (00 calf days) Nos -            -      5371      60.29
9. Fodder minikits   No.     -             44500 80750      63.72
10.Liquid Nitrogen plant No. -             -         2      37.89
11.Castration        No.     -             -    23349        5.07
12.Supply of milch cattle No. -                    190      17.69
13.Feed & fodder utilisation
through supply of
(a) Chaff cutters  No.    -             2,000 1191       20.49
(b) Thrashers     No.     -             20       89      18.81
(c)  Feed trough   No.    -             -      7128      12.93
(d) Grass choppers No.    -             -      4700       1.84
14. Purchase of bulls  No.    -                    245      11.50
In addition to above,Rs.55.64 lakh were spent on items
like purchase of liquid Nitrogen,training,animal health,equipment
cattle units,cattle crushes,lay inseminations etc.



29
In order to shift the pressure of cattle population
fromforests, more stress was laid on pasture development
and introduction of cultivated fodder. Hence,the achieverenet
under pasture development and fodder minikit distribution
were higher than the targets given in MTR .
The targets for items like supply of concentrate to
crossbred heifers,castration of scrub bulls etc. were fixed
annually after proper survey to find out the numberAc.b.
heifers and scrub bulls. The targets related to items like
implements/equipment for better feed and fodder utilisation
depended upon the response received from the villagers.
As mentioned above,cattle exchange programme was
dropped in 1985-86. Strengthening of veterinary hlospitals
./SMC/Bull Centres,artificial insemination facilities
in veterinary Hospitals/SMC,establishment of liquid Nitrogen Plant
etc.Adone by the line (Animal lHusbandry) department. These
items were excluded in MTR and activity under these
items was carried out by line department.



30
Energy Conservation
Though this component was not included in the
SAR,during the course of project implementation it was felt
that alternate souYes of energy and energy saving devices could
play an important role in reducing pressure on forests for
fuelwood. The World Bank Review Mission also agreed to the
inclusion of appropriate energy saving devices in the pr'oject
programme vide Mission's field report (May 27 June 6,1986)
para 13. Installation of smokeless chulhas was started in
1986-87 and installation of biogas plants, distribution of
solar cookers and improved wood stoves was started in 1987-88
on an experimental basis . The response of local population
towards the effective use of solar cookers was not encouraging.
Hence this item was dropped in that year only and only 350
solar cookers were distributed. The other three items were
continued in post MTR period also. Distribution of pressure
cookers as energy saving equipment and kerosine stoves as alternate.
source of fuel was also undertaken in a limited scale. The
objective was to reduce pressure on the forests for fuelwood,
especially in the problem areas.
The targets and achievements under this component are
given below :
Item               Unit  SAR target    MTR target   Achie-  Expen-
(Sept.83 to   (1988-1993)  vement  diture
March 88)
1. Smokeless chulhas No.    -               -        8,739   16.70
2. Improve4woodstoves No.   -               -       43,416   11.24
3. Biogas plants      No.                              694   55.98
4. Solar/Pressure    No.    -                           748    2.82
Cookers
5. Kerosine stoves   No.    -               -        4,402    4.30
6. Community stoves  No.    -                           464    2.33
--  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  -



31
Drinking Water Supply
The original project proposals also comprised of
a minor irrigation component in which construction of masonary
water storage tanks was provided for.These tanks were used by
the villagers for irrigation in their homesteads for growing
vegetables etc. as well as catered for supply of drinking water
to the cattle and for household use. The World Bank supported
the programme of minor irrigation only upto 1987-88.
Later on, the World Bank agreed to support a programme
related to drinking water supply for house-hold use and for
cattle needs vide Mission's field report (Dec.4 to 8,1989)
para 98. This small programme was started from 1990-91.
Construction of masonary tanks, LDP lined water harvesting
tanks, repair of pipelines, hand pumps and other water
resources and construction of pucca dams was undertaken in
this programme.
A brief account of the targets and
achievement is given below
Item                Unit SAR        MTR     Achieve-  Expenditur
target    target  ment        (Lakh Rs.)
(Sept.83  (1988-
to     1993)
March88)                        . __._
1. Water tank             No.    -        -        265       65.51
2. Water harvesting
tanks                  ,,      -       -        928      41.93
3. Repair of pipe         LS      -       -        LS        45.01
lines,fland pump
and other water
resources
4. Construction of        No.    -        -        178       44.49
Pucca Dam



32
Centre of Excellence (C.O.E.)
During the Mid-Term-Review of the
project, development of the two "Centres of
Excellence" of about 5000 ha. in extent, one
in Nayar area (Garhwal Region) and another in
Panar sub watershed area (Kumaon Region) was
considered and the work was entrusted to be
implemented under the leadership of Dy.Commissioner
Pauri and Almora respectively.
Irgad MWS in West Nayar SWS (Pauri) and
Sindhyagad MWS in Panar SWS (Almora) was selected
for this purpose. A pool of Ns. 1.17 crore each
was placed at the disposal of the Dy.Commissioners.
Detailed work programmeswere prepared by the
Watershed Management administration for the
C.O.E. The work was started in 1988-89 and
continued for sometime in 1989-90 also. Later on
it was realised that there was ambiguity in
the role of Dy. Commissioners



33
and the froject administration and GOUP issued a Govt4
Order by wlichA role of the Dy. Commissioners in
implementation of prograpimes in COE was tLaken away.It
was deci(led Lhat the areas taken under the two COEs would
also be treated by the Watershed Management I'roject and
the worics completed by the district administration will be
maaintai ned by the project
After the M1'R of the project, the strategy of
iniplemienitaLion or tile project lhad been chiangecd ancd to
make the impact of project activities more visible,
the project work activities were concentrated in some
selected mini and niicrowatersheds. Multidisciplinary teams
were constituted to handle various aspects of project
activities.
Wheni thie COEs were transferred back to the project
adnministration, these two MWS were taken up as selected
MWS for intensive and concenitrated working and different
project acLivities were carried out in an inLegrated maniner.
A comprelhenisive villagewise pl]an was prepared in whiich
fuel and( focidler requl reients were cal ciii ated for each
village andl proposals were made Lo meet the deficit of
tilese items by developing new or alternate resources of
fuel ancd fodider and by proper nianagemileniL of cattle popul a-
Lion andl available supplies of fuel and fodder.
Research
In a pil ot project of thi s naLure thie techni cal
linkages for constant updating and ininovationis are of
vilal i mportance .A research componenLt was provided in
the project. Keeping in view  thie shorL duration of tLhe
project, the policy has been to utilize the "off the-shielf"
techinology fr-oin tihe existing  research institutions with in
and out side the project area. 'I'he research  institsutLions
li lke    v.R 1.    Dehra Dun,  CSVI(AR'ri  ,      Dehradun, Indian
lInsL it ILCe of Remote Sensing, Dehradull, GII'UA'I' P'ant N agar



34
and their Hill Campus at Ranichauri,VPKAS(Vivekanand Lab) Almora,
Survey of India Dehradun. Forest Survey of India,Dehradun,resea bh
wing of UP Forest Deptt.and other research institutes were activey
associated and efforts were made to make use of available technology
developed by these.
Certain specific problems related to propagation of shrub
species, establishment and management of pastures, studies on
carrying capacity of pastures, trials of vetiver etc. were
entrusted to these institutions and adequate funds for the
purpose were made available.
VPKAS Almora provided excellent support to the project
in its seed multiplication programme. VPKAS Almora and GBPUAT Hill
Campus Ranichauri were actively associated in transfer of technology
through Training and visit programme.
The project itself carried out hydrological studies in
some miniwatersheds and collected data related to run-off and
silt load, propagation and multiplication of planting stock of
khus, introduction of olive, introduction of high yielding
varieties of improved palatable fodder grasses and legumes,
introduction of exotic varieties of peaches and citrus etc.
The outlay earmarked for research component was
Rs. 16 lakh in SAR and Rs. 14 lakh in MTR. Actual expenditure
was Is. 32.38 lakh.
Training
A full fledged Training and Visit(T&V) programme was
started in the project in 1986-87 as per the recommendation of
the World Bank review team vide their field report (January 1986)
para 24 and Aug. 11-15 report. Regular fortnightly trainings and
monthly workshops were organised for the T&V staff who in turn
disseminated the technology to the farmers.
To improve the technical capability of the project
staff, short in-services trainings were organised for the
officers and subordinates in various institutions such
as FRI Dehra Dun, CSWCRTI Dehra Dun, IIRS Dehra Dun,



35
IV;liuil ok ti slhi kessh  (;IIABlA  Pant Na par and l lie I r Ii III Campus
a I Raniclatil i, Fxtens ion   Iraiiiiig InstisLute  B3akshi Ka 'Ialab
(I..Lckiow) , [IaLa InsLiLute of Management Pune, DNES Delhi eLc.
LcolLS Part icKati Ion
I rlo rts we re m;dcle lo  associat,v a 1d livolv  e
tihe locala  popt'ilatLion, especially  women and YouLih organi saLions
in all lhe prot jecc  actlivilies righit rroiii tie pIlannilnig stage
.h rough .     I 11 imlplelviiLatioi, ni ailtLenia nce, beiiefiL slharilig and
future  sustainied managemenLt  systel. Local w;umen andi youth
)r-paIl i s:il i i)iv; wt r(* cit r us:;t ed wi H    lh e i 1n I)  emcni.ni at I onl or
val-ious field works and JaLer on wiLh the mainLenanice of
natural resources and assets crealed under the project.
lhere are not niany Non Govt. Organisalions(NGO's)
i ii hlie projec L are a   I'The project  iel ped I n formatLI on anJd
registration- of quite a few new Mlalhila Mlangal Dals and
act i vated tlihe existing  Onies.
Illi  sup)porL  of NGOs was sought  in carrying out
moliviiation work and a few trai iiiig& camps and imoti.vat Il camp,s
werc organised wiLi Lhte hielp of NGOs. N(;Os were also entrusted
wi1h cerlain project activities such as raising seedli ngs,
iiistallatLion of smokeless chulihas etc.
To involve Lihe people at grassroot  level, micro-
waLershied commiLLees were formed In each selecLed and
operational MWS witlh representation of local farmers,people's
rc-presenl:aLioiis,  ii ie department. officials, project teani,
NGOs anidl otlher enLilusi asti c members of the vi Tl age society.
Montlily meeLti lgS of the MWS comii t ecs were condciucted
reogilarly in each selIected MW1S or- a giveni daLe  whele  eLle
project programmes were discussed at length. lIhe [ol Iowl ng
I i sit-d 1 meivihe s we( e il vl ted to pa rLiciipate  in thiese  titotlh Ily
mnceLiiigs or MWS  conileltees
1  BI 1i t uc  I'-ML rikl
2. Gra;m tradtliaris of tlie MWS
. Maili IA  1ang; 1I)-II
, 1. Yt vnk Maiia I lal D



36
5. NGOs
6. Aniy otiher local resi dent interested in thie
project programnmes.
tIn these meetirigs, assessment of problems
of tlhe area, especially those related to resource
ii a na~c le id a.,Id I arlI uSe were cli scussed a iid suggest iolis
of tlhe participants were obtained to formulate "people's
1) hII;'"  whlicIh was dliscussed at length to reach an agreed
W( ) I 1< j) r-ugQ r a iiilirle.
Tle FormL  of MWS comm ittee was also utilizecl
for review of progress during impl ementation of the
progralmlmies, selection of beneficiaries' selection of sites,
conltril)Ltion of the local population in a given activilty,
review of quality of work and other items. rhis exercise
lias helped tihe project staff in making relevant adjustments
in L1e approach anid strategy of project Implementation
keepi ng i n vi ew Lihe broad phi I osopthy of the project.
Moni tori ng ari Evaluation
Ilhe project i inple menLi aLl on was r egul ati y monltored
at the level of Chiief Project Director, Secretary Uttaranchal
Vikas Viblhag COUP and at: OI level. Field level moniitorinig
w.as donie by regular inspections, field visits, discussions
and feed back from tihe vil] age level.
W4orld Bank fielded supervision Mlissions twice a
year to moniitor the progress andl to idenitify the wealc
linkages. The field reports submittLed by the World Bank
Missions were of great lielp to project authorities in
gLli Cl i 11i and  li rect i ig the projecl i mnpl  emient a I on.
'lie work of evaluat ion of the project was
enltrusted by  National Watershed Development Policy2?NWDPCT
through Watershed Development Council (WDC) of Department
of Agriculture & Cooperation, GOI tO Uttar Pradesh
Development system Corporation (UPDESCO),GOUP undertaking



37
wh ich4iin inde'penddent agency. UPDI)I,SCO was to coIndtUct
Icat il e I    surveys  in all  Llie subwaLershecis  in Ltiree
st agesi , vi v..  beticI ii itrk survey  I ii LI ic zeirt; ,  il dl e rm  survey
ii Llhe 3rd year- o[ Ll1   project and final  evaluationi in
(I b   Inialt year ol' th.le  project.  Il)ue to  cert aill adm1i6ni sira-
livc  p robIleuis, Lhe Lii e sciheclulIc Itor Ll ese soLI-veyS COUld
not lbe strictly a(dllered to. hlowever, UPDESCO hiave since
c01111)1lc(l Itlhc  jol) ;issi gne(d lo  Lltemll Mid ha;IVV subillitLed
(hi' draft fiiial  evaluation  reports for all  Lhe SWS.These
reports were used during implementation of the project.
Recommendations made in these reports were useful in
improving project activities.



38
!Ixperi_ences and Lessons Learned
Hi mal ayan Watershed Managenienit ProjecL was
a pilol projectl of early nineteeni eighities in which,perhaps
for thie first time, an integrated multidisciplinary approach
for treatmenLt of siiiall unit area and sectoral developmerit on
waLershedis basis was taken up in the Western Hlimalayan region.
I'lle project component and miethiodology of projecL iniplemenLa-
Lioni has lveeii i:iiiovatlve in nature. Ihlus tLle  ii tial years*
of thie project saw many repid changes in the methodology
and Lechnologiciil packages. Durling nilne years of project:
implementation certain iteins were altogether deleted while
some components of work           activities were completely
chan_ged. Sii Ilarly there were experi ilentations with tle
organi sational structure as well and it was only after the
Mid  lerm Review (MTR) that the "Unified Cominand" syslem was
I nt roduced.
The evolution of the project through its
9 yea r s olh Imniple  menLtaLion , thle experieences galined anid
thle lessons learned have been summarised below
1 .    Coonsicleri ng thiat tile project was of one of thie
first of its nalure, the area coverage of the
pr-oject was very large in extent,covering over
3000 Sq.Knm. in eight sub-watersheds. No established
ancd tried technology package were at hand which could
be replicated from the very onset of thie project
implementation. The project contents as envisaged in
thie project report of Machllad SWS were only to be
LesLed on grounlid and needed a thoroughi scrutiny
at fieldl level. ut would have been pragimiatic to
field Lest thie prescription1s first in tile Mlacihlad
SWS, it\ smialler area and brinig about suitable
mod(lficiions in tihe programmiile contenits lo be
able to chalk out appropriaLe strategy with finer
details and carry out the project activities in a
systeniatic mannier over othier subwatersheds,at  the
same Li ime concentra:ting the efforts in a few selected
MWS only.



39
2.     'Ihe aspecL relaLed to existenice and availability
of basic infra-structure was not properly looked
into whille commissioning new SWS areasunder the
pi)ojcCL s. As a resull, thougih new SWS were taken up
for treatment and works were started from the
year - Onie, thie i nfra-sL ructure requi red for smootl
runninig of the projecL had Lo be developed over
a long period which adversely affected thie area
tLreatnient operations. Ihere should have been a
provision of - 1 year and 0 (zero) year for
preparatory work and development of infra-structure.
3.     IL: was later realised that the project was started
with a wronig note in 1983-84 on the preimises of
line-department concept whicih was not found in tune
withi thie project approach. It was tCoo much to expect
Lhe line departments to carry out the additional job
assigned to them with zeal and enthusiasm required
in an innovative project of tlis natur-e. Moreover,
the line departnients were tied-up with their stereo-
typed departmental rules, norms and procedures and
could not takce on readily t-he innovations required
in the project. As a result the project could not
gaini momentuLim. It was only after the MrR in 1988-
after a lapse of five years- that a more dynamic
approach towar-ds project execution was acloplted In
the fo imi of 'Unified Comimiianid'' sysLem . Ihe switcliover
to unified command system gave a discernible impetus
to the project both in qualitative as well as
quantitative terms.
4.     D)etailed plan for the development of one of thie
SWS (Machlacd) was prepared by thle project authlorities,
COUP and reviewed by thie IDA Appraisal Mission. On
the basis of this review, targets of different compo-
nents for the whole project area (Nayar and Panar)
were finalised. Targets so fliialised and mentioned
in thle StR were merely a proportionate  projection
of Lhe Macl,lad SWS targets. Oni implementat:ion of



40
thle work act i vi ties in Lhe field, Lhi s piroved to
be c-rronieous because tile I and use pattern in other
SWS; dij rrered substantLIally  Froni that oF Machl ad SWS.
Ihus Llte LargeLs envisaged in the SAR proved to be
unrealistic. It was especially so in case of forestry
comiponeiit whiich were revised and miodified laler on.
5.      Some of  lhe projecL aclivities i(eliil fied in the
original teciihnological package as mentionied in
SAR were later found Lo be fraughiL with a numilber
ol aidministraLtive aiicl oiperatioial pjrobl ems. They
were suitably modi.fied or had to be abandoned
altogether. CalLle exchange programme, conimunity
orchardis, individual orchards proposed Lo be
developed on soft loan basis, seed exchange
progranimime, women motivators  , fodder plantation
in privately owned lands were some such activities.
6 .     A/  e nti rel y new progi amiinie I n Aniiial lusbaiicdry
Component had to be chal ked out wheni It became
evidenL after Lhe fi rst Lwo years *haL Llte
"CattL]e-exchange" can noL conLiniue due to administra-
Live and operational probleems associated with it.
In the revised prograninie, caLLIe breed i mprovement
was prop)osed th'bugh artificial insemination. Lay-
inseminaLors were engaged for A.I. work and as lhere
was no infrastructure available in Lhe project area
for A.I. facililies, installation of liquid Nitrogen
plants For this purpose was also proposecl. Till the
infrasLrucLure could develop, liquid Nitrogen and
dee( ) f l o  nI seLInIe  was tlo he purchIased F rofr   out si de .
Work on A.I. Programimue continLued  froiii 1985-86 lo
1987-88 and it was found that the resulls were
i-lot euicouragl uig. lHence Lhi s programimie was a I so
excluded from  the project activities froml 1988.
1.      A 11W    r of chianges and Frequent modifications
II 1   project contents as inenLioned In Llte
rore)uiinp 1e)ras  Idi  lihimpoper-  I.-he  nmnrilih riiiiini tig



41
of the project during the initial years. It was
difficult,  for the fielId staff to reorl ent themselves
to the rapid successive changes as it needed
consirlelyable time to get acquainlecd  with the changed
progt) I ;I IIII tEl .
81.     \As I) r 1- SAI ol thie prorjt'C, *e fuie I aiid fodder
requi renientl was aimed to be met solely by raising
tree plantations. Tree planlation have long gestation
period and( tlhe returns froi themil accrue only after
10 or 15 years of protection and management. It was
only in Lile later years that focldcer grass,legumes
and pasture development was incorporated in the
prograinnie .
9.       Livestock management in tlhe projecl area was taken-
up in SAR with a unidirectional approach,viz,notionIal
reduction in thie number of unproductive cattle tLhrough
a limited cattle exchange programme. Multipronged
approach of livestocic management thiroughi (a) cattle
breecd improvement, (b) quantiLtalive and qualitative
increase in fodder availability throughi pasture
development and fodder cultivaLion; and (c) better
fodder utilization and reduction in wastage of
available fodder was not adopted from tlhe very
beginniing of the project. Only at a much later
stage, a niore&rational and realistic approach was
adopted to reduce the very high grazing pressure
on open grazing grounds.
10.      An important aspect which was not properly looked
into was " instiLution-building" during the project
implemiienLation period. As a resulL, somile difficulties
were experienced al the tinme of handi ng over of the
assets createcl by the project to different institutionr
and line clepartments. Much reliance was placed on the
existing institutions for the post-project management
of thie resources and the assets developed/created
during thie    -jecl implementation. The wealknesses
of th& existing institulions like Gram Sabhas came



42
to fore once the process of handing over of the
assets had started and in some cases these
institutions could exercise little control over
thie protection, maintenance and benefit sharing.
It is felt Lhat the development of strong
Zlike van        instiLutionsZat local level should be taken up
Panchayats     si IIultanieously while tile project Is implemented.
'Ihe i nsLituLionis so developed over a number of
yc;ars may Lhen take over tlhe assets created/
developed for future management. '[hey may also
be enlrusted with the job of protection, maintenance
and(l benefit sharing aidl woulcl ideally take over
other functions of the project officials as well
at local level in the post-project period.



43
World Bank's Performanice
WIn d WIl;lilk Iias  WeeaI acLively  Involve(d  ill L11Cw
project throughout its formulaLion and implemenLation
!; P;l,aI III    ovIC- a  er i o(1 n  m iore thaln  9 years. F'I'le initLial
projecL proposals as iientiLoiled iii Llw SAR had a number of
drawbacks ail( 11had to be rectli H ied aL various stages. 'I'lhe
Worl(d Baankl regularly  fielded  iLs six  monilly/periodical
Supervision Missions LoUle project area. During the field
visits, Lhe World Bank specialists acquainted themselves
wiLtl thie terrain, its peculiar problems and the efforts
being made by the project to overcome them. There was a
free exchiange of views amongst thie project personnel ,GOI Officials
Worl cl iank teain and the local popul alion. 'I'lle field visits
were invariably followed by a "wrap-up" meetinig at highi
I evel wiLh GOUI. 'I'ii s enabl ed tile teanil to know the views
of GOUIP on various issues which came up during tlhe team's
fiel(i visi L. The many changes In Llte project coil:Uents atid
in thie organisational  strucLure came out as a result of
these field  visits, discussions at lhe field  level and
at GOUP level. 'I'lTe contents of the Field Reports su)bmil tted
by tLie Supervision Mission after each of their field  visils
were incdicaLive of thie interesL and concern shiown by tLhe teams.
Supervision Missions1pr-ovidied amiple support to thle project.
llowever, there were cerlai n issues, whiere Lhe
World Bank could not conle up with clear cut and spe'cific
proposals or recommendlations for cuiLte somime ltime, .especially
duri ng Lhe initial years. As a resul tLIhere were large numilber
of dceviations froi the original SAR proposals for many
years of projecL i mplementation and( somle of thie programnies
hiad to l)e substanLially modifiecl or alteredl alLogetLler.
SoniC Of Lthese issuLes have been ouLl i ned i n Llie preceedi ng
paras. Frequent changes in tihe project  activiLties and Lihe
straLegy  resulted in  lack of clarity amongst thle staff
at tLhe cutting edge. For example,at one stage the concept



44
of developing one or two miniwatersheds in each SWS was taken up
and it was proposed to try to saturate these miniwatersheds while
the project activities continued to be spread over the whole
and large project area of the SWS. While planning for the mini-
watersheds proper accounting for the fuel fodder balance and
feasibility of the recommendations was not taken into account.As
a result the expercise remained a theoretical one. In the planning
of this project GOUP,GOI b World Bank were involved. This was the
first project of this nature.Experience gained in this project has
helped in improving this as well as other projects.
Some of the recommendations of the World Bank were too
generalized.Location specific technologies were not advocated in
such cases. Introduction of vetiver on a large scale was advocated
and emphasised without ascertaining its acceptability in the farmer
conmunity and its suitability in higher altitudes. Problems arising
from the Sar system of cultivation in the hills were also not
taken into account. Introduction of fruits with low keeping quality
could have been advocated in the areas near roadside while introduc-
tion of nuts might have been prescribed for distant locations.
The World Bank team advocated the introduction of Vetiver
and recommended the transportation of Vetiver root stock from Tarai
region for direct transplanting in the project area. It entailed
lot of problems during the monsoon season. Establishment of Vetiver
nurseries in the project area in the initial years would have
been a better approach as it could have made the planting stock
available near the planting site in the subsequent years. Infact,
the project worked on this strategy in the later years.
Mission suggested the import of grass and legume
seeds for pasture development. The suggestion was not found
to be a practical one and could not be translated into practice
inspite of best efforts. A more practical approach would
have been to establish nurseries and seed production centres
in the adjascent areas. Project endeavoured in this direction
and got this work later started in Pashulok farm.



45
After a I;apse of two or- tLiree years wheln thie
important role of shrubs in providing vegetal cover in the
refractory project areas 1had emerged,the World Bank team
started laying great emphasis towards planting of local shrub
speci.es in the project. Proven technology for this was not
available and thie efforts matle by Lle project sLaff in thiis
direction on an experimental basis did not give encouraging
results. The project associated GBPUAT Hill Campus, Ranichauri.
i.n developing techinology for regenerationi of sirubs. But
the results reporLed from the experimental plots of the Hill
Campus could not be replicated in actual field condiLions
in the project area.
Contour ploughinig and line sowing were somie of thie
generalised recommendations of the World Bank team which
could be adopted only on a limi.ted scale in the valley areas
where the terraces are comparatively broader. In the narrow
strip like terraces this could be followed in a limited
scale.



46
-     Perforimance of the Project Team and COUP
It i s evident from  the details given In the
preceeding pages, that the project has under-gone drastic
changes tlhroughlouLt the period of its implementation. lhe
organisational set-up, the met:hodologies, the project
contents and the strategy, all these had to be modified,
a I Lere( , updaLed anmd reviewed froui time to timiie. But
for the dynamic approach of the project team anid GOUP,
this would have resulted in more problems. Changes in the
programmes were rapidly assimilated and the technical
recommendationis of the World Bank Review teams were given
due weightage. After an initial set-backc due to teething
problems and contant changes in the technological package,
the progress of the project had been quite encouraging.
After the MTR, the approach and the delivery
system was drastically modified. Still, a smoothi switchiover
from "line department" sysLem of working to "Unified
Coniniand" system amply demonstrated tilat GOUP provided
excelIent support to the project. rhe modifications
anld additions in the project activities were also well
supported by GOUP.
These were cert(ain issues where a more pragmatic
approach would have helped better. Some of these are
enumerated below:
I .        It took experimentation for a period of five
years anid exhaustive deliberations clurinig M1R to
accept ancl adopt a "Unified Comimianid" approach.
Though "Unified Command" system  is also not
free From  pil-falls, iL would have cerLainly
helped if adopted after only fewer initial years.
2.         Budgetary provisions remained adequate throughout
except for the last years of the project which
made     Lfference in the performance at field
Ic ve I



47
3.       COUP issued a Govt. Order in 1983 in which
procedures were laid down for selection of
staff for posting in tihe projecL. The procedures
were followed for sometimne and suitable personnel
were posted in the project after proper scrutiny
by Llte selection commitLlee. UnforLtunately, in the
last few years of the project, selection procedure
was noL adlhered to and at times unwilling and
unsuitable personinlel were placed In tLie project,
which adversely affected smooth progress. The
continuity of experiencelstaff did not find due
consideration.
4.       Enough flexibility was not built in the project
in the pre MTR period. Mid-Term-Review report did
provide for adequate flexibility at CPD's and PD's
level, but i.n practice, the rigidness and the
usual bottlenecks of the departmental procedures
were there to stay with little differenice in Llte
approach towards this time bound project.
5.       PlacemenL of personnel in the project was
inordinately delayed in quite a few cases which
adversely affected project implementation and
quality.
6.        Innovations and contingent items which were
proposed to be included were at ti.mes frowned
upon and the system could not readily be initiated
beyond the stereotyped working.
7.       Non filling up of important posts and repetitive
transfers of senior project staff adversely affected
progress of the project.



48
Concl usions
fli nia Iayan Watershed ManagenienL I'roject
was a pilot project which endeavoured to translate
the idea of sustai nable resource management inito
practice. It was for the first time that such a multi-
disci plinary approach towards land managemilenit anid area
clevelopimient was adopted on a watersihed basi.s in Lhe
hill region of Uttar Pradesh.
The subwatersheds selected for this watershed
manageinenit pilot project were most problemetic consider-
i-ng tlhe immeuse pressure on vegeataion and land resources
emaniating from  the high cattle and human population. The
straLegy and project implemenitation methodology was not
a tested one, and the project implementation went through
a process of evu t&Ation. The limited man power and other
resources at Lke disposal of project and the new area
developm;ment strategy were put against the age-old and
tradliLional practices of the local people. T'he projecl had
also to break the inertia of stereo-typed pattern of
departmental worki ng. The weaknesses of the original project
proposals as outlined in the SAR had to be identified
and remedial measures were taken cluring the course of
project i mplenient ation.
Considering all these aspects the outcome of the
project has been quite encouraging inspiLe of limitations.
A brief overview of differenit project activities has been
giveni in the preceedllig pages. 'I'he Following conclusions
can be drawn fromil tile experiences gained during projecl
implementation :
1.         Multidisciplinary waLershed managemenl projects
can provide the key to sustainable development of
land & natural resources in hi-ll areas.



49
towards project objectives. Human aspect of
A               project management has to be given due importance.
9-     Considering tLie highly demanding nature of these
multidisciplinary projects, selection of personnel
lbccot-its very important.  lhe project Leain must be
competent, cohesive and willing to understand and
assimilate the intricacies of new fields. The
personniel should work as a team and refrain from
adopting a compartmentalised approach.
10.    For the success of any project, a project approach
must be developed at all levels. Taking a parochial
view on the project activities will tend to bogdown
the project mid way.
The experiences gained during the implementation
of Illmalayan Watershed Management Project have been very
lInportant and enlighiLening. Ihere is a stronig need and
justification to take up hill area development projects of
similar kind as multidisciplinary watershed management
projects. m ore such projects need be formiulated taking into
account the past experiences. The lessons learned during
project implementation will be of great help while initiating
new investment programmes for development of hill areas in
Uttar Pradesh and other Western Himalayan regions. It should
be endeavoured to prepare a perspective plan for the develop-
ment of all the critical watershed areas of U.P.hills on
tlhe lines oF Himalayan Watershed Management Project incorporat-
ing its experiences with suitable modification based on
Lhe lessonslearnt. The perspective plan can be submitted to
World Bank, EEC and other external agencies-for aid. It is
hoped that the international and bilateral aid organisations
would hiave an open mind and would be forLIl coming For
supporting integrated watershed management for over-all
development of the hill region.
a  .Y *   l  *
KN Ipumiu/



l 
s a u n x a N NV
0s



Position of yerwise outlay,expen4iture and reimpiursement c1a4Ms pf the prcject
(fs. in crore)
Year                   Outlay                Expenditure           Reimbursement claims
(Submitted and received)
1983-84                   1.15                    1.24                   0.24
1984-85                   2.12                    1.10                   0.68
1985-86                   3.65                    2.98                   1.90
1986-87                   6.06                    7.77                   4.31
1987-88                   9.17                    7.38                   4.34
1988-89                 16.05                    10.69                   5.72
1989-90                  14.05                   13.61                   8.85
1990-91                 13.68                   12.30                    8.48
1991-92                  14.18                   15.60                 11.30
1992-93                  13.18                    7.82                   4.10
Total                    93.29                   80.49                 49.92
Note :- Outlay of project wasrevised   from time to time.



52
World Bank Project
Componentwise Staff Position
(as on 30 Sept. 1992)
Component               Sanctioned Posts           Posts filled
1.  Forestry                 580                     555
2.  Horticulture              54                      47
3.  Minor Irrigation          51                      42
4.  Agriculture              220                     189
5.  Animal Husbandry          66                      55
6.  Soil Conservation          2                      01
7.  Accounts                   3                       1
/
Total-        976                     890
Note   Subwatershedwise staff expenditure is given in the
progress report formats.



53
Zatplettnthst xon
5xpots        (ILL)   I          mhe nhontfdllL  in platheng of furewood and
fodder tnc sftces was agdanst Sth    tergv   tsi
Stneo tR tprgets  re revlsed during NtO
the aii  Itrgets  eas    to    o rffectry a
Thes   was no ssr ortfll agtans the MU
tergets  Infdct thes, were obceeded.
Ilewits       Cil)           As 0metioene  abnov, tihe SAR targets becate
redundant *fter NUt, 14neo, the obsearvation
that the project fail fs iort of
attaining its targets in the forestry and
soil conservation composants and the
inference drawn from thils obsoeration is
mslelading. Infact, thea NIB targets of tesles
camponents wore nor only fully attainad,
they were exceeded.
uStain.a.    (ii})  3   4    Coments on those obsarvatLi>ns have been
abilLty                       given in the relevant paras in the following
pages.
Project Design
arj d
Organisation   4      4.5     Although at the time of the launching of the
project. The social isswes were not
emphasised enough. This aspect was taken
Into consideration during UTR. Himalayan
Watershed Manabement was a pilot project .
As such,tho problems experienced during the
course of project Laplmontation could have
not been foresoen. However, a Project LaunLh
Workshop 0 would have boon highly beneficial
in proper orientation of the project
staff *.



54
Projoct Dos1r - 4        4.7     It Is  greed that setting up of a
U & It unLt vould have belpad. However,
basic lnfoxnatLons such as the number
of b.n.flcLarlt  fmUlies and the area
and sirage   yields of Improved
cropping wer properly documented by
tho projoct.
Proj *et         5    S.*4        CR par& 5.4 menticns that SAR
Vmplamentation                    plantation target of 86*Ooo ha. was based
on extrapolatLon of date from Machlad
SIIwS t was subsequently found that
only 55#000 ha was actually available
for afforestation ani consquently. the
MTR reduced the afforestation target
to 35S905 ha. lvcn then,  hLle making
obsorvations on forestry component,SAR
targets have been quoted aid used.uiich
apparently has resulted in aberrated and
a skewed assessment of the component;
5      5.5     The project activitLes were carried out
by the line departments of the Govt. of .
U.P from the year of stirt in 1983 till
1986* The recommendations of the siorld
Bank supervLslon flissions were regularly
sent to these line doptts. for follow-up.
The line deptts. took the project work
as an additLonality to their nowial
dep* rtmental activities. This was net
one of the reasons ihy the  uorld Bank
supervisLoni missions'recomendatloas
could not be translated into actlon InI
the pre_-TR period. There were a number
of other dravbacks in the line deptt.
sysjtem of workLig ihich led to ma6or
basiC changes in the organisational



55
struCtures,lmplameatatLa strategy an
projoct philosophy  after Aid Tr.
Review was conducted , As a result the
projects focus was shifted to moet
local camunity neods for fuel an
fodder.
Irodact          S         S.6    forest nurseries In the projoct areas
LI8pI .a.i*ntatiwi                 have not been closed but transferred to
the line departments.
The bbservation that there was a
tendency to adopt a blue print approach
for making contour furrow is not true.
There was considerable elasticity in
the approach and the methodology was
changed heore thetr were abrupt changes
in slope angle. Vetiver was not used
exclusively for forming vegetatlve
barriers along the contours.Qlter
suitable Indginous species Ie
Dodonea viscosa, love grass etc. were
also planted on the contour furrows.
5%7     Targets for physical gully control
structures as mentbnod  in ttho SAM
or MTR were only indicativo,because
It Is Impossible to prodict the numbr
of structures which would be requLred
to treat a *A, wlth out carring out
detailed survey of the area. Hence,
under soll conservation and gully
contiol work, apsries of small, low
cost check dams wero constructed after
proper survey of the UaW  a Thougi at
a glance, the number of the structure
constictedse6es quite high, lt ls not
so If oma takes into account the
quantum  of probleam of gully orosln
In the area. The average cost of thcsse



56
structures ces to b# 360 ?or hushwoa,/
stone checkda.s I b. 2670 per crateA4re
d   and h. 6400 par drop structure. It Is
apparent that the unit cost par structure
has been quite low. There might have ben
soae instances of faulty  or inadequate
designing of some of the strudures but
overall quality of the soil coniservation
work, designs of the structures and thelr
cost- effectlveness has bec.n adequate p
In the various World Bank rzview mLssions
reports too,it has been observed that the
technology bf constructicn was found to
be appropriate and cost effective.
6       5.6        The instruments lnstalled by the project
to measure run off and soil loss ln soas
mlnlwatersheds were supported Ly a stand'.
by instnmaent which was usGl ln cas of
any breakdoun in the lnstalled one.
Hencetha run off nd sedimeant data was
regularly collected and properly
maintained throughout.
35.10      The observations that most horticultural
;          nurseries  within thepiroject area have
ceased production is orroneus and
misleading. The project did not establish
its oun frult-seedling nurseries but
obtained most of the horticultural
planting material from the line deptt's
nurseries and other sources. Even after
the closure of the project, the line
deptt's nurseries ate continuming tl ir
productlon.
5.11      The cattle *xchangi pxograzae was droppid
after two years and not after three year
as mentioned ln the '#prt.



57
tl12      The liLtatLons &f * Wii Wbott. C u ,4& t
wer* appawmt   I it wifs   t bi t;.* wLi
the project appx4is . As & x.4ult ti5
project could not Vt &WiduAmt nLw,.tum
and proper orientatiw.. Thii cucuiA
aspect was taken litt icccwJt duriki.3 UVAk,
It was only after thw MITI 1s 19il - oftw
a lapse of five year   that   UAifibLJ
Conandp   sybtcw wai b4optJ  Liich q.w.v
a discrnible bupatu, tu tlkw proJjbct. li.i
pwxfoxki,ncw of Ujs projict- Lutit 1n
qua1Ltati1vj . s i.411 a* (4,AititJt 1vw
tormis- iw4pri'ed drasti1 iLily btt.or  tls
switch ov6r  to r Wified Cc,.hJJ42J " appxvA1
4Aida Is roflCct6d In the World U.&
Supcovision missicinu r6porti  4lzi ,
The Unified Cowinudi .6pvch cauld  iaot
have bern made uppllc.wblo at tlhe btirt
b&cause there was r oV uxpwince ira thU
deptt.for such approach. It Is oblviv-4a,
thatthe    Uiified Ccoi=nJ 0 opproich wsa
developed after the r&ults .f   Lli-&
Daptt. ^ approai* %wra *x6.ais   * Ila1i is
a developmant Ps.,c4ss Whicia,k'A.urily,
takes tie to *volv4.
V,,3j e;     64x  The SAR targets weria rvisrJ ln thi 1A1M
and more  realistic targwitAs w. fixA
*  *hich were not only fully achiwv4dl but
wore even exce;,dod in case of tiy btry WJ
Soll Conservation componints. lils is aiIo
reflected in pats 6.2 of the   )A,QtAUiore
UTR.,when the work wAs extcutud Li th.,
line depareants, It was sctt4rWal l ovbWr
the proj act area. Ilow.ver, uftwr MaI a
multidis4iplnary t6ahw C~i&C-iuteiat*J th.i
efforts on sme sal&ctvd iuicrjat*r.i&bJs
In an integrated iarnn#r. As *  .sbult thl
deterioration of the 4c;.ybt4" II& thaq
selectbd J46d. w.1s Lr     J



58
hkLWi  lan  laa                      CmL
7      6*3    The shortfall In forestry mentioned In this
pare is with rOSpKt to SAR targots. AS alreodY
stqted. the SARd W  ceased to exist ahd were
weplaCe4 by MTi1 %&gets. henceit is erroneous
afn  unreasonable to wefer every tias to SAR
targets for assessment of achlvwve ns.
The MR mission has grossly under-
estimated the fuelwood ylelds from ftorestry
and fodder pLantations as 18.9 and lOOt/ha
respectively after 20 years. 2ven the
Messlon has agreed that these estimates
* cannot be vorfled.
Central Soll * Water Conservation Research
and Training Instituto (CSUI&kT) have biven
the folloAng estimates of yield per tre
from Grewla opposilifotoa ln tk*Lr Fakote
MRP. Fakote ORP area is simLlar to that of
Himalayan Watershed Mlanagement Proeact area.
Though GrewLa opposLtLfolLa Is a slow
growing specLes, the yield data for t,is
spocies ln the Fakote (fP can ba used to
make-a conservative assessment of the
expected yield from the plantationis ralsed
by the projct.
(A) !itd Of tIoAS frCn lpQRI&g of treesi
(JOth yar onwards)
Frequencp of lopping- 4 loppin. once a
month for 4
months  ln a
years
i.e. maximum 16 loppLng/
year
(i) Estimated Yield (10th Year So- 15th veazd
4 2.5 kg of twigs per tre per
lopping 16 loppings per year will give
2.5x16=40 kg/tree/year
(2) _E6 tMAbA Xield in   Jvgjg
SOkg/troe/yoat
(3) Jst1mated yield 1n 1th.and 1h year
60 kg/t  / year
(4) <t> ^ _ _.



59
E!!ptitiw   hRAB      eau                       a
The approach of the project towards
meeting the fu9twood dGmards in the area
has been two pronged.
1 By enhancing the availability oV fuelwood
tbrough different types of plantation model#*
2. By reducing the d6mand of local people for
fuelwood through alternate sources of
*energy (such as biogao  &nd introductlon
of energy efficient fuel Saving devic*s
(such as smokeless chulhas. improv4d wood
stovos, pressure cookers etc.)
In the former case, the PCR mission has
omitted to take Into account the Introduction
of energy plantation over an area of 1086 ha &
production of seasonal enargy bLa$ass. -Such
energy plantationsare *xpect&d to yield 14t of
fuel per ha.
In the latter case,lt is estimated thA
the demand for fuclwood is reduced by 14t
per year for each blogas plant install6d g
pja > f'k-4Ia tv  54WM4 Itcvv. *4" I.
0.7 t per yearjfor each pressure cookek
intoduced in th  project area. If all the
fuelwood, saing devicos introduc6d in the
project area are taken intoaccount, the net
savingifuelwood amounts to equivalent of
47,346 t of fuelwood produced per yeark



60
-  uring field visits war. found to bea
cost effactive ar 1 the techn&loGOY -A
of construction was appropriate,
9       4.10   Tho VCR Mission's report states that the
cost of establishing ths  fuelwood ar-
fodder plantqtLons were much higher  than
expected . The statement is unwarranted
oa does not represent the true picture.
Infact, the details given by ICR Iissions
In this regard have been quoted out of
contoxt from an old report (May _JUna 86)
of iorld Bank Reviewa U1ssion. At that time
(about 7 years back ) the line dopart.enits
were executing the project activities as
an additionality to their noiwal
departental work. rho observati.is of
world Bank Review Missiol'}s r.port
(May-Jun. 1986) ware later lookaJ lnto
and appropriate corrective raaasures war*
adppted in the subsequrnt year. F va
1988 onwards. I.e. after UTAI, UWifiLd
Cgnmand system was adopted. Tho quality
of work sarkedly imnprovgd after DI which
was also reflected in World Bank is sionS
field reports.
PCA .Lts ss report al6o statas that
the planting rate of 5 to 12 tres pahr
man day was excessively high. It Is not
clear how theso figures have bWar arriv6d
at by. PCR Mission, In this context it is
pertinent to note that all wok%sin the pxria
project  ar, carried out as par the
approvod schedule of rate. The prvaillng
wage rate Is taken into account .k4ll
deciding upon the schedul of rat*e
The present schedule of rat, f4w
planting I h. 0d1  pow Se4114g at a wag.
ate of b.25 per diem. It  nic,atas that
th  plantlog r#to is 139 su dllnas per mau
dWe EVe2  it we add the cost of at sarage



61
3u. tht   LS,   Zai           ~    ,  I1&
LU 11A&ah
plantations on private lani which also hiad
a low unit cost (1t. 108/ha). Ti5s Ltwi was
dropped after MTi resulting LA rduced
physical achiGvment against LAR targrtab Ltit
without a proportionate reduction on the
expenditure side.
After MTR,the forestry coaponvit* was
drastically revised and the foiloat4ig
plantatLon models were adoptd S
(1) On detraded forests    1600 planits/bs
(2) On blank areas      -  2500 plants/ha
(3) Hear villages          .1.000 plaiatsJ/he
Technology  dited for those plaitatica
models included dlgging of contour furrows
and raLsing of vegetative barrLers alor.g
these contour furrows in addltion to pl4ating
of sedlILngs in plts dug along contours. It
say be sentLoned bere that ln the  pr-4LTA
period only planti giseadlings was to be
carried out. Thw post-bTR models with
Improved technological package entallad
hlper unit costs as compared to preiTa
models.
From the details given above. lt bcc&.-as
quite clear that PCI mLssionls report t,as
not baen Alo to present a straight ar4
thuthful record of Aifactual positLon. Tie
report gives a totally biasod assass;zbt of
forestry ccmponent through  -
presented statistics nasinuating that marely
37% of the physical targets wore schiev.d
after spanding n Whpping  TU  of the
estiated costs given in SAV5
The soot we  -zun ln case of pro).$
administratilo  was mainly due to rev ion
of the pay ,sa"s of the .aplcyees.



62
7. staptus of covenarats      19       O.Ke
0. Uv  of Bark Resources
A* Saff Lputs (staff   19          No Coeants  r  posil*
weeks)
8. UIa4ssosi&J,s                   O.K.
dp4wanuix 1                        No co     ns
4p4siJix 2.0r.g  I to 12            No cow&ents.
Aippf*Ilu 3                        Und*t posture devalopauntw,r3k
done La 199Z-93 (1113 hd) his not
boon taken Into account .inCe*,th,
totel of pasture dwe.apuarnt work
should bo 3649 ha.
Appi,aJix 4                         lA yield asibptlont for ditf #r.nt
pSPOlOO and Other assu&ptions ik*
pezcentage of differont ap cies
are lnorrect . th* dot-ils at.
given In relevant parae in Part-I.
Appndix S                          O.K.
Appdndlx 6
Tble I                              4 conts are possible as
table 2                            proj,ct costs have boon eapres,d
in USJ .
Apolndix 7                          The *conmlic  naysls ls based on
inaccurate and unrealistic
tezmitss.  ience the U%R estimation
S too low.
A,ppand1x 0                        lo coMa3ets needed.
1103T    5*A6 tables  1A                           y   J
4c ~L. ?~-a -v WA   A   *,4-4t         'r  0 0Z. LVZ



HIMlALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEM1ENT PROJECT.
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR  ENDING MARCH,193                    ANNEXURS-4
PANAR SUJWATERSHED:  F.INANCIAL PROGRESS                     APPEND Ix-7viiij   (R ..000)
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__--------------------------------
rPO JET .ACT11.1iTY                PROJECT           ANNUAL  TARGET   BUDGET   BUDGET             ACHIEVEMENT              CUMULATT!IE
TA RG ET             1??2-'3         RE)UE-   ALLOTED   DUPITG   TILL END    TILL SE?. TILL
-        APPRAISEL  REVESED STED                         REPORT- OF REPORT-   I-S12    MARCH
ING PERIOD ING PERIOD                   1 
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__--------------------------------
El]                            [2}             [31           [4]        [53      I-SI        [73          tS3         ll^l         t103
--- -- -- -- -- ---   --  --3)--      --  ---  --  --  --  --)----       --)---7)----                 -- -- --  --  ---  --  ---    --  -)
1.1- ;:7FF SALARIES                       15000.0    S200.0    4600.0    '800.0   4'O).0   '2134.9     '7e.0 3  2459'4.S3    71Z'.
,2- OF-R4TING  COST                    3200.0    1136.0    130.'0           S1300.O    1S30.0        656.6    130c.3    6276._   693Z.
1.1- 5i'J;L WORK                           Z600.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                     0.0    Z211._    2211.
' .i-  I U;PMlEN4TS 1 FURNITURE   3S0.0         1^o.3      -18.3        18.3        1S.3         0.0        1S.;      5-10.3       1 1i. '
2--ORE,,-:: Y                          54644.0    4770.0    4770.0    4770.0    477 O.   543.4  4567 !                      ,9O.' o O3- S
OIL CONSERVATION                         7718.0    1 136.0       116.0       1136.0       136.0         0.0    121         V682.S   156iL.c6
4-LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT                  16397.0    2720.0    2720.0    2720.0    2720.0                141.2    2?0S.2   16744.Z   1 688S.
5.1 rG'.TCULTURE EXTN.TRG.                    75.0        69.0        67.0        09.0        69.0         0.0        66        505.6       S0
5.2-AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT                3505.0        ?14.4       914.4       ?14.4       914.4         0.0       685.      6S39.Z       8
6-HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT                 2626.0       287.7        287.7       287.7       287.7         0.0      2c7.7    3695 .        3695.3
7-r^lItlOF: IRRIGATION                     89885.0        35.6        35.6        3S.6        35.6         0.0        35.6    4677.1    4677.1
?-ENERGY CONSEPVATION                        500.0         9.0          q.0        9.0         p.0         0.0         9.0    1600.S    1600.3
10-DRENKING WATER SUPPLY                       0.0      154.S        154.8       154.8       1S4.S         0.0      154.1    6137.7    6137.7
TOTHL                115600.0   16550.8   16214.8   16214.8   16214.8    3476.0   1S020.7  149675.1  lS31Sl.l
------------------------------------------------------__--------------------__--------------------------------



HNIMALAYAN UATERSHED MANAGEP.ENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH-19q'3         ANNEXURE-4
PANAPR SUBWATERSHED: FPINANCIAL PROGRESS           APPENDI'A-7 !viii'  OR.R.000)
PF'O ECT ACTIYITY            PROJECT        ANNUAL TARGET  SUDGET  SUOGET        ACHIEVEMIENT          CLr'ULATI.'E
TARGET           1992  32    RE'3UE-  ALLOTED  DUTIN5  TILL END   TILL 5EP. TILL
-.     APPRAISEL REVESED STED                  rEFORT- OF REPQ;T-  1992   MARCH
ING PERIOD ING PERIOD            19^3
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__--------------------------------
El                        C2           CS3         C)43    t5      6)       7)        E803      123        10)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__--------------------------------
~.1- 9TRF SALARIES               -lSOOO.O   S300.0   4800.0   4800.0   .800.0   2134.9             4780.8  24994.3  2712-.2
".2- i-l7.ATING COST               3200.0   1136.0   1300.0   1300.0   1300.0    656.6   130:.3   6Z76.3   692.
I .3- .T JI! WOF;K                  2600.0       0.0       0.0       0.        0.0       0.0       0      2211.-   221- .2
i.4- -UIPMENTS & FURNITUPRE          350.0      18.3      18.3      18.3      -1.3       0.0      1. 3    510.3    S10._
2-.-OE;. Y                         54644.0   4770.0   477.0.0   4770.0   4770.0    543.4   4567.!  S.S00.2  60343.6
3-SOIL  ONSERVATION                 ;717.0   1136.0    1136.0    1136.0   1136.0         0.0   1210.3  15652.Q  15662c.
4-LI'JESTOCK DEVELOPENT            16397.0   2720.0   2720.0   2720.0   2720. 0    14 1.2   2.03.   16744.2  16885.4
5.1-AG-;TCULTURE EXTN.TRG.           7Z.O      69.0      07.0      69.0      69.0       0.0      66.     505.6    505.6
5.2-AGR.ICULTURE DEVELOPMENT        350        ?..0 14.4    914.4    914.4    914.4      0.0    68&.5   6839.2   S839.2
6-HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT          2626.0    287.7    287.7    287.7    287.7           0.0    287.    3695.3   3695.3
7-MItNR IRRIGATION                  8985.0      35.6      35.6      35.6      35.6       0.0      35-   4677.1   4677.1
?-ENERGY CONSERVATION                500.0       ?.0       9.0       9.0       9.0       0.0       9.0   1600.8   1600.8
10-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY               0.0    154.8      154.8    154.8    14.o          0.0   1-54.1   6137.7   6137.7
TOTAL            115600.0  16550.8  16214.8  16214.8  16214.8   3476.0  160320.7 149675.1 153151.1



HIMALAYAN WATERSHED f1ANAGE7ItENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YE;AR ENDING MARCH,1993              ANNEXURE-4
NAYAR RIGHT SUEBWTERSHED: FINANCIAL PROGRESS  APPENDIX-7(v)  (Rs.,000)
PC-:JECT ACTTVITY              P5OJECT         AtNNUAL TARGrET  BUDJ;ET  AUCGcT         4CH!EVEM1ENT           CUnULATIVE
TARGET             1982-93        REi UE-  ALLOTED  DURING  TILL Ei1O    TILL SEP. T;L_
APPRAISEL REV'ESED ST-D                     RE?ORT- OF REFORT-  1QC-   MAPRC
ING PERIOD ING PERIOD
f1l                         t'2            L3I                       r74 tS]                    co]]       E?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-------------------------------
.1- STAFF SALAaIES                   5000.0      500.0       415.0      415.0      415.0    -160.?      415.4   4860.?    5c^.
i    OPERATING COST                    900.0                  76.0           019.4                       76.Q      9S3.o      ?''.
.G- CIVIIL WORK                  250.0         0.0             0.00             0 0 0      0.0       00         0.)          )
;.;- FUIPMENTS & FURNITURE             160.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.O  7S 3. 
FrEr'STRY                          11S24.0    14-14.?      1414.?    14;,.      141   ' _ . 1340               1 Z_1.3   14S
-SOIL CONSERVATION                    694.0      435.8      4.E        -3S.8      3SJ.         0.0    3C1. ,    375ei.    37r_. .
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT               8467.0    'f91 4.2    -914.2      -            1          4.5     971.3    5221. 4   52e2,
.1-AGPICULTURE --XTN.TRG.              49.0        8.0        3.0        e 50       3.          0         7.c
A-G'.RICULTURE OEV!ELOP'IENT          991.0      302.0      302.0      302 0      320           0.0     294.     2076 o     ' '
:-ORTCULTURE DEVELOPfENT             '09.0      2a3.1      282.1      28   1      S2.1        0.0     276-.     1372.0    1377)
:-INtlOR IRRIGATION                 127S.0    '  0.0         0.0        0.0 0      0. 0       0.0        0.0    1Z14.0    17_
;-Er0ERGY CONSERVATION                 300.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        O.;)    747.9 ?       ,-
i-ERINKING WATER SUPPLY                  0.0       28.3       28.8       213.8      28.8        0.0        0.0    1382.7    132:.7
:v-WATERSHED MANAGEA1ENT TRG.            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       6.0        -                  Lo
TOTAL               30620.0   3985.3    3876.3    3876.8    3876.8           2-2.6   379?.1   3?911.1   3c,--,
-------------  - ------ ---- ----------------- - -- --- - -- - _       _       _ _  __       _       _ . ._       _       _       __  __    _--__-__- -_--__-__-__--_- -__-__    _--__-__  __--_--__-__--_--__-__  -- - - - - - - - -



HIMALAY4AN WATERSHED M1ANA'3EsnEtT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF 5 zEAR. ENOING i MARCH,iQQ3           AiNEXURE-4
iNAYAR RIGH7 SUEW.,TERSHED: F7NANCIAL PRbrRESS  APPENDIX-I(v)  tRs., 00)
PF:OjECT ACTD') ITY            PROJECT         ANNU.AL TARGET   BUDGET  eUCOET           "CHIEVEilENT           CUiULATIkJE
TARGET              19Q2-5S       REiUE-  ALLOTED  DURIRGt  TILL Ei'O   TILL SEP. TIl:'
APP RAISEL REV.ESED STE-D                   PE.-O  OF REFC;RT--   1Pc '      1
INC PER.IOD INGO PERIOD,            I
.1C L)                                                           csI      6]         w, 3  63  co]                       - I
. I- STAFF SALARIES                   5000.0.    500.0        4i 0      I15.0      415.0      160.7     415.4' 4863.?   502.
OPERATING COST                    900.0      100.0        7  A        6.o       76.0       19. .     Z 6.      9^3.6      3 '
CIVIL WORK            500.0                     0.0        0 .          .0       0.0        0 .0       0.Q0  '     .)
;.4 ElUIPMEhTS & FURNITURE            160.0         0.0        0 .0       0.0        0.0        0.0          . t)     7'          .
:-,OR'iTRY                          1124.0       141SZ 4.? 0 4I -    1            I414.Z       312 . 0       1 2    .I - 1'1 .2   16Sz'z
'-SdIL CONSERVATION                    694.A       435.2      43 '25.8              435.C        0.0      3c51-,              3
L-C(!TOCK DEVELOPMENT               c4;.0        .-14.2     ?1                14.2 .              S     971.     5221.
I. 1-Aur.I;ULTURE EXTN.TRG..             49 .0       8.O 1         0          '.C      O.9                               .
N."-A6RICULTURE OEV!ELOPMENT          991.0      302.0      302.0       302.0      302.0        0.0     24        2070 3
:-HOP,ICULTURE DEVELOPMENT             509.0       2SZ.1      Z2.1        S2.1      292.1        G        2o        1S72.0  1 '   13Z_.O
'-INOn IRRIGATION                    127.0         0.0          . 0      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.)0    1714 0    1',-.0
--E.EROY CONSERVATION                  300.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      747.9      7 .
;-cRiNKING WATER SUPPLY                   0.0       28.S       28.8       28.8       28.8        0.0        0.0    1382.7    1^-8-.
:;2-WATERSHED MANAGEMlENT TRG.            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        6.0         .
-----------------TOT--L---0---0.0---398--.8-------------8--6.---3--7--.8_-2--__---------1-----11---1---------__
TOTAL               30620.Q    3985.3    3az'6.a'   S876.8    3876.8    22-2.S   37I9 ?. .1  39114.               39S1 .-i .7
--------- - -- --- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -_ -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- ---- - - -- - - --- - - ---_- _- - - - - - - - - - - -- ---



:
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MAPRCH 19"3           ANNEXUJrE-4
MACHLAD SUBWATE;.SHED: RINANCIAL PROGRESS           APPENDIX-7(i)  (Rs.,000)
PROJECT ACTIVITY             PROJECT        AtINUAL TARGET  SUCGET  SLUDGET        ACHIEVEMENT          CUMULATIvIE
TARGET            -1??2-9.      REUE-  ALLOTED  DUPING;JG   TILL END   TI L  SEP. TI;
APPRAIVSEL REVESED STED                  REPORT- OF REPORT-  13-92   M AR
ING PE.IOD ING PERIOD            19 3
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__--------------------------------
1)                       2)           1 3) I    c        Cs]    Ca)         73        c3E 31 '1 i
.1- STAFF SAL.-RIES               952 2.0'J   2200.0   2176.0   2.176.0   '170.    1067.?.  2176.6     833.8  IS651.7
^,,- OPERATING COOST               Z3OO.O    '00.0       S22.(.              S2         Z1'.2    JZ1.7   390-.9   4'.!?.1
I.;  VTJIL WORK                    2.C               0.0             ).000..0            0.0              I  1,11-.7  1j1 .7
.j_ _iUIPMENTS 2 FURTU4            2O0.O       0.00. 0.0                                          O.      3OS.0    3QS.O
-FORESTRY                        25584.0 IS21.-. 1 52 1.4    1S21.4    1S _1.-   141?.                    "'Io.7  34715.6
;-SOIL CONSERHATION                 1981.0    37J.7      37S.7    37Z.7    37S.7          O.0    478.f   591.4   551C.4
-LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT             10600.0    446.0      446.0     446.0      .16,.0     4.6    4;S    7342,.    73V7.S
1-AGRICULTURE EXTN.TRG.            133.0       9.5       9.S        ?.5                 0.0      11       185.e    185.8
' . 2-AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT       1710.0     167.7     167./      167.7     167.7       0.0    281.4   2307. 3   2367 .3
O-HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT         '162?.')    2S.1     289.1      289.1     289.1       0.0    224 2475.0   2475.0
-MINOR IRRIGATION                 1230.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     2 8S.0   2893.0
a-WATERSHED MANAGEMENT TRG.          190.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      45.0      VS.0
?-ENERGY CONSERVATION                300.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    906.?    906. ?
10-DRINKING WATER SUPPLr               0.0      24.3      24.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0   1503-.8   -1503. 3
,OTAL             J743:.O   5533.4   5521 .4   wc '.4    ! C.4    128'^.5   5616.2  783608.2  80153.7
__  _  __ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ __  _ _ _ __  _ _ _ __  _ _ _ j_           _   _   _   _  _    _  _    _  _   _   _



H!MALAY,AN WATERSHED MANASErEJT PROJECT
FROGRES'S REPORT HALF YEAR ENDII-G MARCH. 1199                ANiEXLSE-
RUIJRAPRAYAG SUEWATERSHED: FINANCIAL PROGRESS,  ArPEND?'X-.7iii)   (Ps.,.30
-r.C'JECT ACT- )TY               cRO JE CT         ANNUAL TARGET   BUDGET   EUDGET             ACH.IEYVErN T            CUUrflLLT IVYE
TARGET               1Q 2-,92       RiE'IUE-   ALLOED  DURING   TILL  ENOD   TILL              TILL
APFRAISEL  REVESED STED'                       REPORT- F-i' REPORT-   199Q2    MARC,H
ING PERIOD INC  PERTIOD               195;
E I]                         IC2]3II                          -1               13 t'  t]  t  t7]3      C a3        t9~,3             C'':
.______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
1- 3TAFF SALARIESC                    700 0          00.0    22_S.S         3         ' 6    '3Q l-1O  0           s,.6   11S-8.7   t2;7Z-.-
3PERATING 'GST                     15.0           00".0       .d          80        44c.0       11.6       i           00  .     S1o.:
J                                        CL wOR. 2800 0  "00.0   i3   0      00 0                 C,                    'I1617.Q   -1'1,
-- E-UIPMENT4 FURNITURE                 190.0                                 7 7.9  7  ;            o            .            q      2
'JREST'%Y                            24639.f    1'08.1         17' 1    I041    170S. 1             .'7.     106b.6 b    7n 4  1  27';'1.6
-S01L CONSERVAT o                       1           434.7 -7 -.7            i           4.             0                   010       401.
--LIVESIOC'K  DEViELOPMENtT            o867 0       466.3       566.3      400.3       466.J         5.7        72' S    662 .S    6635.-
1.IAGRICULTURE EXTN.TRG.                      A0        8.0       '0 fl        P. fl       10         0.0         b 6      11 1  1.    1   .1 1
" S-AGRICULTURE cEVELOPRMENT              9ri7.0 a    tS.7        225. 7                 _.    7        0       20 1 S S    21650    2'1 1
*-HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT                439.0       364.7       37          264.7       364.7         0.0     372.S    1471.0    1471.
7-MINOR IRRIGATION                       2188.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.O    2423.0    2423.0:
S-ENERGY CONSERVATION                     300.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    1027.1    10Z7.-
9-DRINKIUG WATER SUPPLY                      0.0       33.6        33.6        33.6        33.6         0.0       57.6    11946.2    1946.2
10-WATERSHED MANAGEMENT TRG.                 0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        22.0       22.:
-----------------------------------50187.0---6--9.--6636.6---6-36.6----------1394.8---6061.2--63561.1----------
iAL                             66c.t b49.0    6636.6    6636.6    6636.6    1w_. JO1; 6S1.                       4   
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



HIMALAYAN WATERSHED 1MANAGEnENT PROJECT
FROGriE3S RE?ORT HALF TE;R ENDING  A1RCN, 1993           ANEXURE-4
RUDRAPRAYIrG SUJUATERSHEO: FINANCIAL PROGRESS  APPEND7X-7(iii)  ('.s 000)
ROEECT ACT- .1.TY             PFO_ET E       ANNUAL TARGET  BUDGET hID13ET            ACHIEVEENT             CU11L4TIVlET
TARGET             1R2-2         REUE-  ALL;OTED  DURING  TILL END    TILL  E.-. TILL
AFPRAI'-EL FREYE;ED STEC'                  REPORT- OF REPORT-  1           MS 1ARCH
ING PERIOD INC PERIOD              15S'-2
-.--------------------------------_--------__---------------------___--------__-----------___-------------------
El)                         [23           C33         [43       tJ]     C6]        [7J        ES)        E9)          C.-;
.______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
.1- 3TAFF SALARES.T                 7'00.3   Z2G.0    223?.6    22.o   _2S.o    1100.0   22 96  11373. 7  12'i3.-
.2- JPERATING  2SzT                .1350.0     500.i-        8.0     4.         4iS.0     211.6    44S.2   200 7I _ 1.-
.3- CIVIL lWOR;                   2S00.0    .600.0       oOO.Q      v00.0     S00.0        0.0       d.    1617.G    1v,-.
-- E-UIPMENTS * FURNITURE           190.0        7.9        7.v       7.9        7.9        0.0       7.          .        6
;5RESTRY                         'r634.0    1708.71 173.1    170S.1    1708.1              77.5    16G0.S  27488 .1  2'65.
-SOIL CONSERJAT;ON                 1229.0      '34.7     -_-.7      i34.7      434.7        0.0    5532.5   4010 .       015 -
LIVESTOCK DEV ELOP^ENT              8867.0     So6.3      S60.       500.3      S66.3        5.7     5i .S    66 
1-AGRICULTURE EXTN.TRG.               53.5       8.0 S       .0        3.0        8.0        0.0       S 6      11   1    11  -
5.s-AGRICULTURE OEVELOPMENT            937.0     225.7 ;     22.7      225.7      225.7        0.0      1      S  16.5)   216w 
6-HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT             439.0     364.7      364.7    364.7        364.7        0.0    372.5    1471.0    1471.'
7-MINOR IRRIGATION                   2188.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   2423.0   2423. .
S-ENERGY CONSERVATION                  300.0        0.0        t.;0      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    1027.1    1027.
?-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY                  0.0       33.6       33.6      33.6       33.6        0.0      57.6    1946.2   1946.3
10-YATEPSHED MNhAGEMENT TRG.             0.0        0.0          0                  0.0        0.0       0.0       22.0       22.-.            s
rOTAL              50187.0    6649.0    6636.        66306.6    oo36.6    1334.8   6061.2  63561.1  64955.
-                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-_- - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - - - --__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEPENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH,'1993        ANNEXURE-4
PAiJAR SU6WATERSHED: PHYSICAL PROGRESS             APPENDIX-6(Viii)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                            UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGET          ACHIEVEMENT (92-93)
TARGET      1992-93        DUPING    TILL END       CUMULATIVE
APPRAISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL          TILL
PERIOD    PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__---------------------------------
[I)                                   [2]    [33        [4]  53]         [63        [7)       C8)        [93
1-,ORESTRY PLANTATION
A-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.   :2266           0        0        0         0        2266       2266
B-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST         Ha.      443       0        0        0         0         443        443
i., A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST           Ha.      307       0       0        0         0         307         307
6-FODDER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND         Ha.      275       0        0        0         0         275        275
1.3-FARM FORESTRY                               Ha.    17A0        0        0       0         0        1760       1760
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND                 Ha.    3000    475       475        0       475        3735        3735
1.5-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                    Ha.      700    475      475        0       476        1474        1474
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES                    Ha.    1400    462        462       0       462        1818        1818
2-SOIL CONSERVATION
2.1-BRUSHWOOD STONE CHECK DAM                   No.    432       - 20     250       O       250        7501        7501
2.2-CRATEWIRE DAM                               NO.    1817    1117                         117        2825        2825
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                              No.       50       0        0       0          0         40          40
2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABILITATION
OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES          Ha.       25      90       90        0        90         195        195
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES             Rmtr       0       0        0       0         0         114         114
REPAIR IF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES             Ha.        0     18.1    181        0        181        482         482
3-HORTICULTURE
_ ---------
3.1-TOP WORKING                                 Ha.      103       0       0        0         O         158         158
3 2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                   Ha.     217      70       70        0        70         403         403
3.3-REJUVENATION OF OLD ORCHARDS                Ha.      213     40        40       0        40         304         304
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS  (PLANTS,O0)              No.     764    100       100        0       100        1327        1327
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS          No.       25       0       0        0         0         328         328
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
-_ -------------
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                               No.     150       0        0        0         0         158         158
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                         Mtr   32230       0        0        0         0       15630       15630
____ _______________________________________________________________________________________________



L 1 n                                L 2 J    L~ >]    E L     1    C J]  [) . C  [ 7       c           [ ) ]  E C
----------------------------------_______________------------------------__--__---------------------------------
5.-ArICULTURAL EVTENTION
J.I-=IELD TRIALS                                No.   26353   6340    6340          0     66-1       331S0       33-1lc'
.- ISTRISUT1ON OF SEED CiIJIIT3               No.    41SS    16        166        0      166        39)4        8CO-
.5-CONSTRUCT)ON OF INFUIT GODOUN                .       ?       O        O        0        0           9
.,-DISTRIEUTION OF IMPROEJED IMPL-,-ENTS      No.    200    22000 2200             0     2200       18424       124Z4
o-ANI4llAL HUSBDANDR:Y
6.1-A.I.FACILITI-S AT VETY.HOSPITAL              0.2                       0        0         0          2
6.7-A.I.FACILITIE` AT S.M.CENTRES               No.        2      0        0        0                    2           2
6.S-FEED &. FODDER  TOFE AT V.H/S.r.C.         No.       11      0        0        0         0          J           5
a:      6.4-ANIMAL HEALTH COYERAGE AT V.H/S.M.C.         No.        ;      0        0        0        0            1          1
a       6.5-DISTRIBUTION OF FODDER SEED 1- HAF:IF        lo.    4100   2500    2500          0     2500        4895        4895
MINIKITS                      2-RABI        No.    4100    625       625        0      625        7720        7720
6.6-PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                         Ha.     130    250       250        0      250         792         792
6.7.1-SUPPLY OF THRASHERS                       No.        4      5        J        0        S          2S          25
6.7.2-SUPPLY OF CHAFF CUTTERS                  lNo.     400       0        0        0         0        455         455
6.7.3-SUPPLY OF FEED TROUGHS                    No.     500    5OC       500        0      500        1559        1559           '
6.7.4-SUPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPERS                  No.        0   1 50     1500        0      1500       2550        2550
6.8-SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERS        No.    1700       0        0        0        0        1155        1155
SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE ' CALF DAYS  00)               0    450       450        0      450        1396        1396
6.9-ESTT.OF N.B.C./S.M.CENTRES                  No.       3       0        0        0        0           9           9
6.10-PURCHASE OF BULLS                          No.        6      0        0        0         0         91          91
6.11-NATURAL SERVICE THROUGH N.B.C.BULLS        L.S    7500       0        0        0        0         962         962
6.12-SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENTS                       No.       17      0        0        0         0          6           6
6.13-SUPPLY OF MILCH CATTLE                     No.      75       0        0        0        0          10          10
7-ENERGY CONSERVATION
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAS                            No.    3000       0        0        0        0        1628        162e
7.2-810 GAS PLANTS                              No.      50       0        0        0        0         100 .       100
7.3-SOLAR COOKER                                No.      50       0        0        0        0          50          50
7.4-PRIYAGNI ANGITHI;                           No.    3000    300       300        0      300        5340        5340
7.5-SUPPLY OF PRESSURE COOKERS                  No.     250       0        0        0        0         250         250
7.6-SUPPLY OF KIROSIN STOVE                     No.       0       0        0        0        0         727         727
7.7-SUPPLY OF COMMUNITY S'OVE                   No.       0       0        0        0        0         119         119
8-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
8.1-CONST. OF WATER TANKS                       No.       0       0        0        0        0          72          72
8.2-CONST. OF PUCCA  DAPIS                                0       1        1        0        1          31          31
8.3-WATER HARVESTING TANKS                      No.       0      15       15        0       15         283         283
___-__ -               --------------------------------____________________-________----- - -----



- - -  - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -.        
-------- -- ;- -   -------- ;-
.--FiRU#T;0;  OF  5F;T G,{C N                                       13    C         0         0 ;
'*-U7TRI6'-.i0?4 OF IPrPOJVED  PPL MEI-'T            N:.       1JOQ       30        30         O         30        2-'E7         2?',7
D-41,AL HU.;ANDFIY
T-i.-HE *[II;ED  AT '.'ETY.H05SFTAL                                                 O
7 .-FACILITIES AT S.,.CE?;,E3                     N.:.                  '                   2          0
& FDDOER STOIRFE h7  Ya/ .C.                            13 o                0         0          '
~~.  I~ ~ML HE  TH.C0YERAGE AT  I./..C             iS ~C
.  __ IN J7ZHTRILUTI   N  HO'  FODE.R-   ZEED    1-KHAF:IF  i.     1                                                   4414 1       1
L  EY'ELOPrIEiJ                           kz                  I ,~    I'~2 -.C                                           68'
. -M-,UkE DP.E!P;N                                 Ha:         re      12         hJo_                                *           8
8.7 ,-SaUPPLY OF THRASHEn S                             No .        2        0         Q         r
6*'.-PUPPLYY                                  8F R9 TK U.      .                      . 0        0           0    O 1284    1         84
6.74-UPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPER:                         Mo.          0        0         0         0        260           670          670
6.8 -UPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERSt               No.      155O        0         0         0           0          28;4         9L 
SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE  (CALF DAYS ,00)                        0      200       200         0        1C8          1024         1024
6 ?-EcTTt ~SOF.BFC./S.I\CENTRE5                         No.         3        0         0         0           0           88
6.10-PUR  mA C        ULLS                              No.          6       0          0        0           0            A3
6  1-ohNtIRAL E-RVICE THROUGH N.B.C.BULLS               L.S      7500        0         0         0           0         21 9         2199
6:1 -SU  LY O  EQUIPMENTS                              No.
20  0                                                          7
4. 13-jXPFL    OF MILCH CATTLE                          No.        100       0                                           70            70
t-ENER56Y CNSE-RVATION
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAH                                    to-      3000        0         0         0           0         1_77          1377
7:3jT  2A   00kTS                                                                      2 t  8                0          161           161
>               A~GT~IS                                 No. .Z,100          60        60         0         60          8291         8291
o
.,  B-DRINKING WA"TER SUPPLY
8. 1-CONST. OF WATER TA,NKS                             No.         0        0         0         0           0           20            20
8.2-CONST. OF PUCCA DAM)S                                           0        0         0         0           0           20            20
8.3-WATER  HARVESTING TANKS                                         0       10        10         0          12           80            80
------------------------__-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



C2]
( 1)                                 E 2     (3)      (4)    (5)        E63      E7)       ES]
S-AGRICULTURE EXTENTION.
5.1-FIELD TRIALS                               No.   27250   2000    2000          0      1581       16557      16557
S.2-DISTRIBUTION OF SEED MINIKITS              No.    3250       18       18       0        19        -19
5.3-CONSTRUCTION OF INPUT GODOWN               No.       20       0       0        0         0           7          7
5.4-DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVED IMPLEMENTS        No.    1500       30      30        0        30       1S745      13745
6-ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
6.1-DISTRIBUTION OF FODDER SEED I-KHARIF       No.    4395   17O   1751           0      1850        3510       3510
MINIKITS                     2-RABI        No.    4395   3000    3000          0     3000        7780        7780
6.2-PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                        Ha.      138    245      245        0       245         649        64? 94
6.3.1-SUPPLY OF THRASHERS                      No.        2       0       0        O         0           6          6
6.3.2-SUPPLY OF CHAFF CUTTERS                  No.      300       0        0       0         0         250        250
6.3.3-SUPPLY OF FEED TROUGHS                   No.      340       0       0        0         0        820         820
6.3.4-SUPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPERS                 No.        0       0       0        0         0         410        410
6.4-SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERS       No.      850       0       0        0         0           0          0
( CALF DAYS .00 )                                   0    104      104        0      105         285         285
6.5-ESTT.OF N.B.C./S.M.CENTRES                 No.        3       0       0        0         0           1          1
6.6-PURCHASE OF BULLS                          No.        6       0       0        0         0          3i         34
6.7-NATURAL SERVICE THROUGH N.B.C.BULLS        L.S    5425        0       0        0         0         590        590
6.8-SUPPLY OF EQUIPflENTS                      No.       15       0        0       0         0           7          7
6.9-SUPPLY OF MILCH CATTLE                     No.       50       0       0        0         0          20         20
7-ENERGY CONSERVATION
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAS                           No.    2500    1S0       150        0       150         970        970
7.2-BIO GAS PLANTS                             No.       15       0       0        0         0         101        101
7.4-PRIYAGNI ANGITHIS                          No.    3000        0       0        0         0       6725        6725
7.5-SUPPLY OF PRESSURE COOKERS                 No.       50       0       0        0         0          52         52
7.6-SUPPLY OF KIROSIN STOVE                    No.        0       0       0        0         0         675        67o
7.7-SUPPLY OF COMMUNITY STOVE                  No.        0       0       0        0         0         50          50
8-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
8.1-CONST. OF WATER TANK                       No.        0       0       0        0         0         20          20
8:2-CONST. OF PUCCA pAMS                                  0       0       0        0        0         20          20
8.3-WATER HARVESTING TANKS                                 0      9        9        0        15                    65
_____  ____ _____  ____ ____ -_ -  -_ _ -_ _ _  __   __ -------------- -------- ------ ------------- -------------- ---------- ---- -------------



NIC'ALA4N WTERHED NAGEM1ENT PROJEC~T
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH.lqtN
WEST NAYAR SUSUATERSHED: PHYSICAL PROGRESS - APE~~DIX-6(vl)
--------------------                           UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TAIRGET       ACIV~IT.9)0
PWROJECT ACTIVITY                          U^4ITARGET        192-C93       CDURING    TILL E\D      CUmL ATIVE
APPRAISAL REVISED  CRPORTING REPQRTING TILL        TILL
PERIOD    PEJOD   ~~~SE'r  2  MAPCH. 93
1)                 E2)    E3]       E4J     ES]  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6J~~ ER10  --     --U?--]
1-FORESTRYr PLAN THTION
'~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   -   -   -   -   -   ST -   - T -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -C  L  C       7   4            2G       
t.4 -FULOOPLANTATION N     IN RESERVED FORES  Ha.       900~ 28         28         O                              7844ld1 z
I1 .R-PLANTATION  IN BLANK LAtND                H.    1300    504        504       Q                              70 '1  _14
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES      F            Ha.    1100    456       I56        0                 1430       1338
2- S I OL CONSERVA T I ON
-.T=&RfSRUQQU-STUnE CHECK DAt1                  No .    4694    500     J00        0       J512      J 143       5143
2.2-CRATEWIRE DAJ                               No      J47    150       1JO       0       150       1076        10738
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                              NO.      33      *15      15       0        15         39          3594
:        ~~~.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
OF . PANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRhCES        Ha.       01      76      76        0        7C         37          7
2.5  REPAIR OF AGRIN LTURAL TERRLCES            Ha.     100      53       53      C0       J          6,1         691
REPAIR OF  AGRICULTURAL TERRACEV  ARSntr)   No.       0       0       0        0        C         140         140
3-HORTICULTURE
3.1-TOP WORKING                                 Ha.     220       0        0       0                  240         240
3.T-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                  Ha.      127    100       100       0       105        462         46J
3.3-REJUVENATION OF OLD ORCHARDS               Ha.      120      20      20        0        20        180         180
3.2-HCRESTEAD ORCHAM S    (PLANTS,OOi          No.      39c    180       180       0         0       IEC126     1290
3.5-OISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TORLS          No.      20    50 C      00        h       '50c,     10J6        1056
4-VINOR IRRIGATION
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                              No.       94       0       06       0                  118         118
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS OtU                              10       0       0        0 G              107         1407
_________________________________________________________



HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH,1?93         ANNEXURE-;
RANDIGAD SUBWATERSHED: PHYSICAL PRCvktSS          APPENDIX-6(iv)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                            UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGET         ACHIEVEMENT (92-93)
TARGET      1592-93        DURING    TILL END       CUMULATI'JE'
APPRAISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL         TILL
PERIOD   -PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__---------------------------------
E1]                                  [2]    3]        43    5]       63       [73       E]83       ]
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-------------------------------_-
1-FORESTRY PLANTATION
_____________________
1.1 A-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.         751       0       0        0         0         751        751
B-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST         Ha.      313       0       0        0         0         313        313
1.2 A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST           Ha.      359      0        0        0         0         359        359
B-FODDER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND         Ha.       71       0       0        0         0          71         71
1.3-FARM FORESTRY                               Ha.     1020       0       0        0         0        1020       1020
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND                 Ha.      SSO    192      192        0       192       1063        1063
1.5-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                    Ha.      260    170      170        0       170         578        578
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES                    Ha.      210    145      145        0       145        458         458            _n
2-SOIL CONSfRVATION
___________________
2.1-BRUSHWOOD STONE CHECK DAM                   No.     1100    250      250        0       356        2261       2261
2.2-CRATEWIRE DAM                               No.      144      35      3S        0        50         493        493
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                              No.       23       0       0        0         0          22         22
2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
            OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES          Ha.       12      27      27        0        29          72         72
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES             Ha.       50      17       17       0        17         171         171
REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES (Rrntr)   No.          0       0       0        0         0         106        106
3-HORTICULTURE
______________
3.1-TOP WORKING                                -Ha.       42       0       0        0         0          50         50
3.2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                   Ha.       96      40      40        0        40         174        174
3.3-REJUVENATION OF OLD ORCHARDS                Ha.       63      20      20        0        20          97         97
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS    (PLANTS,OO)            No.      130       6       6        0         6         277        277
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS          No.       15    200      2C0        0       200         484        484
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
__________________
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                               No.       30      0        0        0         0          76         76
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                         ntr    7300       0        0        0         0       9150        9150
____- - -             _ _ _____--.------ - -- - 0



HIM1ALAYAN WATERSHED MiANAGEMIENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH,1993       ANNEXURE-4
RANDIGAD SUBWATERSHED: PHYSICAL PRCGjtSS        APPENDIX-6(iv)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                          UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGET        ACHIEVEMENT (92-93)
TARGET    1992-93        DURING    TILL END      CUMULATIVE
APPRAISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL       TILL
PERIOD   - PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__---------------------------------
_________11]                                C23  C33         C43    E53      E63   t 73  C 83              C93
I-FORESTRY PLANTATION
*1.1 A-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.      751      0        0       0         0        751        751
B-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST       Ha.      313      0        0       0        0         313        313
1.2 A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST         Ha.      359      0        0       0        0         359        359
B-FOODER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND       Ha.       71      0        0       0        0          71         71
1.3-FARM FORESTRY                             Ha.    1020       0        0       0         0       1020       1020
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND               Ha.      550    192     192        0      192        1063       1063
1.5-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                  Ha.      260    170      170       0      170         578        578
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES                  Ha.      210    145      145       0      145         458        458          _
2-SOIL CONSERVATION
2.1-BRUSHWOOD STONE CHECK DAM                 No.    1100    250       250       0      356        2261       2261
-       2.2-CRATEWIRE DAM                              No.      144     35      35                50        493        493
       2.3-OROP STRUCTURE                             No.      23       0       0        0        0         22         22
-~2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES        Ha.       12     27       27       0       28          72         72
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES           Ha.       50     17       17       0       17         171        171
REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES (Ratr)   No.         0      0        0       0        0         106        106
3-HORTICULTURE
3.1-TOP WORKING                               :Ha.      42      0        0       0         0         50         50
3.2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                 Ha.       96     40       40       0        40        174        174
3.3-REJUVENATION OF OLD ORCHARDS              Ha.       63     20       20       0        20         97         97
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS    (PLANTS,00)          No.      130      6        6       0         6        277        277
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS        No.       15    200      200       0      200         484        484
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                             No.       30      0        0       0         0         76         76
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                       Mtr    7300       0        0       0        0        9150       9150
___-----  -             ------------------- ----- ----  ----------------------------------------------
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---_---  _            ____0 



HIPA~AY&NWATERSPED MANAGEMENTMPROJECT
PROGRES  REPORT HALF YEAR END ING MARCH,1993      ANNEXURE-4
NAYAR RIGHT SUBWATERSHED: PHYSICAL PROGRESS   APPENDIX-6(v)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                          UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGET        ACHIEVEMENT (92-93)
TARGET     1992-93        DURING    TILL END      CUMULATIVE
APPRAISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL       TILL
PERIOD    PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
E13                                 t2]    t3]       L4)    CS)       C6]      C7]       t8]       U9)
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------------------------
1-FORESTRY PLANTATION
1.1 A-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.      714       0       0        0        0         714       714
B-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST       Ha.      279      0       0        0        0         279        279
1.2 A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST         Ha.     301       0       0        0        0         301        301
B-FODDER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND       Ha.       99      0       0        0        0          99         99
1.3-FARM FORESTRY                             Ha.    1414       0        0       0         0       -14-14     11414
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND               Ha.      280    160      160       0        160      475        475
1.5-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                  Ha.      170    170     170        0       170        468        468
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES                  Ha.      190    143     143        0      143         407        407
2-SOIL CONSERVATION
___________________
2.1-BRUSHWOOD STONE CHECK DAM                 No.      740    260     260        0      238        1629       1629
2.2-CRATEWIRE DAM                             Ro.       91      0       0        0 O      0         369        369
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                            No.       11      0        0       0         0         11         11
2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
*           OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES         Ha.      10      62      62        0       62         136       136
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES           Ha.       50     33      33        0       28         427        427
o0-         REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES C Rrntr)  No.        0       0       0        0        0          82        82
a3-HORTICULTURE
3.1-TOP WORKING                               Ha.       36      0       0        0        0          61         61
3.2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                 Ha.       75     40      40        0       40         171        171
3.3-REJUVENATION OF OLD ORCHARDS              Ha.       33     20      20        0       20          79         79
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS (PLANTS,00)             No.      130    100      100       0       100        508        S08
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS        No.       15    200     200        0      200         485        48S
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                             No.       26      0       0        0        0          79         79
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                       Mtr    4700       0       0        0        0        7600       7600
___________________________ ___________________________ ___________________________ _____________________ -_____



1II 2)I   E33                                       c4     5)       c6)       7]      8)        tS3
S-HGRICULTURE
5.1-FIELD TRIALS                               No.    7569   3432    3432         0     S493       16713      16713
5.2-DISTRIBUTION OF SEcD MiNIKITS              No.    1647      18      16        0       19        1514       15t4
3.,-CONSTRUCTION OF INPUT GODOWN               No.       2       0       0        0        0           2          2
5.4-DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVED IMPLEMENTS        No.     800      10      10        0       10        9028       9026
6-ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
6.1-A.I.FACILITIES AT VETY.HOSPITAL            No.       2       0       0        0        0           1          1
6.2-A.I.FACILITIES AT S.M.CENTRES              No.        1      0       0        C        0                      I 1
6.3-FEED & FODDER STORE AT V.H/S.M.C.          No.               0       0        0        0           1          1
6.4-ANIMAL HEALTH COVERAGE AT V.H/S.M.C.       No.       2       0       0        0        0           2          2
6.5-DISTRIBUTION OF FODDER SEED 1-KHARIF       No.    1475   1000    1000         0     1000        245        2245
MINIKITS                     2-RABI        No.    1475   1500    15OO        0      15O0       4425        442S
6.6-PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                        Ha.      23    149      14        0      149         S27        327
6.7.1-SUPPLY OF THRASHERS                      No.       2       0       0        0        0           4          4          oo
6.7.2-SUPPLY OF CHAFF CUTTERS                  No.     200       0       0        0        0         1S0        150
6.7.3-SUPPLY OF FEED TROUGHS                   No.      100      0       0        0        0         660        660
6.7.4-SUPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPERS                 No.        0      G       0        0        0         240        240
6.8-SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERS       No.     845       0       0        0        0         152        152
SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE ( CALF DAYS ,00)              0     72       72       0         0 S31                331
6.9-ESTT.OF N.B.C./S.M.CENTRES                 No.       2       0       0        0        0           1          1
6.10-PURCHASE OF BULLS                         No.       2       0       0        0        0          11         11
6.11-NATURAL SERVICE THROUGH N.B.C.BULLS       L.S    3750       v       0        0        0        1021       1021
6.12-SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENTS                      No.       12      0       0        0        0           1          1
6.13-SUPPLY OF MILCH CATTLE                    No.      50       0       0        0        0          20         20
7-ENERGY CONSERVATION
__ ___________________-
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAH                           No.    1000       0       0        0        0         355       3SS
7.2-BIO GAS PLANTS                             No.       13      0       0        0        0          70         70
7.3-SOLAR COOKER                               No.       SO      0       0        0        0          cO         50
7.4-PRIYAGNI ANGITHIS                          No.    2100       0       0        0        0        30SJ       305S
7.5-SUPPLY OF KIROSIN STOVE                    No.        0      0       0        0        0         250        250
7.6-SUPPLY OF COMMUNITY STOVE                  No.        0      0       0        0        0          29         29
8-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
8.1-CONST. OF WATER TANK                       No.        0      0       0        0        0          10         10
E.2-CONST. OF PUCCA DAM                                   0      0       0        0        0 10                 10
8.3-WATER HARVESTING TANKS                                0      6       6        0        0          40         40
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH,1993     ANNEXURE-4
RUDRAPRAYAG SUBWATERSHED: PHYSICAL PROGRESS   APPENDIX-6(iii)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                        UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGET      ACHIEVEMENT (92-93)
TARGET    *1992-93       DURING    TILL END     CUMULATIVE
APPRAISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL     TILL
PERIOD    PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
(1)                               f23    C33      L43   C53       L63      E73      C83        93
____________________________ _-______________________________________________________________________________
1-FORESTRY PLANTATION
_____________________
1.1 A-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.    651      0       0       0        0        651        651
8-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST     Ha.     348      0       0       0        0        348        348
1.2 A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST       Ha.     392      0       0       0        0        392        392
B-FODDER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND     Ha.      71      0       0       0        0         71         71
1.3-FARM FORESTRY                           Ha.     525      0       0       0        0        525        525
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND            Ha.      950    256    256        0      256       1553       1553
1.5-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                Ha.     600     94      94       0       94        825        825
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES               Ha.      450    206    206        0    . 06         672        672
2-SOIL CONSERVATION
2.1-BRUSHLOOO STONE CHECK DAM               No.    1099    129    129        0      130       1893       1893
2.2-CRATEWIRE DAM                           No.     141     79      79       0      100        708        708
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                          No.      19      0       0     1 0        0         23         23
2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES      Ha.      12     20      20       0       20         58         58
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES         Ha.      50      8       8       0       20        360        360
REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES ( Rmtr)  No.      0      0       0       0        0         84         84
3-HORTICULTURE
3.1-TOP WORKING                             Ha.      22      0       0       0        0         42         42
3.2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS               Ha.      57    60       60       0       60        220        220
3.3-REJUVENATION OF OLD ORCHARDS            Ha.      18    20       20       0       20         60         60
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS    (PLANTS.00)        No.     232    100    100        0      100        534        534
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS      No.      15    200    200        0      200        600        600
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                           No.      32      0       0       0        0         62        62
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                     Mtr    8750      0       0       0        0      10665      10665
__ _ _  - ________________-__-  _________________________________________________________________________________



LC23
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------------------------------
[1)                                 [2)    t3)       143    r5]      E6J       [73      ES]        [93
5J AGRICULTURE
5.1-FIELD TRIALS                              No.    758S   2550    2550         0     213       -lS143      15143
S.2-DISTRIBUTION OF SEED MINIKITS             No.    1J.)      1       16       0        -19       1439       1439
S.S-CONSTRUCTION OF INPUT GODOWN              No.0                      0       0         0           3          3
5.4-DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVED IMPLEMENTS       No.    1000      20      20        0       17       10131      10131
6-ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
__________________
6.1-CATTLE EXCHANGE
6.2-SUPPLY OF FEED
6.3-A.I.FACILITIES AT VETY.HOSPITAL           No.               0       0        0        0           1          1
6.4-A.I.FACILITIES AT S.M.CENTRES             No.        1      0       0       0         0           1          1
6.5-FEED & FODDER STORE AT V.H/S.M.C.         No.        3      0       0        0        0           3          3
6.6-ANIMAL HEALTH COVERAGE AT V.H/S.M.C.      No.        4      0       0       0         0           4          4
6.7-DISTRIBUTION OF FODDER SEED 1-KHARIF      No.   -1680   1625    1625         0     1625       3685        3685
MINIKITS                  2-RABI          No.    1680   2125    2125         0     2125       6500        6500
6.8-PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                       Ha.       37     33      33        0       33        135         135
6.9.1-SUPPLY OF THRASHERS                     No.        2      0       0        0        0          18         18
6.9.2-SUPPLY OF CHAFF CUTTERS                 No.      200      0       0        0        0        266         266
6.9.3-SUPPLY OF FEED TROUGHS                  No.      160      0       0        0        0        745         745
6.9.4-SUPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPERS                No.        0      0       0        0        0        280         280
6.10-SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERS    No.       825      0       0        0        0        536         536
SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE ( CALF DAYS ,00  )            0    140     140        0      251        893         893
6.l1-ESTT.OF N.B.C./S.M.CENTRES   (Part)      No.        2      0       0        0        0           2          2
6.12-PURCHASE OF BULLS                        No.        2      0       0        0        0          16         16
6.13-NATURAL SERVICE THROUGH N.B.C.BULLS      L.S    3750       0       0        0        0        1201       1201
6.14-SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENTS         ( SETS )    No.       12      0       0        0        0           2          2
6.15-SUPPLY OF MILCH CATTLE                   No.       50      0       0.       0        0          20         20
7-ENERGY CONSERVATION
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAS                          No.    2000       0       0        0        0        1065       1065
7.2-5IO GAS PLANTS               -            No.       20      0       0        0        0          79         79
7.3-SOLAR COOKER                              No.       50      0       0        0        0          50         50
7.4-PRIYAGNI ANGITHIS                         No.    3100       0       0        0        0       4222        4222
7.S-SUPPLY OF PRESSURE COOKERS                No.       10      0       0        0        0          12         12
7.6-SUPPLY OF KIROSIN STOVE                   No.        0      0       0        0        0         525        525
7.7-SUPPLY OF COMMUNITY STOVE                 No.        0      0       0        0        0          SO         50
8-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
-08.1-CONST. OF WATER TANK                    No.        0      0       0        0        0          20         20
f       8.2-WATER HARVESTING TANKS                    No.        0      7        7       0        12         62         62
8.3-CONST. OF PUCCA DAMS                                 0      0       0        0        0          50         50
. ,4____________________________________________________________--__________________________________________________



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - s- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cr1 ]                                C23    E3)3      *C4     C53       C63       [7)      C8J         t?]
SAGRICULTURE
5.1-FIELD TRIALS                                No.   28926   30ao    3080         0      3189       31894       31984
5.2-DISTRIBUTION OF SEED MINIKITS               No.    2725      25       Z5       0        25         Y4J4        44'5
5.3-CONSTRUCTION OF INPUT GODOWN               No.         9      0        0       0         0                      7
5.4-DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVED IMPLEMENTS        No.    2000       30      30        0        38       21001       2100-1
6-ANIMAL HUSBAMORY
__________________
6.1-CATTLE EXCHANGE                             No.     100       0        0       0         0         100         100
6.2-SUPPLY OF FEED                             No.      200       0        0       0         0          900        200
6.3-A.I.FACILITIES AT VETY.HOSPITAL            No.         1      0        0       0         0           1           I
6.4-A.I.FACILITIES AT S.M.CENTRES              No.        4       0        0       0         0           4           4
6.5-FEED & FODDER STORE AT V.H/S.M.C.           No.        c      0        0       0         0           2           2
6.6-ANIMAL HEALTH COVERAGE AT V.H/S.,.C.       No.        8       0       0        0         0          11          11
6.7-DISTRIBUTION OF FODDER SEED 1-KHARIF        No.    3100   1500    1500         0      1400        3320        3820
MINIKITS                     2-RABI        No.    3100   2125    2125          0     2125         6675       6675
6.8-PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                         Ha.      47   1155                 0       156         532         532
6.9.1-SUPPLY OF THRASHERS                 1;   No.        4       0        0       0         0          11          11
6.9.2-SUPPLY OF CHAFF CUTTERS                   No.     200       0        0       0         0         180         180
6.9.3-SUPPLY OF FEED TROUGHS                   No.      200       0       0        0         0         830        830
6.9.4-SUPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPERS                 No.        0       0       0        0         0         300        300
6.10-SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERS    No.    1130          0       0        0         0         413        413
SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE ( CALF DAYS 700 )              0      84      84        0        96         490        490
6.11-ESTT.OF N.B.C./S.M.CENTRES ( 3 Part)    No.          3       0       0        0         0           a           8
6.12-PURCHASE OF BULLS                         No.        2       0       0        0         0          27         27
6.13-NATURAL SERVICE THROUGH N.B.C.3ULLS       L.S.   3750        0       0        0         0        1508        1508
6.14-SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENTS                      No.       20       0       0        0         0           3           3
6.15-SUPPLY OF MILCH CATTLE                    No.       75       0       0        0         0          30         30
7-ENERGY CONSERVATION
_____________________
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAS                           No.    3000       25      25        0        25        1047       1047
7.2-IO GAS PLANTS                             No.       20      10       10       0        10          94         94
7.3-SOLAR COOKER                               No.       50       0       0        0         0          50         50
7.4-PRIYAGNI ANGITHIS                          No.    3500    800       800        0         0        8268       8268
7.5.-SUPPLY OF PRESSURE COOKERS                No.       15       0       0        0         0          15         15
7.6-SUPPLY OF KIROSIN STOVE                    No.        0       0       0        0         0         525        525
7.7-SUPPLY OF COMMUNITY STOVE                  No.        0       0       0        0         0          50         50
8-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
8.1-WATER TANK                                 No.        0       0       0        0         0          20         20
8.2-WATER HARVESTING TANK                      No.        0       7       7        0         7          57         57
8.3-PUCCA DAMS                                 No.        0       1       1        0         1          16         16
-----------------------------------------------------------------------_____----       ___---------------------_



E2J
()Ic ,  [2)                                  3)         C4 ) c11                 C 7 E)    8)I        C?)
, IGRICULTURE
_____________
5.1-FIELD TRIALS                               No.   2S26   308Q    S080         0      31?      31994       31984
5.2-DISTRIBUTION OF SEED  2INIKITS             No.    .725      25       5        0        25       544S        5445
5.3-CONSTRUCTION OF INPUT GODOWN               No.                        0       0         0           9          9
5.4-DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVED IMPLEMENTS        No.    2000      ;0       30       0        38      2100l       2100l
6-ANIMAL HUSBAMDRY
__________________
S..1-CATTLE EXCHANGE                           No.      100      0        0       0         0         100         100
6.2-SUPPLY OF FEED                             No.      200      0        0       0         0         200        200
6.3-A.I.FACILITIES AT VETY.HOSPITAL            No.       -1      0        0       0         0           1           1
6.4-A.I.FACILITIES AT S.M.CENTRES              No.        4      0        0       0         0           4          4
6.5-FEED & FODDER STORE AT V.H/S.M.C.          No.        S      0        0       0         0           2          2
6.6-ANIMAL HEALTH COVERAGE AT V.H/S.fl.C.      No.        8      0        0       0         0          11         11
6.7-DISTRIBUTION OF FODDER SEED 1-KHARIF       No.    3100   1S00    1500         0      1400       3820        3820
MINIKITS '                   2-RABI        No.    3100   2125    Z1Z5         0      2125       6675        6675
6.8-PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                        Ha.       47    155      155       0       156         532        532
6.9.1-SUPPLY OF THRASHERS                t;   No.         4      0        0       0         0          11         11
6.9.2-SUPPLY OF CHAFF CUTTERS                  No.      200      0        0       0         0         180        180
6.9.3-SUPPLY OF FEED TROUGHS                   No.      200      0        0       0         0         830        830
6.9.4-SUPPLY OF GRASS CHOPPERS                 No.        0      0        0       0         0         300        300
6.10-SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE TO C.B.HEIFERS    No.    1130         0        0       0         0         413        413
SUPPLY OF CONCENTRATE ( CALF DAYS .00 )              0     84       84       0        96        490         490
6.11-ESTT.OF N.B.C./S.M.CENTRES ( 3 Part)    No.          3      0        0       0         0           8          8
6.12-PURCHASE OF BULLS                         No.        2      0        0       0         0          27         27
6.13-NATURAL SERVICE THROUGH N.B.C.BULLS       L.S.   3750       0        0       0         0        1508       1508
6.14-SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENTS                      No.       20      0        0       0         0           3          3
6.15-SUPPLY OF MILCH CATTLE                    No.       75      0        0       0         0          30         30
7-ENERGY CONSERVATION
_____________________
7.1-SMOKELESS CHULAS                           No.    3000      25       25       0        2S        1047       1047
7.2-BIO GAS PLANTS                             No.       20      10      10       0        10          94         94
7.3-SOLAR COOKER                               No.       50      0        0       0         0          50         50
7.4-PRIYAGNI ANGITHIS                          No.    3500    800       800       0         0       8268        8268
7.5-SUPPLY OF-PRESSURE COOKERS                'No.      -15      0        0       0         0          15         15
7.6-SUPPLY OF KIROSIN STOVE                    No.        0      0        0       0         0         525        525
7.7-SUPPLY OF COMMUNITY STOVE -                No.        0      0        0       0         0          50         50
8-DRINKING WATER SUPPLY
8.1-WATER TANK                                 No.        0      0        0       0         0          20         20
8.2-WATER HARVESTING TANK                      No.        0      7        7       0         7         57          57
8.3-PUCCA DAMS                                 No.        0      1        1       0         1          16         16
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________-_______



HIMlALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCHO1993          ANNEXURE-'
MACHLAD SUBWATERSHED: PHYSICAL PROGR SS            APPENDIX-6(i)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                            UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGEr          ACHIEVEMENT (92-93)
TARGET      19;9-'?3       DURPIN      TILL END      CUMULATIVE
APPR'AISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL          TILL
PERIOD    PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
t11                                   12)    E3)        I4)    15)        E63       [7)       CS)         193
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------------------------
1-FORESTRY PLANTATION
____________________
1.1 A-FUELUOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.         1749       0        0       0          0        1749        1749
P,-FUELUDOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST        Ha.     1438       0        0        0         0         1438       1438
1 .2 A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST           Ha.      263      0         0       0          0         263         263
B-FODOER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND         Ha.      618       0        0        0         0          618         o18
1.3-FAR,1 FORESTRY                              Ha.    5600         0        0       0          0        5600        5600
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND                 Ha.      350    170        170       0       170          786         786
,1.5-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                    Ha.      350    170       170        0       171         662         662
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES                    Ha.      240    140        140       0       140          351         351
2-SOIL CONSERVATION
2.1-BRUSHUOOD STONE CHECK DAM                    No.     1644    150       150        0       150        2599        25?'
2.2-CRATEWIRE DAM                                No.      440      86       86        0        86         813         8;13
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                               No.       22       0        0        0         0          26          26
2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES          Ha.       12      Z0       20        0        20           60          60
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES              Ha.       *0     30        30        0        43         173         173
REPAIR OF AFRICULTURAL TERRACES ( Rmtr)  No.            0      0        0        0.        0           45          45
3-HORTICULTURE
______________
3.1-TOP WORKING                                  Ha.      212       0        0       0          0         238         238
3.2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                    Ha.      168     40       40        0        40          258         258
3.3-REJUVENATION CF OLD ORCHARDS                 Ha.       75     20       20        0        20          119         119
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS       ( PLAI!TS,00 ,       No.      1 53    SO       80        0        80          708         708
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS           No.       20    200      200        0       200          517         5'17
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
_________________
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                                No.       78       0        0        0         0         138         138
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                          ,t r    8820      0         0       0          0      -11020       11020
____  - --- - - - -- - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - -- _ _  - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -- ----__ _ _



HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORT HALF YEAR ENDING MARCH.1993          ANNEXURE-4
MACHLAD SUSWATERSHED: PHYSICAL PROGRESS            APPENDIX-6(i)
PROJECT ACTIVITY                            UNIT PROJECT ANNUAL TARGET.         ACHIEVEMENT (?2-93)
TARGET      1992-?3        DURIN5    TILL END        CUMULATIVJE
APPRAISAL REVISED REPORTING REPORTING TILL           TILL
PERIOD    PERIOD   SEP.92  MARCH.93
E )213                                        C3Z  t14          15t4]     t6]       C7)       Cs]         19)
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------------------------
-FOPRESTRY PLANTATION
1.1 A-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN RESERVED FOREST Ha.        174?       0        0        0         0        1749         1749
B-FUELWOOD PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST         Ha.      1438       0       0        0         0         1438        143a
1.2 A-FODDER PLANTATION IN C/S FOREST            Ha.      263       0        0        0         0         263         263
B-FODDER PLANTATION IN PRIVATE LAND         Ha.      618       0        0        0         0         618          o18
1.3-FARM FORESTRY                               Ha.    5600         0       0        0         0        5600         5600
1.4-PLANTATION ON DEGRADED LAND                 Ha.      3S0    170        170       0       170         786          786
U3        1.S-PLANTATION IN BLANK LAND                     Ha.      350     170      170        0       171         662         662
1.6-PLANTATION NEAR VILLAGES                    Ha.      240      140      140       0       140         351          351 -
2-SOIL CONSERVATION
2.1-BRUSHWOOD STONE CHECK DAM                    No.     1644    1J0       150        0       1S0        2559        2S9
2.2-CRATEWIRE OAM                                No.      440      86       S6        0       86          813         813
2.3-DROP STRUCTURE                             No.       22       0        0        0         0          26           26
2.4-VEGETATIVE REHABELITATION
OF ABANDONED AGRICULTURAL TERRACES          Ha.        12     20       20        0        20           60          60
2.5 REPAIR OF AGRICULTURAL TERRACES              Ha.       50      30       30        0       43          173         173
REPAIR OF AFRICULTURAL TERRACES ( RAitr)  NH.           0       0       0        0.        0           45          45
3-HORTICULTURE
______________
3.1-TOP WORKING                                  Ha.      212       0        0        0         0         238         2S8
3.2-ESTT. OF PRIVATE ORCHARDS                    Ha.      168      40       40       0        40          258         258
3.3-REJUVENATION CF OLD ORCHARDS                 Ha.       75      20                         20 0119                 119
3.4-HOMESTEAD ORCHADS       ( PLANTS00           No.      1S       SO      80        0        so          708         708
3.5-DISTRIBUTION OF HORTICULTURE TOOLS           No.       20    2G0      200        0       200          517         517
4-MINOR IRRIGATION
4.1-STORAGE TANKS                                No.       78       0       0        0         0          138         138
4.2-IRRIGATION CHENNALS                          Mtr    a32c        0       0        0         0        11020       110Z0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



1MAA  R1IlHl S.U.S.    WESI 16596I 8 I IA VJ PAYM  S.U.S.    NM    S.11.S.                   1014.
TWlII1C1 CWIFI)Vlis                      FIIOECT LAST  THIS   NOJCT  LAST  Hiels  MUWET  LAST THIS  PSOJCI  LAST  THIS   MAOVC  LAST  tHis
1.Fri.if. A%:KS                         T60CCT  SfN4 SPA     16001  SPAS   SPAR   1I'LTI  gIIPA               60C   hW SPSMGTWM W   14GTGS?   AN4  SPAR
1                        ~~~~~~14  IS     1  It         1 t     19        70     ZI    22      23 '24   25           26      27      28
1.1 Stll r5.Ilry                        500    4869   5030  16450  16322  8079. 10000, 11051  12467   5000  24194  21129  80133 116921 121309
1:2 OpraTjiilcot                          900    934    95    2150   2911   M340~ .100   2M8    2181   320    6276   6933  17000  2672   289)3
.43 C~jivil We i,                        ?Au#     40      40  -2750    816    8146   3000 2?          2583   2600   22211   M11  1160  13881  U348
:.4 EPiiil-at& Furitue          60      18      76   .330    311    311    350         11    211    350    492    510   2020   2152  *2170
SUB FiiI!td              6310   5CI?    6101  22300  20420  22606  15150  16432  18048  21 150  33973  36183 1183  159684 112340
I F.re.try                  ~~~~~~11824  16821   6859  45128  45336  46084  31739  2'9145  29246  54644  598100  60344 246454 216405 278019
Z.2 TArI C.......ti..                      894   3155   3755   3469   180    1821   2549   5694   5694   7718  15678  15618  2209   51486  51502
?.3 II. rt.ic.jIur,                        501   1312   1312   1162   3909   3910    951   258    2588   2626   3695   3695  10604  20091  20094
Z.4.A,.Icullure                            1040   2113   2113 273    6 85Ml   6852   3240   3134   3143  3r80   6845   6145  20361  3092   30938
_.4?In*r i,tij8)@                         1716   1714   1114   5349   1315   331 5   4613   1821   I821   8915   4611   4677  3085  23457  23451
2.1 fw aI%I  1i,s djmry                   8461   5221   5??6  1SIC   12116  13474  10746   6740   6745  I63M   16744  1688   9708   711245  75619
.7Eaerty C.ns.rvati..                    300    '48    144    400   185 1   1851    4C'0   134    136          50 1601   1601   2800)   337   9331
2.8 TriflIn anUter                          01  1143   1343          a   269I   2691        0   2303   2303        0    138   6138        0  19695  19695
Ir.inia~~~~~~~~               0       6       6       0     21      21       0      23     23       0       0      0    190    16        164
7.2P. ~ac,-                                                -       -      -                                     -       -       - 5036   3238   3238
SFill 10(.              243101  33113  33236  74136  15055  A601A  54444  VO8)   52516  94410 115115 115863 435456 513043 515063
1. s-.!4.n.. iC.P.,)1
I ~~~1'a(f S~~~~~~liri,~~~~  -           -             -                -              -       - ~~~~~~~4650   5895   Mo,
3.2 0i4atinj Cost                             -                              -     -       -       -                              - 1132   4331   4715
3.3 f~iI.f  Warl                                                                                                                      13850  18190  18190
3.4C.wijiMnt .5 FqirniI'r                                             -      -     -       --e                                         1000   '653   1653
',.5 f..rlal Ih!.rpy-                                         -       --                   -       -       -       -       -      - 18150   1619   1914
i.6. vehicle                                                                                                                           7500   6320   6320
3.7 Wlork                                                                                                                                 0    9"8    998
SUB TOIAL                    0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0  305823966644051
.   itItLevel lPavril
4.1 51U.S11  ari,s                -.     '           -        -       -     -      -       -       -       --                      - 5450  11187  12650
4.2 O!'Iting Cost                                                                                                                    1000   643       f
1.3       Well                                                                                             -       .                    230   32%    32
44 4..r,ki.esnt A Figinito,                                    .      -      ..    -       -                                            3)i   1012   1080
4 :,, Wori  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                              --                  1442 147i
4 ler.pa.ory Pro-Iraaae 
Reserve                             --                            -       -                              -       -21500   1030   1030
SubTIM lufL0                                0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       .0      0314555  24419  260
I. Stiff ~4lMii,5                                                    -     ..     -       .      -        .                      -   4100   3182   3500
5.- fJl,ratia'  ("iSt                                         -              --                                    -       -       -    690   1967   2103
~.  Csil Uor 10)I                                    -                                             -        -      -       -         - 7        20      200
".4 F.U'i.      .,1.,.                                        -                                            -       -       -      -     150    445    465
.5 IJo                                                     -                                             -      -       -       -      0    133    163-
SO   TOIft.                 0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0  589059216431
6. fva;uati.f Coll Lr.0/CCF Iffill)
Ir,1a1                                                                                                                               ONi~.- -          0    1559   1713
6.2 I'j-p'ritiu   Cost                                                       .     .        .      .                                    500    813    8644
62. (mm- I t*.t A Furniture                          -                                                                                  2             50    300    300
SLIP101AL                   1)      *       0       1       ( 0     0a         0       0       00         0       0   1550 -2673   290
I.1  .11. pAurs                                     .        .      -      -                                                         11 141  11744  11)144
*  ... .!. 4kaa                                             -       .            -       -               --                         11144  111744  111744
I Jr.  i;.i. E-lxtci,,.um                          .       -       -      -     -       -                                           2143   2943   2943
slat (114.                  0 .)            0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0.,0            02Z6434 26431 26431.
:mfry 0es.Is9"ont                            .                                  -         -                                            375    37651  31651
StFA4 TOTAL                  3      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0  32517  3165137NW
r~ReJ.10 1(4.            '062n  39114  23217  17736 105475 l004.5  69594  69323  70764 115M0  149151 152646 6838,14 809494 826869



-                         ~~~~86
NAYAd RIGli1 S.1J.S.    WEST flTMA  S.W.S.  P1JRVI NYAY  S.W.S.    IAIM   S.11.S.              TOIAL
i9I.i11cf CU11~,01rs                      PROJECT LAST  THIS  PROJECT  LAST THIS  PROJECT  LAST THIS  PROJECT  LAST  TIHIS  PROJECT  LAST  THlIS
B'Fr CF. WO*AS                         TAMCET  SF1N1  SPAN   TWCGE]  SPAN   SPAI4  TARGET  SPAN SPAN4  TARGET  SF14   spAN1  IARGET   sr14w  spAN
1                         ~~~~~~14  I',    i6           18      19        20O     21  22         23   24   25          26      27      25
1.1 C111I S1[uy                          500 0   '1867   5030  16450  163?2  18079  IM00   11051  12467  1500   24974  2712   80133  MM92  127309
1.2 1qjoraflIV.D5                          700    934    953   2750   2911   3340"  1800   2587   2787   3200   6216   6933  17000  26124  289/3
1. ICvil %o?                               25r70    40      40  -2750    876    876   3000   2581   2583   2600   2211   2211  17680  13887  M387
1.4 F,-phn  & Frtirnitiure                 MO.    78        78    330    311    311    3mo    211    211    350    492    510   2020   2152   2170
01 fl 111(1               63103  59Y?    6101  22300  20420  2260    15150  16432104   21150  33973  36783 116833 1596814 172340
'..I FArt~try                             11824  16821  16059  45128  45336  46004  31739  29145  29246  54644  59800  60344 246454 276405 278019
Z2. .;I I Conservatjori                    B34   3153   3755   346?   7805   1821   2549   56?4   5694   7718g  15678  15675  22093  51484  51502
?.3    ,t II licsILu r e                    503    M37    1172   1162   3909   3910    951   2588   2588   2626   3695   3695  10604  20091  20014
c    3icIre                        1040   2173   2173   2623   6851   6852   3240   3134   3143   3580   6845   6845  20367  30925  30938
S Il5'inir IrlilAIion                     I12)    1714   171    5349   1315   3315   4613   1827   1827   8985   4677   4677  3082   23457  23451
A.C  1c'4  thi,bin'rs-                   8467   5221   5226  152C5)  ln?76   13141746   6740   6745  16397  16744  168                 787  72 5 761
"7fner)iy (cnmevla                         Kl Io  '48    141    '100)  1651   1851    400   1346   136    500   1601   1601   2800   9337   9337
?.8  ,iinIIII  W-iter                        0    I.83   1383        0   369I  2691          0   2303   2303         0   6138   6138        0  19695  19695
2 Q(d,iW eJIS14d Irai.Jent
Ira 3Ind,r                                0       6      6       0      21      21       0      23      23       0       0      0    190    164    164
l)I'e,,r                                         -        -       -      -      -              -                   --               5036   3238   3238
Sli*01(1!.0              24310  33173  33236  74736  05055  M60M   54444  52800  52516  94450 115178  MM86  435456 513043 515063
I   II! S~~~~Iari,i                      -      -       -       -        -       -       -       - ~~~~~ 4650   5895   6601
20* r3  n, Cost--                                                     -      -                                                           1732   4331   4115
j 3.3C1    Warl                                                                                                                          13850  187l0  18790
3.4 F.j'ipment I Futrniture                            --                     -      -       -       -        -       --   1000   1653   1653
3.5 Aerial PIostro~raphy                      -       -                        .     -       -       -        -       -      -       - 1850   1679   19/4
*32.  V e!ile I                                                 -       -                    -       -I                      - -          7500   6320   6320
3.1 work-                                                              -      -                      -        -       -                      0     M       99
RI.B 0l14.                   0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0  3058239666  41051
4. l)ist,ict Level (Payri)
4.1 stAff SlAcIAcI                    ,.      -       -       .-       -      -      -       -                                            5450  11187  12650
4.2 1cr3iqCost-..,                                                     -      ;      -       -                                            1000   6432   It 15
i1.  Cilil llor;                              -                                              -       .        --23                                26 36
41.4  A.'InPt7 Furen,iture                    -                                                                      -        -      -     315   1072   1080
4.~' Work                                                                                                                                    0   1442   1478
PpstArve7-                                                  -       -      -      -       --                       -       -          27500   1030   1030
ISUBl)e  1014                        0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0  34555  2N4M   26609
I.evel.t~   (AlLhorAl
, 'tar( CAl, ici                                            -                                             -400   3182   3500
ulefating (0-                                                                              -      -       -       -     690   1967   2103
'. CIM  "1orl                                       -        -       -      -      -                        -       -      -       -     250    200    200
4Fp  I  ui   &  urn, tur.                                                                                                               150    445    465
5Wo r I.                                                                                               ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 133    163-
SEUBTOTAL                    (3      0     0         0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0  589059276431
6. tf-i;valion Coll 1L:O/CCF HIMil
..I -:.tL1r Silwrei                                  .                             -       -       --                                     0      MsY    1143
b.;f ''ippALiwi Cnsl.                                                                        -                                             500    113    864
t6.  Fqu~ip mt..t A. Fufnirttre                                         -      .     -               --250    300    300
-  -  -  -        -                -      -       -       ~~      ~~     ~~~0  I  
uF4 01(1                                   (       0       (1      1       0       13      0      0       0       0  1550 -2673  2708
I LII1. Fce-1 I                                              .       -     --                     -        --                      -11744  11744  11/44
II!V. A1lu-,A                                              --                                                            -       -11744  11744  11744
.1. W.I, L'rIA.lunl                                                                                                                2943   2943   2943
cIIlfl rI(1.                 0       .3      0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0  26431  26431  26431
'~~:i, De,.l,~~~~~~*~enl    -       -      -             -                -               -       - ~~~~~~~32'517  37651  37651
9fil MIAL                   0)       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0  32517  37651  37651
(,Rro'.'  10114          '0620  39,114  37337  97236 105475 10Pi,?  65594  69F3?  707,64 15600 149151 152646 6838614 809494 828489



87
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loa0/Credit lltb                 Purpoe                       Year of       Status                 Comments
Approval
Kandi Watershed and Area         To tackle the degrdation       1980        Closed 1988            PCR cits one benefit as
Development Project (Punjab) (Ln.  problem of the Himalayan sub-                                   the geneadon of a grat
1897-IN)                         mountainous zone in Punjab.                                       number of lsons relevant
for smiar projects.
Rainfed Ares Watershed           Pilot project to increase crop  1933        Ongoing               Quality of imnplmentation
Development Project              and forge yields and                                              varies coniderably
(Cr. 1424-IN)                    production of fuelwood and                                        between Stes.
timber.
Integrated Watershed Development  Waternhed development         1990         Onpoing
(Plains) Project                 through stabiliation of selected
(Cr. 2131-N, Ln. 3197-IN)        watershed.
Integrated Watershed Deveopment  Remedial measures to slow and   1991        Ongoing               Supervision cites need to
(Hills) Proect                   reverse degradation of the                                        improve peoples
(Cr. 2100-N, Ln. 3175-IN)        natural environment of the                                        puticipaton in project
Himalayan Fooshill and                                           implementaon
improve agriculturl
production.
2. Project Timetable
Activity                          Planned                     Revised                  Actual
Identification                                                                         GOUP - November 1979
Prepartion                                                                             GOUP - November 1980
Pre-apprairal                                                                          November 1931
Loan Negotiations                                                                      27 Apdl 1983
Board Approval                                                                         31 May 1983
Lam Siging                                                                             8 June 1983
Lon Effecdveness                  19 August 1983                                       9 September 1983
Lan Closing                       30 September 1990           30 September 1991        30 September 1992
Lan Compltion                                                                          18 February 1993
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
IBRD FIscal Year            1984     1915    1986    1987        1988      1919      1990      1991      1992    1993
(I July . 30 June)
Apprisal Estimate           0.22     1.22     3.42     7.52      14.82     27.82     40.07     4620
Actual                      0.12     0.85     2.40     5.76      8.00      12.81     17.50     21.89     26.72    28.3
Actualas *of Etimate        55       70       70       77        54        46        44        47        58       61
Firal Disbursement on 18
Febmary 1993
Comments: US$16 million of the World Bank loan was cancelled and US$1.9 million
undisbursed was cancelled on 18 February 1993.



88
4. Project Implementation
Iaiu              ~~~~~U.Ik     Appuuhl          Rff*ed Bodaw          Acn  mF
El_maw              at hem     Et11  o
(a) PHYUCAL TAROMI
Waterheds Devioped                      No.                 2                     2                 2
Sub-Watersheds Developed                No.                 9                     8                 8
Microwatersheds Developed               No.                83                    75                75
Aea Developed                            ha            312,000               247,000
Fuelwood Plantations                     ha             59,000                31,679            40,253
Fodder Pantations                        ha             27A00                  4,226            4,226
Farm Foretry                             ha             81,000                17,891            17,891
Brushwood/Check Dam                     No.              1,650                22360             29,717
Crat Wire Dams                          No.              1,300                 3,718             7,941
Drop Structures                         No.               700                   143               222
Improved Terraces                        ha              6,000                 6,000             2,914
Cattle Exchanp                          No.             10,500                  250               250
Dispensaries (Improvement)              No.                40                     0                 0
Top Working of Fruit Treer               ha              3,900                 3,900             1,078
Fruit Orchards                           ha              1,500                 1,500             2,389
Lining of Channels                      km                250                   250                89
Storae Tanks                            No.               650                   650               901
(b) YMIDS
(1) laMas.tal Pangs7, & As
*-0~
Fuetwood Plntation                  tons/ha           0.--3                                   0.5-2
Fodder Plantation                   tons/ha           2-4                                      1-4
Fuchvood Plantation                 tons/ha          23.48                                     13.1
Fodder Plntation                    tons/ha            18                                      9.9
Farm Foreatry                       tons/ha            5                                    Negligible
FPadder
Fuchwod Plantation                  tons/ha          0.1-0.5                                   0.5
Fodder Plantation                   tons/ha           1-5                                     0.4-2.1
Uninpaed   Irptd                        Unrigated   Irillood
(With Prect)                            (With Prject)
Local                                kg/ha       1,000      1,000
HYV                                  kg/ha       1,400      2,000                       2,000       3,000
-Mai
Local                                kg/ha        800        800                         na.         na.
HYV                                  kg/ha       1,400      2,000                        na.         n.a.
Mnibt (Rao
Local                                kg/ha        900        900                          -
Improved                             kg/ha       1,200      1,200                       1,200
- Giwer                                kg/ha       4,000      5,000                        n.a1 n.a.
- P_ke                                 kg/ha        800       1,000                        na.        1,000
- Soymbca                             kg/ha        500        500                        2,000
-Wht
Local                                kg/ha       1,000      1,000                        n-          n-
HYV                                  kg/ha       1,200     2,000                        1,800       2,400
- Baedq                                kg/ha       1,200      1,200                        na.         na.
- pen                                  kg/ha          0       1,000                        na.        1,800
- Oileeds (Migard)                     kg/ha        600        900                         700        1,000
Soume  SAR. MTR and Project Offrces Paun and Almoa.



89
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Per SAR                       Aaual 1/
CaIl    Foreign    Toal   LAl 2/  Foirip 2/   Total  SAR ctul ate
- -US n        ail.)       -      -USS mio)
Uttar Pludah
Porestry                             23.2        0.2      23.4                           17.1           73
Soil Conservation                     3.7        0.1       3.8                            2.5           66
Livestock                             6.2                  6.2                            5.2           84
Agriculture                           0.8                  0.8                            1.7          213
Horticulture                          1.8                  1.8                            1.1          61
Minor Irrigation                      1.9                  1.9                            1.8           95
Administration                        6.6        0.1       6.7                           13.1          196
Research                              0.2                  0.2                            0.3         1S0
Energy Conservation                                                                       0.4
Drinking Water                                                                            0.9
Price and Physical Contingencies     21.9        0.3      22.2                                          0
Sub-total                            66.3        0.7      67                             44.1           66
Centma Adminiardtu
Capital and Operating Costs           1.2                  1.2                            0             0
Price and Physical Contingencies      0.8                  0.8                            0             0
Sub-total                             2                    2                                            0
Pivt End Pee                                                .1                             01           100
Total Cost                             683         0.7     69.1                           44.2           64
1/ Actual costs include contingencies.
2/ The breakdown between local and foreign exchange related costs is not available but the foreign exchange costs
were likely to be very small.



90
B. Project Financing
Planed 1/        Rcvd           Actual 2/      Actual _ % af
Rd Estm_
- - - USS milo.) -  ...
IBRD
(1) Uttar P1ade
Equipment and Vehicles               0.85            1.20             1.08             90
Civil Works                          1.96            2.96             2.99            101
Forest and Horticulture             26.03           16.03            16.58            103
Soil Conservation                    4.16            3.16             2.06             65
Cattle Exchange                      5.61            0.61             0.46             75
Minor Irrigation                     2.06            0.71             0.67             94
Incr. Operating Costs                4.08            4.08             3.91             96
Research, M&E                        0.25            0.25             0.23             92
(2) TMe Bomcer
Equipment and Vehicles               0.06            0.06             0.03             50
Incr. Staff Operating Costs          0.40            0.40             0.14             35
Project Evaluation                   0.54            0.54             0.03              6
(3) Fee                               0.12            0.12             0.12             100
(4) Unallted                          0.08            0.08             0.00               0
Sub-otal                            462             30.2             283               94
GOUP                                  181            18.              16.0               as
GOI                                    1.0            1.0              0                  0
Total                               660            S5O               443               89
1/ Estimated net of taxes and duties.
2/ US16 million of the WB loan was cancelled thus leaving US51.9 million undisbursed.



91
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Pcr SAR   Rcvied   Actua or                                  s
PCR Esimte
EMLOYNT CRtEAnON
Permanent Jobs Created         n.a.                 900      Most of these were in the forestry department staff for the
project.
Total Man-days              46 million               n.a.    No figures are available but it is generally agmeed the
project created a lot of casual work particulary forestry
and soil conservation components.
FARM WNCONES
Incremetal  Ch Ime
Irrigated (Rs'O00/ha)          I
) 6    There was a significant improvement in returns from
nraa0)  lentil improved dryland wheat and peas.
B. Economic Impact
Pcr SAR   Revised    Actual or          Comments
(%)       (%)         PCR
Estimate
(%)
Ewocom  Rate of Rctum (ERR):
Forestry                         24                     4.9            See footnote 2 below.
(8.5 if administrative costs are excluded).
Extension                      over 100                n.a.            1/
Horticulture                     35                    n.a.            1/
Irrigation                       64                    n.a.            1/
Whole Project                    23                    n.a.            V
1/ According to current prctice, no ERR recalculation has been made for extension activities and lack of data regarding the
area and number of beneficiaries made it impossible to calculate revised ERRs for the horticulture and irrigation
components and, thus, the whole project. The small-scale irrigation component was abandoned at MTR. The impact
analysis has therefore been restricted to a financial level using crop and farm budgets (see Appendices I and 2). These
show that the project participants enjoyed much enhanced financial benefit under the project.
2/ The low ERR from the forestry component is due to several factors. First, the appraisal yields were too optimistic
and did not adequately take into account the terrain, climatic and soil types as well as the fact that most of the plantations
would likely be harvested before full maturity because of the demand pressure for firtwood, etc. Secondly, the plantation
establishment costs were generally too high with average planting of only S to 12 trees per man-day compared with a normal
averge of about 36 trees. Thirdly, there was a very high mortality ratc of the trees planted.



92
7. Status of Covenants
C"AMEM  Subjcd                  Deadlie kw                   Stats
LA 4.03      Identification of institutions for evaluation and  30 September 1983  In compliance.
studies.
LA 4.04       Complete a mid-term review.                       9 December 1986   Submitted during March 1988.
LA 4.05      Appoint a Watershed Development Commissioner in  30 September 1983  In compliance.
the Watershed Development Council and create
adequate staff positions in the Council.
PA 2.09       Prepare an outline and work plan for research and  30 September 1983  In compliance, but quality of
carry out the research in cooperation with institution               research support was
satisfactory to the Bank.                                            unsatisfactory.
PA 3.01 B     Furnish Audit Report immediately following its           -           In compliance.
finalization.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Sta  of    PM-
Prect Cydce  FY81  FY81  FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87  FYM   FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92 FY93 Totl
ldentification/  69.1   15.8   73                                                                        157.9
Preparation
Appraisal                     1.4  38.1                                                                   39.5
Negotiations                        25                                                                     25
Supervision                              28.4  60   23    30.7   12.7  11    10.3    55    7.4  4.2  193.2
Total          69.1   15.8   744 406  21L4  60   23    30.7  12.7  11    103    53    7.4  42X  39.1



93
B. Missions
Month/      No of   Dqs in       Spedalk;          Pezfoeaaw        Tpm of
Staed of Pict Cyde           Year      ?esom       Fied        Repmsitd        Ratig Slaba      Pftble=
a/               b/             C/
Pre-appraisal                    Dec. 81        6         26      FE, WM, LU, A           -               -
Detailed Preparation             Mar. 82        4         15        FE, A, LO, S          -               -
Commissioning                     Oct. 83       S         13      FE, A, A, LO, A                         -
Supervision                       May 84        3         5           A,A, E              2             M, T
Supervision                      Nov. 84        6         10      S, A, AA, F, H          2             M,T
Supervision                       Jun.185       4         6         WM, H, A, F          2/3             M
Seasonal Operations               Nov. 85       4         11        WM, F, H, A
Supervision                       Jan.86        3         11         WM, H, A             3             M,T
Supervision                       Jun. 86       3         12         WM, H, A             3             M, T
Extension Organization           Aug. 86        3         5              A
Horticultural Development         Sep.86        1         4              H
Review                            Oct. 86       1         S
Rcsearch Review                  Nov. 86        2         4                               -
Supervision                      Nov. 86        3         5          WM, F, SS            3             M,T
Supervision                      Nov. 87        3         5          WM, H, SS            3              M
Review                            May 88        3         14         F, SS, EX            -              -
Supervision                      Aug. 88        3         5            H, SS              3             M, T
Supervision                      Nov. 88        3         6           WM, EX             2,3            M,I
Supervision                      Apr. 89        3         6          WM, H, 1            2, 3           M,I
Supervision                      Dec. 89        3         5           A, H, 1            2, 2           M,I
Supervision                       Jun.90        3         5           A, A, H            3, 2           M,I
Supervision                      Dec. 90        3         5           A, A, W           3,2/3           M, I
Supervision                       Jul. 91       4         5          A, A, F, H          2, 2           M, I
Supervision                       Jan. 92       4         5          A, A, F, W          2, 2           M, I
Supervision                       Jul. 92       3         5           A, A, F            3, 2           M, I
a/ FE = Forest Economist; WM = Watershed Management; LU - Land Use; A = Agriculturalist;
LO = Loan Officer, S = Senior Staff; E - Economist; F = Forester; H = Horticulturalist;
SS = Soil Scientist; EX = Extension Specialist; I - Institutions Specialist; W = Women In Development.
b/ 1  Problem-free; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
c/ M = Managerial; T - Technical; I = Impact.



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 1: Typical One Hectare Farm Crop Model
Without Project                    With Project
Area     Met Return      Area      Net Return    lncrental
(ha)        (Rs)         (ha)          (Rs)          Retumr
____________   ____________(Rs)
1. Kharif
Dryland Rice (Uniffproved)                             0.50         180           0.22         79            (101)
Oryland Rice (Improved)                                 -             -           0.26        641             641
Irrigated Rice (Unimproved)                            0.05         69           -              -             (69)
Irrigated Rice (improved)                                            -           0.07        223              223
millet (Unimproved)                                    0.30         (93)                        -              93
Millet (Improved)                                                     -          0.05          23              23
Pulse (Unimproved)                                     0.15        919           0.10         613            (306)
Soya Beans (Improved)                                         -                  0.30      3,646            3,646
Sub-total                                                1.00       1,075           1.00      5,225           4,150
2. Rabi
Dryland Wheat (Unimproved)                             0.40        761            -             .            (761)
Dryland Wheat (Improved)                                              -           0.28      1,549           1,549
Irrigated Wheat (Uninproved)                           0.05        137           .                           (137)
Irrigated Wheat (Improved)                                           -           0.05        404              404
Lentil (Unimproved)                                    0.07        280                          .            (280)
Lentil (Improved)                                      .             .           0.13         685             685
Dryland Mustard (improved)                                                        0.11        583             583
Irrigated Mustard (Improved)                                         -           0.02         153             153
Peas (Unimproved)                                      0.03        255            -                          (255)
Peas (Improved)                                        -              -           0.06        983             983
Subtotal                                                 0.55       1,433           0.65      4.357           2,924
Total (1+2)                                                        2,508                      9.582           6,074



IWDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Comptetion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 1.  Per Hectare Crop Budget for New Citrus (250 plants/ha)
Year I       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4|   Year 5   |   Year 6   |   Year 7             Year 8        Year 9       Years 10-20
Returns
Yield (kg)                                                                                                      500        1,000         1,500              2,000
Price (Rs)                                                                                                        5             5            5                  5
Value (Rs)                                                                                                    2,500        5,000         7,500             10,000
Direct Costs
Plants, Fertilizers           2,000          545         500          690           875         1,065         1,250         1,440        1,625              2,000
and Crop Chemicals (Rs)
Met Return (Rs)                (2,000)        (545)       (500)        (690)         (875)       (1,065)        1,250         3,560        5,875              8,000
FamiLy Labour (days)             69           15          14           21            21            21            26            26           26                 26
Return Per Day (Rs)               (29)         (36)        (36)         (33)          (42)          (51)           U8           134          226                308
Finanial Rate of Return = 34X.



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 2.   Per Hectare Crop Budget for Drylfnd Rice
UiUniiproved (Without Project)                    Improved (With Project)
thni t                    I               I                              I                 I au-(s
Quantity  |  Price (Rs)  |  Value (Rs)         Quantity       Price (is)       Value (Es)
Returns
YieLd                                   kg             1,200              300           3,600         2,000                 3.0          6,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                    kg                85                3.3           281            100                3.3            330
FYN                                     kg             3,000                0.5         1,500         3,000                 0.5          1,500
Urea                                    kg                 5                3.0            15             15                3.0             45
DAP                                     kg                  -               8.6             -             25                8.6            215
KCI                                     kg                 -                1.7             -                               1.7              -
Crop Chemicals                         kg/I                 -             210               -              -              210                -
Tools                                  No.                 1               45              45              1               45               45
Bullock                               days                20               70           1,400             20               70            1,400
Hired Labour                          days                  -              25               -              -               25
Total Direct Costs                                                                        3,241                                            3,535
Met Return                                                                                  359                                            2,465
Family Labour                         days                82                                             98
Return to Family Laour                                                                        4                                               25
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Comptetion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 3.   Per Hectare Crop Budget for Irrigated Rice
Without Project                                   With Project
tlnit         Ouantity   | Price (Rs)  I  Value (Rs)           Quantity       Price (Rs)  |  Value (Rs)
Returms
Yield                                   kg              2,000               3.0         6,000           3,000                3.0          9,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                    kg                 25               3.3             83              25               3.3             83
FYN                                     kg             3,000                0.5         1,500           3,000                0.5          1,500                 -4
Urea                                    kg                  5               3.0             15              25               3.0             75
DAP                                     kg                  -               8.6              -              50               8.6            430
KCL                                     kg                                  1.7              -              20               1.7             34
Crop Chemicals                         kg/l                               210                -               -             210                -
Toots                                   No.                 1              45               45               1             45                45
Butlock                                days                30              70           2,100               30              70            2,100
Hired Labour                           days                35              25              875              62              25            1,550
Total Direct Costs                                                                        4,618                                             5,817
Met Return                                                                                 1,382                                            3,183
Family Labour                          days               100                                              100
Return to Fmily Labour                                                                        14                                               32
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 4.   Per Nectare Crop Owbet for Soya Beans
Vith Project
Ouantity       Price (Rs)         Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                       kg                2,000                 8.0           16,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                        kg                   75                 8.8              660
FYN                                         kg                1,500                 0.5             750                                 Co
Urea                                        kg                                      3.0                -
DAP                                         kg                   75                 8.6              645
KCL                                         kg                     -                1.7                -
Crop Chemicals                             kg/I                   0.2             210                 42
Tools                                      No.                                     45                  -
Butlock                                    days                  25                70              1,750
Hired Labour                               days                   -                25                  -
Total Direct Costs                                                                                   3,847
Net Return                                                                                          12,153
Family Labour                              days                  84
Return to Faily Labour (Rs/day)                                                                        145



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Tabte 5.   Per Hectare Crop Budget for Millet (Ragi)
Without Project                                     With Project
t_____ni_____t___  Ouantity      Price (Rs)       Value (Rs)        Quantity        Price (Rs)      Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                    kg                  800                 2.0          1,600            1,200               2.0          2,400
Direct Costs
Seed                                     kg                    5                 2.2             11                5               2.2              11
FYM                                      kg                1,000                 0.5            500            1,000               0.5            500
Urea                                     kg                    -                 3.0              -               10               3.0             30
DAP                                      kg                                      8.6              -                                8.6               -
KCl                                      kg                    -                 1.7              -                -               1.7               -
Crop Chemicals                          kg/t                   -               210                -                -             210                 -
Tools                                   No.                    -                45                -                -              45                 -
Bullock                                 days                  20                70            1,400               20              70            1,400
Hired Labour                           days                    -                25                -                -              25                 -
Total Direct Costs                                                                              1,911                                             1,941
Net Return                                                                                       -311                                               459
Family Labour                          days                   62                                                  68
Return to Faily Labour                                                                             (5)                                                 7
(/s/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 6.   Per Hectare Crop Budget for Pulses (URD)
Without Project                                       With Project
Unit                                                                                               I
Ouantity        Price (Rs)   T   Value (Es)   |       uantity    i  Price (Es)        Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                    kg                  800                10.0           8,000            1,200               10.0          12,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                     kg                   20                11               220               20               11                220
FYM                                      kg                  500                 0.5             250              500                0.5              250             0
Urea                                     kg                     -                3.0                -                                3.0                -
DAP                                      kg                     -                8.6                -                -               8.6                -
KCl                                      kg                    -                 1.7               -                -                1.7                -
Crop Chemicals                          kg/l                   -               210                  -               -              210
Tools                                   No.                    -                45                 -                -               45                  -
Bullock                                 days                  20                70             1,400               20               70              1,400
Hired Labour                            days                   -                25                 -                 -              25
Total Direct Costs                                                                                1,870                                               1.870
Met Retun                                                                                        6,130                                               10,130
Family Labour                           days                  55                                                   60
Return to Fily Labour                                                                               111                                                 169
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 7.  Per Hectare Crop Budget for Orylawid Iheat
Uithout Project                                     With Project
Quantity       Price (Rs)  |  Value (Rs)          CuLntity        Price (Rs)       Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                  kg               1,000                5.0         5,000             1,800                5.0          9,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                   kg                  85                5.5           468               100                5.5            550
FYM                                    kg               2,500                0.5         1,200             2,500                0.5          1,200
Urea                                   kg                  10                3.0            30                20                3.0             60
DAP                                    kg                   -                8.6              -               30                8.6            258
KCi                                    kg                   -                1.7             -                                   1.7             -
Crop Chemicals                        kg/t                  -              210               -                 -              210
Tools                                  No.                  -               45               -                                 45                -
Bullock                               days                 20               70           1,400                20               70            1,400
Hired Labour                          days                  -               25               -                 -               25
Totat Direct Costs                                                                         3,098                                               3.465
Met Return                                                                                 1,902                                               5.532
Family Labour                         days                 67                                                 81
Return to Fmily Laour                                                                         28                                                  68
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Uatershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 8.  Per Hectare Crop Budget for Irrigated Wheat
Without Project                                  With Project
UnitII                                                                                    I
Quamtity  |  Price (Rs)  I  Value (Rs)         Quantity      Price (Rs)       Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                   kg             1,200                5.0         6,000          2,400               5.0         12,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                    kg                85                5.5           468            100               5.5            550
FYM                                     kg             2,500                0.5         1,250         2,500                0.5          1,250                O
Urea                                    kg                                  3.0              -            40               3.0            120
DAP                                     kg                10                8.6            86             60               8.6            516
KCt                                     kg                30                1.7            51             45               1.7             77
Crop Chemicals                         kg/L                -              210               -              -             210                -
Tools                                  No.                 -               45               -              -              45                -
Bullock                               days                20               70           1,400             20              70            1,400
Hired Labour                          days                 -               25               -              -              25                -
Total Direct Costs                                                                        3,255                                           3,913
Met Return                                                                                2,745                                           8,087
Famity Labour                         days                77                                             100
Return to F  ily Labour                                                                      36                                              81
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 9.   Per Hectare Crop Budget for Drytwad mutard
With Project
uantity   |  Price (Rs)            Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                     kg                  700                9.0         6,300
Direct Costs
Seed                                      kg                    5                9.9             50
FYN                                       kg                  500                0.5           250    |
Urea                                      kg                    -                3.0
DAP                                       kg                    -                8.6              -
KCI                                       kg                    -                1.7              -
Crop Chemicals                           kg/t                   -              210                -
Tools                                    No.                    -               45                -
Butlock                                 days                   10               70              700
Hired Labour                            days                    -               25                -
Totat Direct Costs                                                                              1.000     l
Net Return                                                                                      5,300
Family Labour                           days                   23
Return to Fa ity Laour                                                                            230
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Comptetion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 10. Per Nectare Crop Budget for Irrigated hustard
Unit I|            Uith Project
l __________________________      _                        |    Gmmuantity   T   Price   (Rs)  | VaLtue  (is)
Returns
Yield                                       kg                 1,000                 9.0          9.000
Direct Costs
Seed                                        kg                     5.0               9.9             50                                      O
FYN                                        kg                    500                 0.5            250
Urea                                        kg                    25                 3.0              75
DAP                                         kg                    30                 8.6            258
KCL                                         kg                      -                 1.7              -
Crop Chemicats                            kg/l                     0.2             210               42
Tools                                      No.                                      45                 -
Bullock                                   days                    10                70               700
Hired Labour                              days                      -               25
Total Direct Costs                                                                                   1 375
Met Return                                                                                           7,625
Family Labour                             days                    42
Return to Family Labour                                                                                182
(iRs/day)                          I



INDIA: Himalayan Uatershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Tabte 11. Per Hectare Crop Budget for Lentil
Without Project                                   W Uith Project
UnitIIII
Unit_______ _Q |   Ouantity   T  Price (Rs)    Value (Rs)       QkOantity      Price (Rs)  |  Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                  kg                 800                6.5         5,200           1,000               6.5          6,500
Direct Costs
Seed                                   kg                  35                7.1           249             40                7.1            284
FYM                                    kg                 500               0.5            250            500                0.5            250    | 
Urea                                   kg                   -                3.0             -               -               3.0              -              in
DAP                                    kg                   -                8.6             -               -               8.6              -
KCL                                    kg                   -                1.7             -               -               1.7              -
Crop Chemicals                        kg/l                  -             210                -               -             210                -
Tools                                 No.                   -              45                -               -              45                -
Butlock                               days                 10               70             700              10              70              700
Hired Labour                          days                  -              25                -               -              25                -
Total Direct Costs                                                                         1,199                                            1,234
Net Return                                                                                 4,001                                            5,266
Family Labour                         days                 29                                              29
Return to Fai ly Labour                                                                      138                                              182
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Coupletion Report
Appendix 2: Crop Budgets
Table 12. Per Nectare Crap Budget for Peas
Without Project                                      Uith Project
Quantity    |  Price (Rs)  |  Value (Rs)          Quantity   |  Price (Rs)   |   Value (Rs)
Returns
Yield                                  kg                1,000               10.0         10,000            1.800               10.0          18,000
Direct Costs
Seed                                   kg                   50               11.0            550               60               11.0             660
FYN                                    kg                  500                0.5            250              500                0.5             250            O
Urea                                   kg                     -               3.0               -               -                3.0               -
DAP                                    kg                     -               8.6               -               -                8.6               -
KCC                                    kg                     -               1.7               -               -                 1.7
Crop Chemicals                        kg/l                    -             210                 -               -              210
Tools                                  No.                    -              45                                 -               45                 -
Bullock                               days                   10              70              700               10               70               700
Hired Labour                          days                   -               25                                 -               25                 -
Total Direct Costs                                                                            1,500                                              1,610
Met Return                                                                                   8,500                                              16,390
Family Labour                         days                  23                                                 24
Return to Fmi ly Labour                                                                         370                                                683
(Rs/day)



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 3: Arwuat Plantings by the Project (Ha)
Project        Fuetuood         FFodder         o Far.   I   Plantation       Ptantation on        Plantation        Pasture           Total
Year        Plantation       Plantation     Forestry 1/   Near Farm 21   Degraded Land 2/    on Blan*s 2/
1               446              166            477                         -                          -               -             1,089
2                858             494          2,762                                                                                  4,114
3              3,805           1,694          5,260                                                                                 10,759
4              7,019           1,638          4,880                                                                                 13,537
5                221             234          4,512           1,599               3,312            2,569               -            12,447
6                                                             1,406               2,550             1,971            376             6,303
7                                                             1,114               1,645            1,642             675             5,076              O
8                                                             1,097               1,226            1,441           1,485             5,249
9                                                             2,163               1,923            2,246           1,113             6,332
Total           12,349           4,226          17,891          7,379              10,656            9,869           3,649            64,906
Mote:
Pre-Mid-Term Review the models adopted for plantations consisted of:
1,000 plants/ha  -          fodder plantations in Civil and Soyam areas;
1,600 plants/ha  -          fuelwood plantations in degraded forest areas; and
2,500 plants/ha              fuelwood production in Civil and Soyam areas devoid of plant growth.
At the Mid-Term Review these were reclassified as:
1,000 plants/ha  -          plantations near villages, later increased to 2,000 plants/ha: fuel and fodder species planted with improved varieties of fodder
grasses and legumes;
1,600 plants/ha  -          ptantation on degraded forest land (fodder and fuelwood species); and
2,500 pLants/ha  -          plantation on blank areas,
1/ Fodder trees, pasture grasses and tegumes ptanted on bunds, risers of terraces and privately-owned wasteland.
2/ For fuetwood.



INDIA: HimaLayan Watershed Managemnent Project
Project Coepletion Report
Appendix 4: AnniuaL outputs from Project PLantations (Metric Torn)
Project Yeaw                I     2       3       4   15          6        7      8   I 9   I10   I11   1 12   113  1 14                           15       16        17       16       19       2          o
Fueiaood fWia6orn (he)                   446    850   3.805   7,019   7,101   5.927   4.401   3,764    6.332                                                                                                             40.253
Faddw PAbo   (hw)                        166    494   1,694   1,638      234                                                                                                                                              4.226
Pas.xzs (he)                                                                     376    675   1.405                                                                                                                       2.536
Fuefucod Prodaiton (tons)
*From tueiwood plarntations                                                   1.338   2.574  11.415   21,057   29.467   30.025   67.500 111.453  126.689   85.720   641.999   63.453  108,327   19.715   15.397   761.329
*From fodder platations                                                                                          1.577    4.693   16,093  15.561      2.223       83       247      847      619       117              42.260
Tota:                                                                        1.336   2.574  11.415   21.057   31.044   34.718   83.593 177.014   131.112   85.803   65.246   64.300  109.146   19.832   V1.337   10
Fodder Producilio (torn r.M.)
*From fuelwood plantations                                                      290    848   3.321    7.883   12.689   16.742   19.603  22.050    26.168   26,168    26,168   26.168   26.166   26,168   26.166    266.768
Ffom lodder plantations                                                        342   1.360   4.850    8.126    8,606    0.606      8.608   8.606     8.608     6.608    6.608    8.608    8.608    8.606    6.606    109.366
TotWr                                                                          632   2.20    8.171   16.009   21.497   235.0   25.211  30.658    34.774   34.774   34.774   34.774   34.774   34.774   34.774   379.15
Orea" Prodlictiom (torn G.M.)
F,am tuel.o d & fodder plantations     979  3.142  11.940  25.791  50,427  59.910  66.952  72.974   83.105   83.105   83.105   83,105  83,105   83.105   83,105   83.105   83.105   83,105   63,105   83.105  1.289.375
From pastures                                                                3.384   9.459  22.824   22.824   22.824   22.824   22.824  22.824    22.824   22,824   22.824   22.824   22,824   22,624   22.824    309.555    CD
Totw:                                  919  3.142  '1.94   25,791  50.42?  63.294  76.411  95.726  105.929  105.929  105.929  105.929 105.9291092 105.9           29 105.929  105.929  105.929  105.929  1  05. I929  1.-AM       CD
Ykied Asawrnpm at Pro)ecl Completio
Fsuckood 2.500 treesflha at planting. 46.8% of stanid composed of 6 species Wsed below (7.8% each). 13.2% of stand Is Pinus roxburql4, anvd 40% Otuercus. Cedrus aNd Cupressus.
After 10 yeaws erqected YIelS from complete stands at lower altitudes are:
Osibergla sisso - 32.81,t$r
Afblzzla lebbek - 26.5t$sa 
Leuceena leucocepfrals - 24.0 tja          average yield
Meflia azadarach - 38.2 ltaw              ) 29.42 Itiha
Acacia mollisslma - 20.0 ljh
Robinla oseudoacacla - 35.0 tAsa
To get the estimated yield perhectarethis ftgxehas lobe multipliedby 0.468 (the proportion ofthestandthe trees occupy). Average yield from 46.8% of the standisl13.77 tdtiafterl10years.
ft Is assumed that Ouercus + Cedrtus + Cuaressus do not produce any tuetwood before Year 20.
Additioral fuetwood Is derived from:
TNhiOrlgs In Year S woul  produce 3 Mmt of fljtwood on average
Dodornaca hedges -0.5 tha (at10. 156 20 years)
Pinus coaburaN -2.05 tLim (.e. 13.2% of115.61 tilha of lopplngs ankd wood after 15 years).
After 10 and 20 years fodder plantations (including plantations on degraded land and newr farms) yield 9.0 tons fuelwood/ha. with an addItional 0.5 tjha from Dodonaea hedges at 10, 15 and 20 years.
Foddw    Fodder yields aler Atve years. in wet weight of leaves from Rhus. Grewla, Leucaena. Acacia moNlssima. AIbIzzia. are estimated at 2.06 t/tha/yr krom fodder plantations and 0.65 tiray from tuelwood plantatIons.
Grmw~   Crass yield on pasture lans Is estimated at 9 tAer of green maner: grass from fuelwood and fodder pk tlations Is estimated at an average productIon of 1.6 th/r



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 5: Project Implementation - Key Indicators
SAR Target    |    Target to      |  Achievement to  |      TR Targets         Achievrent
l _______________________________________      for  7  Years       March   1988        March   1988         1988-1993              1993
A. Fuetwood Plantations (ha)                       59,000              21,265              12,349                               12,349
S.  Fodder Plantations (ha)                        27,800               9,185               4,226                    -           4,226
C.  Farn Forestry (ha)                             81,000              29,938              17,891                    -          17,891
D.  Plantations (ha)
(i)  Near villages                                  -                                                       5,220            7,379 1/
(ii)   On degraded lands                                                                                    7,130           10,656 1/               co
(iii)  On blank areas                                                                                       6,980            9,869 If
E. Soil Conservation (No.)
(i)    Brushwood/stone checkdams                 1,650                 533              10,917              10,170           29,717
(ii)   Cratewire dams                            1,300                 490               2,184               1,739            7,941
(iii)  Drop structures                             700                 180                  96                 135              222
(iv)   Improved terraces                             6               2,216                 nil               6,000              962
1/   For fuelwood.



INDIA: Himalayan Uatershed Management Project
Project Coapletion Report
Appendix 6: Project Costs
Table 1.   Project Costs - Expressed in USS'000
nBB4  1WM 1                               i66  1087  13719  1E9   19B lW  i        fB9i 1M   l0D               Tott                 Eskb                % OSAR
Cowpornt
Foresty                                         134        285       949      2605       2664      3181       3023      2100       1805       315                17060               34913                 0.U
Soi Consanaton                                   13         12        76        81        375       243        447       505       654        101                 2506                5571                 0 45
Uvestock                                         22         83       262       1183       294       1347       607       604        880       185                 5267                9300                  0.57
A.glo*e                                           4         24        65        126       107       287        371       341        311        50                 1685                 1243                 1.3e
HcrrOOLtr                                         6         29        88         M        157        143       148       143        214        57                 1069                2685                 0.40
twIaW lon                                         10        35       173        311       428       264        327        147        83         1                 1771                2788                 064
AanWf steaon                                     101       447       794       1586      1538        723      2237      2301       1780       542                13050                12081                 1.08
lbsei ro                                          0          0         0         87       108         88        26        27          8         1                  348                  421                 tL3
Enrmgy Conswvwion                                 0          0         0          8         0        102       105        97        134         2                  449
Drant Wtw SupSlies                                 0         0         0          0         0          0         0       209        575         8                  871
Traing                                             0         0         0          0         0          0         0         10        12         2                   24
Tempyieserve                                       0         0         0          0         0          0         0         11        20         0                   30
Front Enct Fee                                   120                                                                                                               120                  120                 1.00
Toat                                            400        915      2407       6071      5670      7378       7293      6578       6284      1264                44266               89120                 0.64
Souoe: Projlect Heacxlter s, Delta Dur The local ctirrency ngies have been kanslated tno LSt eqvefWas usingmvaege exchnng rutes provided by WC Del ofaMce.
....................... I ..............  =t  ............ =- .......                         ......................................................................................



INDIA: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Coaptetion Report
Appendix 6: Project Costs
Table 2.  Project Costs - Expressed in 1992 Constant Rs'DOO
1983/84   1985/85   1985186   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992V93                   Total
Component
Fcresry                                        2589      5972      19274     52638      49404     61253      61946     43355     47804       9464               353699
Soil Conservation                               246       246       1542      1635       6950      4682       9162     10431      17311      3026               55232
Uvestock                                        423      1742       5330     23904       5455     25934      12438     12473      18004      5548              111251
Agricukure                                       83        502      1320      2542       1981      5522       7609      7045       8225      1485               36313
HorUcukure                                      ill       597       1796      1700       2914      2758       3041      2951      5665       1703               23236
Mincrk rgaton                                   190       734       3519      6279       7934      5090      6700       3041      2190         41               35717
AdministratIon                                 1963      9354      16134     32046      28534     33189      45836     47500     47376      16257              270188
Research                                          0         0          0      1763       1996      1701        569       566        222        27                6845
Energy Conservation                               0         0          0       169          0      1968      2154       1996      3553         73                9914
Drlrking Water Supplies                           0         0          0         0          0         0          0      5958      15220       230               21409
Tralning                                                                                                                 210        315        98                  624
Temporary Reserve                                                                                                        217        527                            744
Frort End Fee                                  2326                                                                                                              2326
Total                                          7930      19147     48915    122676    105168    142097    149455    135743    166414        37952              935497
Admin.Coststo Alocatedto ForestryComp.         1054      5025       8666     17213      15327     17827     24621      25514     25448       8732              149428
(based on total project costs)
NB: Coasl have been converted Inlo constart terms using Irnflator dorived trom price indices provided by W8, DolhI office.



INDIA:   Himalaynn Watershed Management Project
Project CoopLetion Report
Appendix 7: Economic Analysis
EO3NcMCANMLYSaS
(Exlpssed h tS2 Cua;  f# r )
1        2         3         4         5         a         I         S        9        10        tl        12        13         4        IS       1s        17        is        10       20
COSTS IJ
Pi n Estab      wrrs                     2071.2    4m,t   15419.2   42110.4   3ss.k2   49M4   495568           3414    32432      1320D         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0
MatWIrWx                                     0       2W       1344      42E0      6r       I2u7       9742     ENW       7423      732t      837       3723         O        tto      Eo        sO        t0o       E0        no       t
AtVnUonCoV    o             V3            802       4ts    nnz        137704   Iss6    20411.2   2rnt.4    t6e              0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0
OopPto6dicbfiForeg'on      %4                 0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Tot t                             2214      am       2tS    tto4u    a520          7341      7367      5M72     450       2120e0     s0        372t         o        ItO       00       gO         o 00     00o 00
BENEFITS
Fu*Wod of                                     0        0          0        0         0 o      2      101.0    7      13 I397.5   IGOO.4    21504.a   53044.0  7r 7    01551.7   sa5 s    4t01O   32r4.e   53706    12MS 5
Fodrw                       8                 0         0        0         0         0      2t4       rl       3407      325t      654    I(A71    117&4    1278.4    14801    13o1.1    ICtt.1   Iril.1 I.1.1    ll. 11        131.1
Yi 11.6                 281.7     0940    21484    4Z3)6    5s2n4    6350         70so0    E0039       Ma39e   a01        0ne te     8318              031sn9  sn          531       831       031           o
Grass
Tool                               I10      28.t7     3 0      2K44    4230       61310    a" 1                     '042at 22st0    292 7   3147s    OIs l   SMO    aims3  r4S  50480   4sr.tt   77sm8   22z 1s im9.0
NEr BEEFrr                               -28275   -5631  -23277  -059002  -33139.2  -73s100  -716300  -35151.3  -23o77.5    7E3E   25532   502723   Sr3    0174se   5304.5   505so0   40                          7772a0  22t705   19411.0
--do---(EVSI.A5drn. CoCs)                -183.6   -46:  -157709  -4422i.  -43OZZ4  -5s 8  -51110.8  -28M157  -23o7.5    7310   23i2   55372a3   O s    017456    W3204.5   50445o   4ez.                         777m2     22t7a5   1911.0
-        - - - - - - -   ----      - -  - ------------------            -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  - - --    - - - -    - - -   -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -- -
EtncUC RATE OF REtN(ERR)                     4.8t Is
&54 % (WLidnfg Adr04atW1n 81se)
Nam
%I Fl-  rcosXwW*d uPgSCFotO8
2E8asuTudatr-a usd I FaesasdlndlIWaehnmpw 26h rt 2b481 tyesoS frpiabnol t8rs1i5,w "eslhrmdarecosilI teLTmpr Zihuk 8bt  3 WS# hrespoclotofo  jp5Whgs
'312e120. shI0sb. dd earl. edwhm sad opm.nt lmnded by lpojt For h. e        k. ha. Wt. has. born  albcaktad bthe brsty rmprnhlon N. barotpropoUlnale db,msnn       .
'56biedrgS b. kwo.n .qbqddoills*of la uoe Fgh3ThAs1
Yi Esthadml 1u tra t  at bet oqJ&Ul.%
._ d.._,..__ .__...___.



113
INDIA.: Himalayan Watershed Management Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 8 Project Publications
Field Manuals, Literature and Documents prepared by the
Watershed Management Directorate, Dehradun, during the Project Period
Objectives and Activities of Watershed Management Project (Pamphlet)                  1985
Booklets on Forestry, Energy Conservation, Soil Conservation,                    April 1987
Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Minor Irrigation and Agriculture
Programmes in Watershed Management Project
Himalayan Watershed Management Project, Uttar Pradesh (Booklet)                   May 1989
People's Participation in the Project and Role of Micro Watershed              August 1990
Committees (Pamphlet)
Tropical & Temperate Grasses for Hill Areas (Pamphlet)                        October 1990
Watershed Management Project: The Basis for Development in Hills            December 1990
(Pamphlet)
Booklet on Techniques for Establishment of Nurseries                          February 1991
Propagation of Vetiver Grass in Bunds of Agriculture Land and Forest             April 1991
Land for Soil and Water Conservation (Pamphlets)
Pamphlets on Activities Related to Horticulture, Livestock Development                1991
and Agriculture in Panar Area
Booklet on Techniques of Tree Plantation & Pasture Development                   June 1991
Compilation of Proceedings of the Workshops Held at Dehradun (Book)              June 1991
Pamphlet on Uses of Vetiver Grass                                             October 1991
Annual Reports of Watershed Development Works in Nayar and Panar            November 1991
Yearbooks of Nayar Watershed and Panar Sub-Watershed                        November 1991






F
I N D I A
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
Noyar Watershed
,       2 1    IO~~ ,'URPkAYAGW
_ n o g a~    /  ~1   (   }   3  /    2   /   l  2  Nayar Watershed  Boundary
Sub-watershed  Boundaries
r     6_              4            3                                                             ---  Microwatershed  Boundaries / Numbers
'-0-  gR  I1 N>  \ 9/<0                                                                                        Selected  Villages
I           9                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State  Boundaries
0       ,-)V ,t8 8t  \r<  3  \   \   >lF  -r~~~~  n                         -*- International Boundaries
} ~\RANbIGAD                        I                    N     
\RA__3N'                                      7\a                            13"i A1
4 >   ) J          / PA AS CH    1\ \\N A Y AXR                         -        \
4                                                                       \4
3       4AtAR LEFT                       14                       ,0                            5        10       15       20        25f;NewDelil        /\/ 8Kter
6                        1 \    NII " _ -i        \ 11                          f jI                         I         I        I        I1       I$:
NAYAR//  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  16                                                                                              C    IN
D                                  \~~~~~~~__        (  7E_l 10 e/aleDS                                                                         -50          -/...\          (    2  
zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r _S n.h s  ., 3,. ''                                                                      Ne B tI, H   A  RV
lo                                             sI                          P AEA,  5*
7  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oWhwoK
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bswe o ,~t \  I 
A  AR   \LEFT            1 3                                                                      e.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  Del5.
PAY   PRA DESH



