Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  A317-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
May 10, 1983
General Agriculture Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents rmay not otherwise Ibe disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1   Rupees (Rs) 9.5
FISCAL YEAR
Indian Fiscal Year  =  April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS IJSED
ADO           -        Agricultura:L Development Officer
AEO           -        Agricultural Extension Officer
BDO           -        Block Development Officer
DDPO          -        District Development and Panchayal Officer
DOA           -        Department of Agriculture
GBPUAT        -        Govind Ballab Pant University of Agriculture
and Technology
GOI           -        Government of India
GOUP          -        Government of Uttar Pradesh
IBRD          -        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOA           -        Ministry of Agriculture
NARP          -        National Agricultural Research Project
NLRCDC        -        National Larnd Resources Conservation and
Development Commission
NWDPC         -        National Watershed Development Policy Committee
PC            -        Project Coordinator
SC            -        State Level Steering Committee
SDM           -        Sub Divisional Magistrate
SW            -        Subwatershed
SWMC          -        State Watershed Management Cell
T&V           -        Training and Visit
UP            -        Uttar Pradesh
VDO           -        Village Development Officer
VEW           -        Village Extension Worker
VLW           -        Village Level Worker
WDC           -        Watershed Development Council
Watershed implies a drainage area containing a few thousand or a few
hundred thousand hectares from which water drains towards a single chan-
nel. It is a social and economic unit for development and conservation of
water, soil, forests and related resouces.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND           ................................                  1
A. Introduction       ..................... ...................        1
B. Erosion and Flood Damage in India .....1.............. 
C. Project Objectives ....... ..............                           6
Project Rationale and Strategy for Development    ......           6
II. THE PROJECT AREA..                                                       8
General.                                                           8
Topography.                                                        8
Climate ..............................................             9
Geology and Soil.                                                  9
Socio Economic Aspects .10
Administration ..............          .      .     ........      10
Hill Development Organizations .11
Livestock .11
Pasture Land .12
Agriculture .........................................             13
Forestry .14
Land and Soil Conservation Programs .15
Agricultural Support Services .16
Minor Irrigation .17
III. THE PROJECT    ..18
A. General Description .18
B. Criteria for Preparation of Subwatershed Projects                  19
C. Detailed Features .22
Forest and Pasture Developulent .22
Soil Conservation Measures .23
Livestock Development .24
Agricultural Development .............................            25
Horticultural Development .28
Minor Irrigation .....................................            28
Research .29
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ..                                         30
A. Cost Estimates .30
B. Proposed Financing ...................................             32
C. Procurement .34
D. Disbursement and Audit ... ...........................             34
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..............................            36
Central Organization .................................            36
State Level Organization .39
Project Implementation ...                   , ..........................  40
Monitoring and Evaluation .,                                      42
This document has a restricted distribution and nmay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST
RECOVERY   ............................................  44
Yield  and  Production  ................................  44
Marketing  of  Produce  ................................  45
Farm  Incomes   ........................................  46
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ................. ......    47
A.  Benefits  ............................................  47
B.  Economic  Analysis  ...................................  48
C.  Risks  ............ ...................................  50
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE SOUGHT AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............    51
ANNEXES
1. Cost Tables
Table 1     - Subwatershed project Costs: Uttar Pradesh
Table 2     - GOI Watershed Development Cell
2. Project Area
Table  1    - Watersheds, Subwatersheds and Microwatersheds
Table  2    - Phasing of Subwatersheds and Microwatersheds
3.   Table  1    - Cropping Pattern for 1 ha Farm : UP
Table 2    - Farm Budget for 1 ha Farm (Irrigated) : UP
Table  2(a)  - Farm Budget for 1 ha Farm (Unirrigated) : UP
Table  3    - Yield per Hectare (Kgs) and Cost per MT
Table 4    - Per Hectare Labor Requirements
Table 5    - Horticultural Budget : I ha
Table  6    - Horticultural Budget : 0.4 ha
Table 7    - Price Build-up for Economic Analysis
Table 8    - Financial and Economic Price Assumptions
Table 9    - Yield Projections
Table 10    - Incremental Project Production
Table 11    - Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
Table 12(a)&(b) Graphs
4.   Table  1    - Physical Implementation Schedule
Table 2    - Estimated IDA Disbursements
5.   Project Cycle and Responsibilities
6.   Related Documents Available in Project File
Chart    - 24839  - Project Organization : GOI
24584 - Project Organization : State
Map      - IBRD 16811R
- IBRD 16813



INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    Immediately after the worst ever floods hit northern India in
August 1978, the Government of India (GOI) appointed a Working Group to
formulate an action plan for flood control in the Indo-Gangetic Basin.
The working group presented its action plan to GOI in December 1978.
Resulting from the plan, GOI in June 1979 decided to select the Upper
Ganga catchment for treatment, and from which a number of important rivers
in Uttar Pradesh (UP) originate. GOI also decided that a first phase
five-year project would focus on measures to rehabilitate a number of
subwatersheds/microwatersheds in each of the two major watersheds.
1.02    Responsibility for project preparation rested with GOI and UP
government and to assist in this, GOI appointed a part time expert team to
provide assistance to the states. A team of officials from the UP Forest
Department prepared an overall development plan for the Nayar Watershed
(266,000 ha) in the Upper Ganga catchment and a detailed plan for the
Machiad subwatershed (16,700 ha) which is a part of the Nayar Watershed.
1.03    These reports were ready by November 1981 and in November/December
1981 a Bank/GOI preappraisal mission 1/ visited UP and prepared detailed
subwatershed/microwatershed plans for the Machiad subwatershed. This
plan, which would be used as a model for subwatershed plans to be prepared
subsequently, has been revised in consultation with UP government and GOI
during follow-up missions from January-May 1982.
B. Erosion and Flood Damage in India
1.04    On average, floods annually affect an area of about 8.0 million ha
of the Gangetic plains, including some 3.5 million ha of cropped land.
The value alone of crops lost is over US$250 million a year. Damage is
1/ Messrs. L. Ljungman, R.V. Ramakrishna (Bank), R. Noronha, H.L. Teller,
K.G. Tejwani and S.N. Bakshi (Consultants). Mr. H. Stier
(Bank) completed the project analysis.



caused by the combined effect of excess run-off of rain failing both in
the plains and in the Himalayan range 1/ but no attempts have, so far,
been made to differentiate the damage caused by rain falling on the plain
or that falling in the Himalayan range. This project seeks only to deal
with measures designed to ameliorate the deterioration of the Hill areas
of the Himalayan ecosystem, leading to reductions in rapid and excessive
runoff of rainfall and in silt loads of rivers descending from the range.
1.05    Given below are statistics, from 1953 to 1981,  showing the value
and area affected by floods, the population involved, loss of crops and
houses, deaths of both cattle and humans, and damage to public utilities.
Total       Maximum in      Average/
Unit         1953-81        one year         year
Total area affected        M ha            235.6          19 (1978)       8.1
Population involved        M               795.0          70 (1978)      27.4
Damage to crops            M ha            104.0          10 (1978)       3.6
.US$ M        7,200.0       1,030 (1978)    248.3
Cattle lost                thousand      2,826.0         618 (1979)      97.4
Human lives lost           thousand         40.0          11 (1977)       1.4
Damage to public
utilities                US$ M         3,200.0         582 (1981)    110.3
Total damage to crops,
houses and public
utilities                US$ M        11,800.0       1,700 (1978)    406.9 a/
a/ These figures do not include the indirect damage caused by
disruption of communications, loss of subsequent production or
expenditure on relief and rehabilitation.
1/ For descriptive purposes within this report, the Himalayan range has
been classified into the Shiwalik Range--low foothills adjacent to the
Gangetic Plain and with altitudes of up to 1,000 m.a.s.1.; the
Hills--with altitudes ranging to 2,500 m.a.s.1. and in which agricul-
ture is generally practiced and the Himalayan range proper including
the alpine region.



-3--
1.06    It can be seen that during the past five years, damage appears to
have been at its greatest. Some of this increase can be attributed to
price escalations but, nevertheless, increasing ecological degradation
coupled with larger human and cattle populations make each new flood more
devastating than its predecessor. The fact remains, however, that the
severity of flooding is increasing although the trend of total annual
rainfall remains substantially the same. According to the Central Water
Commission, the area prone to floods in India is about 34 million ha of
which 24 million ha (70%) fall within the Indo-Gangetic basin states of
Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and the
Union Territory of Delhi. Rivers rising in the Himalayan range in the
states of Jammur and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and the
Kingdom of Nepal, all affect flooding in these states.
1.07    The average value of damage to crops, houses and public utilities
over the period 1974-1979 comes to about US$1,020 million annually whereas
the outlay on flood control works during the same period amounted to less
than US$90 million yearly. These control works have been confined mostly
to embankments and engineering structures alongside rivers in the plains;
however, some but limited preventive measures have been carried out in the
upper watersheds of selected rivers.
1.08    Many recommendations have been made by various committees since
1954 concerning measures that should be taken to control floods, but
neither the Central nor State Governments gave the matter the attention it
deserved until 1978, when GOI appointed a Working Group to formulate an
action plan for flood control in the Indo-Gangetic basin. It was
envisaged that the program should integrate engineering works downstream
with soil conservation, reforestation and other watershed treatment
measures upstream of the flood-prone rivers and their tributaries.
1.09    The action plan presented by the Working Group identified 18 major
catchments in the Ganga basin covering some 50 million ha as requiring
action. In the short term, the report proposed two separate but coor-
dinated five-year programs:
(a) construction of downstream flood control engineering works,
costing some US$1,230 million and protecting an estimated 5.5
million ha; and
(b) upstream watershed treatment covering some 2.8 million ha and
costing an estimated US$870 million. 1/
1/ The 20-year upstream program was estimated to cost some US$3,400
million and treat about 14 million ha.



-4-
With the inclusion of a flood forecasting/warning system and development
of a program of flood plan zoning, total program costs for the five years
were estimated at US$2,160 million. GOI earmarked over US$112 million
(50% Central and 50% State budget) for upper watershed treatment and some
US$1,000 million (70% Central, 30% State budget) for downstream engineer-
ing works in the draft Sixth Plan.
1.10    Deforestation caused by the need for domestic fuel and timber
supplies and livestock fodder, overgrazing of natural grasslands, indis-
criminate cultivation on steep slopes combined with poor agricultural
practices and badly designed roads all contribute to the general ecologi-
cal decline observed in many parts of the Himalayas. The outcome of these
activities is increasing soil erosion which threatens the productive
capacity of the habitable areas of the Himalayan range (the Hills). At
the same time, it (erosion) increases flash flooding and sedimentation
levels in rivers and which contribute to generalized flooding and early
reservoir siltation, a reduction in the life of downstream dams,
diminished quantities of irrigation water and finally a smaller command
area.
1.11    The technical solutions to improved land use in the Hills are
fairly well known and have been developed through research carried out at
the Forest Research Institute and the Central Soil Conservation and Train-
ing Institute (both located in Dehra Dun) and at leading agricultural
universities in each of the Himalayan States. The overall approach to
solving these problems is therefore! known, but, so far, little experience
has been gained in large scale implementation of the detaLiled technical
recommendations, particularly when involving local populations in these
development efforts.
1.12    As has been clearly demonstrated in the Sukhna catchment (in
Punjab State), reforestation, reduction in livestock numbers and other
rehabilitation measures, such as construction of check dams and careful
design of access roads, have already reduced the sediment loads in streams
by half and, when 100% vegetational cover is achieved, siltation will be
reduced even further.
1.13    Under the centrally sponsored scheme for conservation in catchment
areas under the River Valley Project, which was started during the Third
Plan Period, some 300 small watersheds have so far been treated in about
30 river valleys of India. The scheme-s main objective has been to
prevent premature siltation of multi-purpose dams located on these rivers
and to ensure sustained amounts of irrigation water for command areas.
Unfortunately results have been less than satisfactory largely because a
multi-disciplinary and integrated approach to the planning and implementa-
tion of watershed rehabilitation and development has not been taken. Line
departments of State Governments have operated more or less independently
of one another, frequently with different subsidy levels for the same



-5-
operation (e.g. horticultural development) and with limited involvement of
the local people. This has resulted in scattered patches of project works
in non-contiguous watersheds and which have not achieved the scheme's
overall objectives.
1.14    The most recent and relevant soil conservation and watershed
management experiences in the Himalayan range include the IDA supported
Kandi Watershed Project (Loan 1897-IN) in Punjab State, and a West German
Technical Assistance Project at Dhauladhar in Himachal Pradesh State. The
Kandi Project, although its main emphasis is on engineering solutions to
watershed development, has contributed substantially to knowledge of the
effects of controlled grazing and redluction of numbers of free grazing
cattle through cattle exchange programs and introduction of stall-feeding.
Initially, it was thought that it would be necessary for the rehabilita-
tion of upper catchments to construct numbers of small and medium sized
anti-erosion structures to reduce run-off and erosion from the Shiwalik
Hills. Furthermore, it was anticipated that it would be necessary to
canalise water leaving the Shiwalik Hiills to prevent damage to arable land
lying below the Hills. In practice, these assumptions have proved to be
wrong. Land closure, afforestation ,and removal of free-grazing cattle and
other domestic livestock have proved to be the single greatest factors in
restoration of ground cover and reduction in run-off of rainwater. Since
project inception, and with the introduction of the livestock exchange
program, the distribution of livestock is as follows:
1981 as % of
Type of Livestock           1977          1981            1977
Goats                       7,450         2,000            27%
Camels                         90     not recorded          -
Cattle                      5,990        3,500             58%
Buffaloes                   2,290        3,200            140%
Sheep                         180     not recorded          -
In addition, incomes of those farmers stall-feeding buffaloes has
increased substantially. The afforestation program is on target, with an
overall survival rate in the 1980/81 planting season of 90% (60% in pre-
vious season) brought about by improved establishment practices and better
control of livestock. The Dhauladhar Project, which has just completed
its final exploratory phase with substantial foreign technical assistance,
has developed techniques, farm systems and support services for watershed
management projects in areas similar to the proposed project area. In
addition to these specialized efforts, line departments in the Himalayan
States, have planted considerable areas of forest and orchards, as well as
covering substantial areas with various types of soil conservation works.
However, few efforts have been made so far to integrate these actions into
a coordinated program for watershed rehabilitation.



-6-
C. Project Objectives
1.15    The primary objective of the project would be to attempt to mini-
mize in selected areas the further deterioration of the Himalayan ecosys-
tem caused by depletion of forest cover, overgrazing, bad land use and
careless road construction, all of which has resulted in increasing ero-
sion in these areas.
1.16    Project concept is such that the components selected for develop-
ment would be acceptable to local populations and are so designed that
the great majority of persons living within areas selected for rehabilita-
tion would perceive themselves as direct beneficiaries of project actions.
Furthermore, some of the benefits would be immediate in effect (i.e.,
cattle exchange program), whilst others (forest plantations) would require
long gestation periods. Besides addressing the problems of erosion and in
view of the low standard of living generally prevailing throughout the
Himalayan region, efforts would be made to improve agricultural produc-
tivity and enhance incomes.
1.17      Since cost is a significant factor in determining the
replicability of project proposals, and learning from the experience
gained in the Kandi Watershed Project, greater emphasis would be given
to low cost agricultural/silvicultural solutions rather than to expensive
engineering works for conserving soil and reducing excess run-off from
rainfall.
Project Rationale and Strategy for Development
1.18    Degradation of the Himalayan ecosystem is essentially caused by
increasing pressures on the vegetative cover by ever increasing human and
livestock numbers. Besides poor agricultural practices, one of the main
obstacles to solution of the problem is the present livestock management
system. In the Hills, livestock are kept mainly for draught purposes and
manure. As a result of declining aimounts of fodder from crop residues,
natural pasture, and trees, cattle are kept in stalls only during the
night for collection of manure and allowed to wander freely by day. Fur-
thermore, natural forest areas are being systematically over-exploited as
sources of household fuel and timber.
1.19     To help overcome the fodder shortage, project strategy would be
to close areas to grazing in the upper (particularly on ridges) catchment
for reforestation, thereby increasing the production of fodder, both from
grass and from planted fodder tree species, for stall-feeding of cattle.
Such a practice, would also improve the opportunities for milk production
and help increase self-sufficiency of farmers. In addition, and as a
demonstration, a cattle exchange program would be introduced on a limited
scale as experience from the Kandi W;atershed Project in Punjab shows that



-7-
where two local cattle of indifferent genetic potential for milk produc-
tion are exchanged for one buffalo, a positive impact on reduction of
overall cattle numbers and closure of grazing has resulted. In recogni-
tion of the fact that all farmers would not accept the stall-feeding of
cattle simultaneously, it has been estimated by forestry and other offi-
cials that about one third to one half of the presently degraded forest
and pasture lands could be closed for treatment without causing undue
hardship to cattle keepers. Whilst the afforestation efforts would be
primarily designed to meet the needs for fodder, the future requirements
for fuelwood and construction timber would also be accommodated. In
addition, with a longer term perspective in view, planting of suitable
timber species would take place and which would provide a basis for estab-
lishment of commercial forestry. The returns to farmers from forestry
would eventually be considerably more rewarding than from subsistence
level agriculture; the returns from which are largely dictated by the
small amounts of arable land available for cultivation.
1.20    Strategy for soil conservationl would be directed towards reducing
soil loss and erosion by low cost methods principally by land closure and
by introducing better cultivation practices. Construction of permanent
and generally expensive soil conservation structures would be confined to
the protection of blocks of good arable farm land, and infrastructure such
as villages and towns or where ill conceived past road construction has
created substantial erosion.
1.21      Land closure, in the first instance, could bring hardship to
residents and in order to gain acceptance and support for these land use
changes, it would be necessary to include components that assist in rais-
ing food and income levels. Such components would be directed to increas-
ing crop yields (through improved extension, better seeds), improvements
to minor irrigation and upgrading of livestock breeding and health serv-
ices. In addition, horticultural development (especially fruit trees)
would play an important role in increasing incomes.
1.22    Previous experience elsewhere has shown that the approach to
development of special problem areas should be comprehensive rather than
piecemeal. Whatever the magnitude of the comprehensive approach may be,
it will only be possible to fully achieve its objectives by considering
all lands, their potential capabilities for development and reclamation,
their possible contribution to food, fuel and timber production, their
hydrology, irrigation, water supply, susceptibility to floods, droughts
and other natural hazards such as erosion and siltation.
1.23    Most of these factors are related to the nature of the drainage
basin and the extent to which improvement activities are coordinated
within its boundaries. Planning of physical improvements, infrastructure
or the mobilization of human resources will suffer serious restrictions
unless carried out within natural boundaries - a large watershed or its



-8-
independent tributaries (sub-watersheds) and the minor streams serving
those tributaries (micro-watersheds). It is also important to note that
area development plans can be executed gradually, micro-watershed by
micro-watershed, dependent on the availability of finance and trained
manpower.
1.24    Wherever comprehensive watershed development activities are
planned, it is essential to establish full knowledge of the existing
conditions and the potential for development in the given location. This
kind of development requires a multi-disciplinary approach and only by
close cooperation between specialists in the various disciplines can it be
successfully planned and implemented. The vertical administrative
organization prevailing in India makes this cooperation difficult. The
project, however, seeks solutions to these difficulties.
1.25    Under the project, the above planning principles would be incor-
porated into watershed development procedures. The disciplines involved
would include forestry, agriculture, soil conservation, animal husbandry,
minor irrigation and sociology. Thiese would be provided from existing
line departments of state governments, from agricultural universities and
other research institutions.
TI. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01    The proposed project would be located in the state of Uttar
Pradesh (UP). The State is bounded by the Vindhyan Hills and plateau to
the south, with the Gangetic Plain, lying between the Himalayan range and
the Vindhyan Hills, and covering the major portion of the State (see Maps
16811 and 16813). The project area covers 2 watersheds, including 9
subwatersheds and 83 microwatersheds involving an area of 312,000 ha.
Details are given in Annex 2, Table 1.
Topography
2.02    The Himalayan and Shiwalik region of UP extends over 58,000 km2.
Elevations vary from about 300 m.a.s.l. on the plains to above 7,000
m.a.s.l. on the higher peaks. About 60% of the land area lies in the
altitude range 2,200 to 2,600 m.a.s.l.
2.03    The state gives rise to many rivers which drain onto the
Indo-Gangetic Plain with the Tons, Yamuna, Bhagirathi, Mandakani, and
Pundar being the most important.



-9.-
Climate
2.04    There is wide variation of climate which is further accentuated by
microclimatic changes due to complicated relief and land form. The main
climatic zones are:
(a)  Alpine Zone.  Lies above 3,350 m.a.s.l.  Annual precipitation
is less than 250 mm and falls mostly during winter as snow.
(b)  Montane Temperate Zone.  Lies between 1,000 and 2,000 m.a.s.l.
Precipitation varies from 250 to 1,000 mm. about 30% of which
falls as snow during winter and the rest as rain during the
monsoon (June-September). The winters are long and rather
pronounced and summers are generally mild.
(c)  Sub-tropical zone - The low level valleys extending into the
interior lie in this zone. Annual precipitation varies con-
siderably with local topography, 15% being received as snow and
75% during the monsoon. The southern spurs of the main ranges
receive the heaviest precipitation (2,000 mm or more) whereas in
the inner sheltered valleys rainfall is about 1,000 mm. Summer
temperatures are high.
(d)  Moist tropical zone - The Sub-Himalayan part has annual rainfall
of 1,000 mm or more and all falling during the monsoon. Summer
temperatures are very high and, in parts, hot dessicating winds
prevail.
2.05    Generally, all slopes with northern aspects receive higher rain-
fall than southern facing slopes. Consequently, the former are densely
forested at higher elevation and receive heavy snowfalls during the winter
months, while the southern exposures have various amounts of deciduous
growth and grassy cover.
Geology and Soil.
2.06    The Himalayan-Siwalik tract originated in Eocene orogeny.  In the
inner ranges of the Himalayan massif, granites and quarzites predominate.
Gneiss, biotites, schists and phyllites are found in the outer Himalayas
and from which have derived red loams, brown forest soils, podsols and
meadow soils and their numerous variations. Except for valleys, the soil
depth is generally shallow and rocky outcrops are common. The soils are
generally poor but respond well to farm yard manure and artificial fer-
tilizers.



-10-
Socio-Economic Aspects
2.07    With a population of 111 M in 1981 and a per capilta annual income
of about Rs 994 or US$123 in 1979-80, UP is the most populous and one of
the poorest States in India. The statewide population density is
extremely high at 377/km2, with an average annual growth rate of 2.3%.
The population of UP hill districts was estimated in 1981 to be 4.1 mil-
lion with women outnumbering men in Chamoli, Tehri, and Garhwal Districts.
Population density in valleys may be as high as 250 persons/sq.km. There
are nearly 1,500 villages wherein 93% of the hill people live. Over 85%
of rural people are cultivators but holdings are small and fragmented and
returns from agriculture are diminishing. Most able bodied men migrate to
the plains in search of a living and women are left behind to carry out
all farming operations except ploughing. Women also care for the live-
stock, collect fuelwood and water, gather grass, cook meals and raise the
children.
2.08    People in the hills are well aware of the consequences of human
population growth and excessive livestock numbers. Furthermore, there is
considerable recognition of the need for closure of grazing lands lying
within village boundaries and there are a few examples of such closures
(both under supervision of the Forest Department and through private
arrangements).
Administration
2.09    Panchayat Administration.  The three tier Panchayati Raj System
operates in the State. At the lower level is the gram panchayat, a com-
mittee of 7-11 members elected by the gram sabha (village assembly), a
body corporate comprising the adult members of a group of villages. At
the next level is the panchayat samiti which covers a Development Block
and comprises 20 members elected by constituent gram panchayats. At the
district level there is a zilla parishad comprising one elected member
from each panchayat samiti, chairmen of constituent panchayat samitis,
local members of the Lok and Rajya Sabhas, local members of the State
Legislature and the Deputy Commissioner of the district.
2.10    The responsibilities of a gram panchayat cover hea:Lth, water,
agriculture, forestry and communications. In addition, government can
transfer to it the management and maintenance of a forest and government
waste lands within and near the boundaries of its jurisdiction; the
protection of any irrigation works and the extension and regulation of the
distribution of water from these works. The income of a gram panchayat
derives from grants, donations, income from common lands arid 20% of the
total amount of the land revenue collected in its jurisdiction. In addi-
tion, gram panchayats can raise funds through levying of fees and taxes.



-11*-
2.11    The functions of a panchayat samiti are somewhat wider and cover
agriculture (including forestry, animal husbandry, and fisheries), health
and rural sanitation, communications, social education and cooperation.
In addition, samitis are entrusted with the supervision and control of
constituent gram panchayats to whom they can also delegate any matter
which is under the direct administrative control of the samiti. Sources
of operating funds are the same as those of a gram panchayat.
2.12    The zilla parishad (district committee) functions mainly as an
examining, advisory and coordinating body. Its sources of funds are
similar to those of a gram panchayat, but it can also levy contributions
from constituent samitis with prior government approval.
2.13    Government assists and supervises panchayats through the provision
of staff, funds and audits. The staffing pattern is the same for every
Block and does not take into account variations in population or differen-
ces in topography or distances between villages. At the district level,
the Deputy Commissioner supervises all panchayats, and is also an appel-
late authority. He is assisted by the District Development and Panchayat
Officer (DDPO) who is the ex-officio secretary of the Zilla Parishad. At
a lower level is the Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) who usually supervises
the Block Development Officer (BDO) who is in charge of a Block, the
lowest administration unit and covering a number of villages. BDO is also
the Executive Officer and ex-officio secretary of the panchayat samiti
and is assisted by a number of lower level functionaries who act as sub-
ject matter specialists--some of these are from the same government
department as the BDO (the Rural Integrated Development Department);
others (Panchayats, Cooperatives, Agriculture, Horticulture, and Rural
Industries) are from a pool of officers provided at the Block level by
their respective line department.
Hill Development Organizations
2.14   The Hill Area Development Department is responsible for coordina-
tion of all development work carried out by different line departments
operating in Hill areas. As a consequence, all budgetary allocations and
staff appointments are coordinated and approved by the Secretary, Hill
Area Development.
Livestock
2.15    Every household maintains livestock mainly for draught purposes
and production of manure. Cattle, buffalo, goat, and sheep are common
throughout the project area. Cattle are small with an average body weight
of 220 kg for males and 180 kg for females. The small size of bullocks is
well suited to plowing of the narrow terraced fields. Milk yield of cows
is low (150-300 litres per lactation).  Buffaloes are mostly nondescript
and are kept essentially for milk production. Because of the difficult



-12-
terrain, the males are not used for agricultural purposes. Goats are kept
for home-consumption whilst sheep are maintained to produce wool for home
use.
2.16    Husbandry Practices.  Only those cattle in milk are fully
stall-fed and all others allowed to wander freely by day. Buffaloes, on
the other hand, are stall-fed as they cannot free graze because of the
hilly terrain. Village women now spend upto 8-10 hours daily collecting
fodder for stall-feeding of household animals. This entails making a
number of trips to areas often 2-5 km away from the homestead as fodder
supplies near at hand are exhausted.
2.17    Animal Health and Veterinary Facilities.  Rinderpest, Foot and
Mouth Disease, Anthrax, Black Quarter and Haemorrhagic septicaemia are all
endemic throughout project areas and a major cause of cattle losses.  The
Animal Husbandry Department keeps a check on contagious diseases and
mounts vaccination programs when outbreaks occur. To improve animal
health services, state governments presently have a program to set up a
veterinary hospital at the headquarters of each Development Block and 3-5
smaller dispensaries in interior areas. While all hospitals have been
established, there is a shortfall in the number of dispensaries.
Pasture land
2.18    In UP there are three broad categories of pasture lands; (a) areas
under the control of the government; (b) unclassed forest; and (c) private
forests (para 2.30).
2.19    Grassland.  The predominant perennial species in natural pastures
are Chrysopogan sps and which are desirable and nutritious as grazing
species. Under conditions of heavy grazing, however, and when accompanied
by annual burning, the natural grasslands deteriorate and the more
desirable species are replaced by Heteropogan contortus (a perennial
species of low nutritive and productive value). Growth of grass commences
with the onset of the monsoon (June) and under ideal conditions reaches
peak production and flowering in September. By the end of October,the
grass matures and, if left ungrazed, becomes the equivalent of standing
hay. Presently about 45% of all grassland is subjected to communal grazing
by numbers of animals in excess of its carrying capacity. Hence these
grasslands are under constant stress and result in low productivity (about
2-3 MT of dry matter per hectare). Furthermore, present grazing practices
permit little chance for species to flower and set seed. lUltimately these
pastures deteriorate further to the level of containing only pioneer
species (normally annuals) and at this stage, due to the slparsity of
cover, run-off increases and erosion sets in.



-13-
2.20    In a number of places within the project area in UP, unclassed
forest lands have been enclosed by villagers with stonewall fencing. A
village guard is engaged by the people to keep grazing animals out of the
area. In such areas regeneration is rapid and results in a good growth of
grass. The villagers have evolved a system for equitable distribution of
grass. Areas distant from the homestead and only marginally suitable to
agriculture are often closed by individuals for hay making.
2.21    Scattered throughout the grazing lands are fodder trees, usually
located around the edges of crop lands and along water courses. Loppings
from these trees (mainly leaves) help to supplement the poor quality of
grass and crop residues. The main fodder trees found are Grevia
opositifolia, Bauhinia sps., Albizzia sps. and Morus alba. Unlike the
grasses, the foliage of fodder trees maintains its nutrient value at a
fairly uniform level throughout the year.
2.22    Fodder Balance.  It has been estimated that the annual requirement
for maintenance and production is about 2.35 T of dry matter per animal
unit. Under present conditions, however, there is a deficit of about
15-25% of total requirement. This situation in large part accounts for
the overgrazed condition of communal grasslands and over exploitation of
fodder tree areas.
2.23    Farmers are generally reluctant to do away with unproductive and
aged animals due to religious beliefs concerning slaughter and continuing
dependence on these animals for production of manure. The State Govern-
ment has established a Gosadan (Cattle Sanctuary) in the Hills where
unproductive cattle collected from villagers are being housed and which is
more frequently being used by farmers for disposal of unproductive
animals.
Agriculture
2.24    Holding Size.  About 70% of holdings are less than one hectare in
extent, about 16% range from one to two hectares with the remaining 14%
more than two hectares in size. Farms normally comprise more than one
parcel of land, often separated by considerable distances.
2.25    Cropping Pattern.  The main cereal crops are rice grown in kharif
followed by wheat in rabi. Ragi (finger millet) grown where irrigation is
lacking is also an important kharif crop. In every period of two years
(four seasons) farmers usually take three crops, leaving land to lie
fallow in one crop season. Poor land with bad or degenerated terraces,
which is usually at a distance from the household, is cultivated once in 3
or 4 years, and then for only one season. The main reasons for this are
that the land is of inherently poor quality and farm women do not have the



-14-
time to visit these usually distant fields regularly as they are preoc-
cupied in cultivating better land near their homes, and in fetching fod-
der, fuel and drinking water for their day to day needs.
2.26    Crop Yields.  Crop yields are generally low.  Present average
yields are given below:
Crop                      Average Yield per Ha.
MT
Paddy                              1.0
Millet                             1.0
Wheat                              0.9
2.27    Manures and Fertilizers.  Most farmers use only organic manures,
but little attempt is made to prepare good, well rotted manure and all
material is generally left in uncovered heaps, stacked in the open.
2.28    Seed.  Little seed of improved varieties has been planted in the
project area. No efforts have been made to organize a widespread seed
multiplication program. Poor on-farrm storage arrangements and constant
use of the same seed lead to the quality of farmers' seed being low.
2.29    Horticultural Crops.  A range of subtropical and temperate fruits
and vegetables are cultivated in the project area. Citrus, guava and
mango are typical subtropical fruits and are grown in valleys. Temperate
fruits grown at higher altitudes are apple, pear, apricots and the stone
fruits (peaches, plums, etc.). Pear, fig and peach grow wild in compact
areas and in woodlands. Wild pear comprises some 10-20% of the fruit
trees grown in the area. There is considerable scope for improving yields
of these trees by "top working" (grafting) with improved varieties. This
work has been initiated in a small way by the Horticultural Department and
the produce will be marketed by the panchayats.  In addition, the Hor-
ticultural Department has programs to develop community and private
orchards. One demonstration orchard is in operation at Chamauli (Pauri
district) but, however, needs improvement.
Forestry
2.30    Forests, according to their legal status and ownership, are class-
ified into four important categories: reserved forests, protected forests,
unclassed forests and private forests. In reserved forests villagers are
only allowed to graze cattle and cut and carry grass on payment of a small
fee. In demarcated protected forests, the villagers have a right to graze
cattle, cut and carry grass, lop tree branches, gather dead wood and
fallen timber and cut wood for domestic purposes and for implements (at a
nominal fee). Unclassed forests are those remaining forest areas (other
than private forests) and wastelands which have been classified under the



-15-
Indian Forest Act and are under the control of the Revenue Department.
Private forests are areas which belong to individuals and considered unfit
for cultivation by them and which, in the course of time, have acquired
some vegetative growth. Generally speaking, private forests have
deteriorated and are now largely unproductive as a result of failure to
replant after exploitation. Protected forests and unclassed forests have
also deteriorated on account of continuous felling and uncontrolled graz-
ing and vegetation in such areas is now sparse and covered in bush growth.
2.31    Supply of Wood Material.  People living in the project area
require tree products for firewood, livestock fodder, farming implements
and house construction. These demands have led to degradation of much of
the nearby forests and are now largely met from areas remote from the
villages and from burning of agricultural waste. In some areas, and in
recognition of the need to conserve resources, villagers have voluntarily
agreed to protect nearby reserved forests. The result has been a number
of good demonstration plantations of pine and regenerated oak forests.
2.32    The essential problems facing any afforestation program are: (a)
non-agricultural land is subject to heavy grazing pressure and successful
afforestation efforts are dependent upon effective grazing control; (b)
non-agricultural land is normally steep with shallow soils and only por-
tions of this land are suitable for afforestation; (c) the daily needs of
fuelwood during the development period would have to be met outside those
areas being afforested so as to ensure successful establisment and growth;
(d) present techniques of establishing forest plantations have not given
satisfactory survival rates partly because efforts and funds have been
spread over large areas and with little attention to good silvicultural
practices; and (e) few efforts have been made to plant the best species
for fuelwood and fodder.
Land and Soil Conservation Programs
2.33    Soil conservation in the Hills has traditionally been carried out
by both the Forest Department and the Agriculture Department. Works by
the former are mainly concentrated in forest reserves and community owned
forests and those of the Agriculture Department generally limited to
privately owned agricultural land.
2.34    Programs implemented by the Forest Department largely comprise
afforestation with construction of physical structures to control gully
erosion and protect downstream structures. Afforestation, however, has
been carried out unsystematically and in a dispersed manner giving rise to
small patches of trees wherever land could be made available. Physical
structures are often constructed without due consideration to final objec-
tives and cost.



-16-
2.35    Soil conservation on agricultural land consists of bunding, land
levelling and terracing of private lands. Such works are normally carried
out by the Soil Conservation Department and are subsidized at levels
between 30 and 50% of cost.
2.36    The effectiveness of present activities are limited because of (a)
a tendency to direct remedial measures towards the effect rather than the
cause of erosion; (b) a lack of appreciation of factors which determine
rate of soil erosion, such as interaction between erosivity, erodibility,
topography and management; (c) inadequate appreciation of the role of
sound land husbandry in leading to good ground cover; and (d) introduction
of expensive remedial measures instead of low cost methods which would
have wider application.
Agricultural Support Services
2.37    Agriculture Research.  The G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and
Technology (GBPUAT), Pantnagar is responsible for agricultural research in
the Hill districts of UP. GBPUAT maintains a hill campus at Ranichauri
(Tehri Garhwal district) where research facilities are being developed. A
private research institution Vivekananda Anusandhanshala is located at
Almora and is supported by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.
2.38    Present work carried out at these research stations has little
relevance to problems of the area and there is little contact between
research workers, farmers and staff of the Agricultural Department.
GBPUAT is now eligible for assistance under the Bank supported National
Agricultural Research Project (NARP) and is being strengthened to meet the
future needs of the project areas.
2.39    Agricultural Extension.  Each district in the project area is
divided into a number of Development Blocks, and headed by a BDO. In each
Development Block, there are 15-18 Village Development Officers (VDO) l/
and three Agricultural Development Officers (ADO) 2/ one each acting as
Subject Matter Specialist for annual crops, crop protection and horticul-
ture. The VDO are multipurpose extension workers, working directly under
BDO. Their agricultural activity is largely confined to collecting
demands for seed and fertilizer and most farmers have had little or no
contact with them. The ADO are generally not available for extension work
in view of other responsibilities. As a result little or no agricultural
advice reaches farmers.
1/ Same as Village Extension Worker (VEW).
2/ Same as Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO).



-17-
2.40    Agricultual Credit.  Credit is provided by cooperatives and com-
mercial banks. Short term credit is made available for purchase of
agricultural inputs and medium term loans for bunding and purchase of
bullocks. Long term loans are available for horticultural development.
The overdue position of short term credit varies between 50-60%, largely
due to holding size and absence of a marketable surplus. Marginal
farmers, small farmers, farmers belonging to Scheduled Castes and Tribes
and others identified under the Integrated Rural Development Program are
entitled to subsidies, ranging from 33-50%, for different activities.
2.41    Agricultural Marketing.  Due to small holding size and low yields,
there is little marketable surplus of food crops and consequently market-
ing does not present a problem as any surplus is bought by traders located
throughout the project area.
2.42    Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production.  The main con-
straints to increasing agricultural production are: (a) the lack of an
organized extension system with the present extension staff performing
varied tasks which are target oriented and having relevance to a small
number of farmers only; (b) absence of a systematic program for seed
multiplication and distribution resu:Lting in farmers using their own seed
which is low yielding and of poor quality; and (c) research activities are
not planned to meet local needs.
Minor Irrigation
2.43    Present irrigation practices consist of construction of small
storage tanks designed to collect spring water from small perennial flows
and the distribution of this water to fields by gravity flow through small
open channels. Storage tanks are usually constructed with government
assistance whereas irrigation channels are built by farmers and are
unlined. The present irrigation efficiency is about 20% in the unlined
channels as there is considerable wastage of water.
2.44    On average, one tank irrigates about 0.8 to 1.0 ha.  Given the
volumes of water available and low efficiency, the present system provides
for protective irrigation only during lean periods of rainfall in kharif
and one to three irrigations for wheat in winter. The latter is dependent
on available water as there is a gradual reduction in perennial flows
after mid-February. No irrigation charges are levied as farmers are fully
responsible for maintaining the irrigation system.
2.45    There is considerable scope for increasing the area under irriga-
tion by (a) improving the existing system through lining of irrigation
channels; and (b) constructing new storage tanks and irrigation channels.



-18-
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project would focus on development of watersheds in the
outer Himalayas and in the Siwalik Range. It is in these areas where the
most serious denudation and soil erosion is taking place. The less
seriously affected middle and inner Himalayas, and which are more prone to
geological erosion, would not be included in this first phase project.
3.02      The proposed seven-year project would develop nine subwatersheds
covering 312,000 ha in the state of Uttar Pradesh. Detailed plans for the
development of one subwatershed (comprising four microwatersheds), has
been prepared by the State Government and reviewed by the IDA appraisal
mission and would be implemented in the first project year. Development
plans for the remaining eight subwatersheds would be prepared and imple-
mented throughout the course of project life. As the start-up of develop-
ment activities in subwatersheds would be phased over the first five
project years and in order to ensure that these activities would be sub-
stantially completed under the project, it would be necessary that the
project be of seven years duration. Details of phasing are shown in Annex
2, Table 2.
3.03      The development of the proposed subwatersheds would include:
(a)  establishment of some 59,000 ha of mixed species plantations
(for fuel and timber), 27,800 ha of fodder tree plantations on
government and panchayat-owned land and fuel and.fodder trees
on some 81,000 ha of privately owned wastelands which are not
regularly cultivated and on field boundaries;
(b) construction of soil conservation structures (by the Forest
Department) designed to protect existing infrastructure such as
roads and villages and including some 1,650 brushwood/stone
check dams, 1,300 crate wire dams and 700 simple drop struc-
tures. Terraces would be constructed (by the Agriculture
Department) on 6,000 ha of arable farming land;
(c) livestock development, including a cattle exchange program in
which 10,500 buffaloes would be exchanged for local cattle and
provision of better livestock services through improvements to
40 existing livestock dispensaries;
(d) improvement of agricultural extension services through provision
of staff, equipment, housing, and staff training;



-19-
(e)  horticultural development, including top working with improved
material of some 3,900 ha of existing, but wild, orchards and
establishment of some 1,500 ha of new fruit orchards;
(f)  irrigation development (by soil conservation staff), including
improvement, construction and lining of some 250 km of small
channels and construction of 650 small water tanks;
(g)  development of research and training activities connected with
watershed development;
(h)  project administration at State, Watershed and Subwatershed
level; and
(i)  establishment of a National Watershed Developmert Policy Commit-
tee at national level, assisted by a Watershed Development
Council for appraisal of subprojects and monitoring and evalua-
tion of project progress.
B. Criteria for Preparation of Subwatershed Projects
3.04    Prior to the preparation of detailed plans for development, a
baseline survey would be carried out in each microwatershed. This survey
would provide details of present land use, land ownership, population,
livestock numbers, present and potential for forestry, irrigation,
agricultural and horticultural production and extent and nature of soil
erosion. Once baseline data is available and acting through
Microwatershed Management Committees (para 5.15), staff of the State
Watershed Management Cell (para 5.10) would decide on the amounts and
phasing of land to be closed to grazing and the type of afforestation that
these areas would receive. In addition, details of requirements for soil
conservation, cattle exchange, minor irrigation and horticultural and
agricultural development would also be considered. Based on the detailed
appraisal of Machiad subwatershed development plan and from discussions
with state officials certain technical and financial criteria have been
established for the subsequent preparation and appraisal of subwatershed
projects. These are given below (paras 3.05-3.12). Additional project
details are given in paras 3.13-3.48.
3.05    Forest and Pasture Development
Technical Criteria
(a) Following a baseline survey, an assessment of supply and
demand of fuelwood and fodder would be made (3.6 T of dry
wood per family and 2.37 T of dry matter per animal per unit
year);



-20-
(b)  Establishment of temporary nurseries rather than permanent
ones to ensure a least-cost approach;
(c) Plantations established in degraded forests would contain
about 1,600 trees per ha and those planted in civil soyum
forests would contain about 2,500 trees per ha; and where
grass and tree leaf fodder is required this would be produced
under a regime of about 200 fodder trees per ha;
(d) Fodder and fuelwood development would include (i) phased
closure of only 50% of panchayat and government owned land to
allow natural grasses to regenerate and to permit planting of
fodder trees and leguminous pasture plants, (ii) over sowing
grazing lands with self generating annual legumes, and (iii)
planting fodder trees, pasture grasses and legumes on bunds,
raisers of terraced farm lands and privately owned waste
land.
Financial Criteria
Per hectare average costs would be as shown below:
Activity                                  Cost per Hectare (in Rs)
Fuelwood Plantation (government)                   2,600
Fuelwood Plantation (civil soyam)                  3,600
Fodder Plantation (civil soyam)                    1,500
Fodder Plantation (private)                          110
Soil Conservation
3.06    Engineering works for soil conservation in upper catchment areas
would be limited to protection of b:Locks of arable land, forest land and
existing infrastructure (e.g. roads, villages, etc.).
Technical Criteria
(a)  In areas where vegetative cover can be established, control
measures would consist of planting suitable plant species
together with small check-dams constructed from local
material; and
(b)  Engineering structures would be constructed only where (i)
gully formation is threatening productive agricultural land,
forest land, villages, small towns, and roads, and (ii)
larger structures would be constructed only after a detailed
survey.



-21-
Financial Criteria
The average unit cost for structures would be (i) Rs 100 for
brushwood and stone check-dams, (ii) Rs 3,000 per Crate Wire Dam,
and (iii) Rs 10,000 per stone/cement Drop Structure.
Cattle Exchange Program
3.07    One buffalo would be exchanged for two unproductive cattle.  The
principles involved would be:
(a) Exchange program would take place in compact geographic
areas;
(b) Buffaloes purchased would be test milked according to exist-
ing practices;
(c) Imposing restrictions on free grazing of remaining animals of
beneficiaries through stall-feeding; and
(d) Branding of exchanged and remaining animals of beneficiaries.
3.08    The average cost of a buffalo would be about Rs 3,500.
Minor Irrigation
3.09    Activities would be confined to improvement and construction of
small scale irrigation structures, i.e. channels and water storage tanks.
A pre-condition to construction/improvement would be the setting up of
water users groups to ensure suitable distribution procedures, and main-
tainance of works.
3.10    The average unit cost for irrigation works would be as follows:
Construction and Lining
of Channels                   Rs 50,000 per km
Storage Tank                    Rs  7,600 each
Overall Cost
3.11    The overall cost (excluding the costs of project staff and their
operation) of proposed treatments would be about Rs 1,340 per ha (US$141).
3.12    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the agreed
criteria would form the basis of the preparation, appraisal and sanction
of subwatershed projects (para 4.06).



-22-
C. Detailed Features
Forest and Pasture Development
3.13    As a general rule, about 50% of the panchayat and government owned
land now open for unrestricted grazing would be closed over a five-year
period. In deciding future treatment of closed areas, first priority
would be given to satisfying local needs for fodder and fuel. Adequate
amounts of the former are essential to ensure that cattle debarred from
existing grazing areas are adequately fed and therefore would not encroach
on recently closed and planted areas. When calculating the area required
for fodder production, it has been assumed that the annual consumption
requirement of an adult animal unit is 2.35 T of dry matter. In addition
the calculations assume that during the six dry months of the year, live-
stock would obtain 50% of their feed requirements from grass and 50% in
the form of leaf fodder.
3.14    Calculation of areas required for fuelwood would be based on the
estimated deficit between present wood production and consumption needs 10
years hence. Requirements would assume a need of 3.6 T of dry wood per
family per year. In many cases the land available for fuelwood planta-
tions would more than satisfy future demands. In such cases, the residual
land would be planted as commercial plantations. The area required to
satisfy the needs of timber would be based on an annual consumption of 0.1
m3 of sawn timber per family. In most of the microwatersheds concerned
this amount of timber is already available from standing plantations.
3.15    Multi-purpose plantations would not be established and fuelwood
and fodder plantations would contain different species and spacing between
trees depending on intended end use.  Those plantations established for
fuelwood alone would contain some 2,500 trees per ha. This would ensure
high volume production and at the same time early closure of the tree
canopy. Grass production in such plantations would, after some five
years, decrease due to competition f-rom the trees. Grass and tree-leaf
fodder would be produced under a regime of about 200 fodder trees per ha.
This spacing would ensure sufficient light for good grass production.
3.16    In steep areas with little vegetative cover, the land would be
protected from grazing a year or two before planting Lo ensure better
ground cover and thus higher survival rates of tree seedlings as a result
of decreased erosion.
3.17    Species to be used for fuelwood and fodder plantation are avail-
able and would be selected according to ecological conditions and in
consultation with the local population so as to meet their needs.
Suitable species are Robinia pseudoacacia, Eucalyptus spp, Alnus nepalen-
sis, Acacia spp, Pinus roxburghii, etc. Fodder species include Bauhinia
variagata, Robinia pseudoacacia, Grewia oppositifolia, and Leucaena
leucocephala. Further details are available in Project File.



-23-
3.18    To reduce transportation costs, temporary tree nurseries would be
established in each microwatershed and operated by the Forest Department
(FD). Planting material from these nurseries and technical advice would
be made available at no cost to farmers for planting on privately owned
waste land and on field boundaries. These would be maintained by owners.
Such private plantations would, to the extent possible, be planned so that
neighboring farmers cooperate in the protection of saplings either through
fencing or by a local arrangement to guard them. This practice is already
prevalent in the project area. Planting and maintenance of government
Forest Reserves and panchayat plantations would be done by FD who would
also provide for protection, either by construction of stone or post and
wire fencing.
Soil Conservation Measures
3.19    Upper Catchment Areas.  Work in these areas would iargely be
confined to afforestation and improvement of grazing through land closure.
Where gully formation is threatening productive agricultural land, vil-
lages, small towns, buildings and roads, construction of the appropriate
anti-erosion structures would be undertaken. In areas where an effective
vegetative cover can be established, minor erosion would be controlled by
the planting of suitable plant species together with construction of small
check-dams constructed from sticks and other local but readily available
material.
3.20      In areas requiring larger protective works detailed surveys
would be undertaken to determine the location, size and type of each
structure. Such structures would take the form of check dams--both using
vegetative material or loose stones; crate wire dams; stone and concrete
drop structures; and constructed drainage structures. The purpose, design
criteria, average unit cost, and an estimate of numbers required are
contained in the Project File.
3.21    Agricultural Land.  Data on water run-off and soil loss as a
result of outward sloping bench terraces are not available. No attempts
have been made to quantify the extent and effects of such erosion and its
control under heavy intensity rainfall conditions prevailing in the
Himalayas. In the absence of conclusive data, the project would include a
research component to assess (a) run-off and soil loss from cultivated
terraces; (b) the cost of controlling erosion on terraces by various
measures; (c) a study to determine if farmers using their own labor and
equipment and adopting new tillage practices could bring about the reshap-
ing of their land over a two to three year period so that the terraces
become inward sloping; and (d) studies to assess expected increases in
farm production as a result of the land shaping proposed in (c) above.



-24-
3.22    Assuming that the research work proposed above would be completed
by the end of the third project year, a lump sum provision of Rs 30.00 M
(US$3.16 M) for land shaping of about 6,000 ha of terraced land has been
included in project costs. This component would be implemented by the
Agricultural Department and assurances were obtained at negotiations that
land reshaping would not be undertaken until the outcome of the proposed
research had been discussed with the Bank and approval of the Bank given
to implement the program.
Livestock Development.
3.23    Under the project, progressive closure of grazing areas would
occur. This would have the two fold effect of forcing livestock owners to
pay greater attention to stall-feeding of animals and, due to a general-
ized shortage of fodder in the early years following closure, lead to
disposal of old and unproductive animals. To encourage stall-feeding,
help the overall reduction in stock numbers and demonstrate the economic
benefits of keeping productive animials, the project would provide for a
limited cattle exchange program--two unproductive cattle for one improved
buffalo and would involve a total of 10,500 buffaloes. The buffalo would
be test milked before purchase to ensure satisfactory performance. During
the first two years the owner would be provided with concentrate feed for
the buffalo. The cattle exchanged would be sent to an existing cattle
sanctuary located in UP Hills. During negotiation assurances were
obtained that only buffaloes would be used for cattle exchange and that as
a condition of disbursement against the component the Government of UP
would prepare detailed rules governing the cattle exchange program and
which would include selection of compact areas for exchange, arrangements
for stall-feeding and control of grazing, and identification of exchanged
animals.
3.24    Other livestock development activities would include improvements
to some 40 existing dispensaries, and provision for natural breeding of
buffaloes (Murrah Buffalo Bulls).
3.25    Extension support would be provided by the Veterinary Department
to assist farmers in the feeding and management of productive animals,
calf rearing and disease control. In addition, extension staff would help
introduce rotational and deferred grazing systems on newly closed grazing
areas.
3.26    Training.  The project would provide funds for training of farmers
and staff. Farmer training would cover the benefits of reforestation,
soil conservation, grass production and improved animal husbandry methods.
Staff training would include in-service training of Forest Rangers,
Foresters, and Forest Guards, and provision of special courses for Forest
Officers, Rangers, and soil conservation staff on soil and water conserva-
tion practices to be adopted in project areas. These special courses



-25-
would be held at the Central Soil Conservation Institute, Dehra Dun and
in-service training would be arranged in the project area by the Forest
and Veterinary Departments.
Agricultural Development
3.27    The project area is presently not covered by an effective agricul-
tural extension service capable of assisting farmers to adopt better
farming practices. Present income levels of farmers are such that they
are not in a position to invest in purchased agricultural inputs. Fur-
thermore, most farmers do not have access to improved seed. To help
remedy this position, the project would:
(a) provide for an effective agricultural extension service in
watersheds with a single line of command between the Village
Extension Worker (VEW) 1/ and the District Agricultural Officer;
(b) Engage women "motivators" to reenforce the activities of VEW;
(c) reorganize the present activities of VEW in such a manner that
they are able to devote more time to agricultural extension
work;
(d)  incorporate regular in-service training and fixed schedules for
visits by VEW to farmers  fields as an integral part of exten-
sion activities;
(e) develop a seed improvement program to overcome the problems
presently constraining the wider use of improved varieties; and
(f) provide additional staff, equipment, operating expenses, train-
ing facilities and rural housing for staff.
The main emphasis of extension activities would be directed towards
increasing productivity of the better arable lands and encouraging farmers
to put marginal, poor and steep land to other productive uses such as
horticulture or fodder production (tree fodder).
3.28    Extension Methodology.  As most agricultural operations, except
plowing of land, are carried out by women, the project would direct exten-
sion activity mainly towards village women. In each village a woman, who
is engaged full time in farming, would be selected as Motivator and would
work with the VEW as a part-time extension agent. Each Motivator would be
identified and selected for her potential influence in the village and
willingness to collaborate in following the agricultural practices recom-
mended.
1/ VDO is the term used UP.



-26-
3.29    Motivators would be encouraged to adopt improved practices recom-
mended to them, introduce some of them on at least part of their land and
let other farmers visit their fields to observe the practices and results.
Motivators would also explain to farmers the operations involved in carry-
ing out the recommended practice and play an active role in promoting them
further. Each Motivator would be paid an amount of Rs 50 per month.
3.30    Each VEW would cover about 270 farm families (about 10 villages)
in his area of operation. He would visit each village on a fixed day,
once every month in a four week cycle. During the visit he would spend
the whole day in the village and with the Motivator, visit farmers-
fields, and explain the specific recommendations and practices that would
be followed during the next four week pe'riod. In addition, VEW would have
informal discussions with groups of farmers. One day in each month would
be devoted to in-service training where the VEW would learn the recom-
mended practices to be given to farmers during the next four week period
and would bring farmers' problems to the attention of trainers. Thus, the
VEW would be occupied with extension activities for about 12 days. During
the remaining days of the month, VE'W would undertake other development
activities, but in the course of carrying out these and should the oppor-
tunity arise would, if the VEW happens to visit any of his villages, make
a point of contacting the Motivator for a short review of progress and
problems.
3.31    VEW would concentrate on the most important crops, focusing on
practices which bring the best and quickest economic resuLts.  Initially
concentration would be on improving cultural practices and which would
include better land and seed bed preparation, making of better farm yard
manure, use of good seed and seed treatment. In adopting such recommenda-
tions, farmers face few risks, litt:Le financial outlay buit would be
required to provide more of their own labor. Since most farmers have
little cash, this fits their financ:ial status well.
3.32    VEW would be guided and supervised by the three Agricultural
Extension Officers (AEO) 1/ at the Block level--one each f-or Agriculture,
Plant Protection, and Horticulture. AEOs would arrange their tour
programs in such a manner that they are able to spend as mnuch time as
possible with VEW during their scheduled field visits. For regular train-
ing of extension staff (both VEW and AEO) and for providing overall tech-
nical guidance, two Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), one each in Agronomy
and Plant Protection, would be provided at Project Headquarters. SMS
would spend about one-third of their time in field visits providing tech-
nical support and guidance to extension workers, and the remainder in
building up their own stock of knowledge through a regular dialogue with
1/ ADO is the term used in UP.



-27-
research workers, and in carrying out simple field trials on farmers'
fields
3.33    The District Agricultural Officer would have overall respon-
sibility for coordinating extension operations.
3.34    Civil Works.  The project would provide funds for construction of
small input godowns.
3.35     Equipment.  The project would provide simple audio-visual equip-
ment to support training and field extension operations. Emphasis would be
on low cost aids such as flipcharts which extension staff could design
themselves and modify to fit local conditions.
3.36    Linkages Between Extension and Research.  As neither research nor
extension can function without close cooperation it would be necessary to
formalize the responsibilities of both organizations. A clear definition
of these responsibilities is emerging as part of the National Agricultural
Research Project wherein GBPUAT would be made fully responsible for
development of suitable new technology while the Department of Agriculture
would assume responsibility for transfer of this technology to farmers,
including widespread testing of research recommendations on farmers'
fields. The commodity research programs of GBPUAT and of ICAR would
continue to identify and select improved varieties of important crops and
to identify economically appropriate practices. Selected crop varieties
and production practices would then be tested at the Zonal Research Sta-
tion, Ranichauri. Extension staff would work with research workers to
decide on the field trial program and would have responsibility for carry-
ing out this program on farmers' fields. The project would provide for
the cost of inputs needed for field trials.
3.37    Crop Seed Improvement.  Substantial improvements in production are
possible through wider use of improved crop varieties. Present seed
production and distribution programs are inadequate and farmers plant old
seed which has low viability, is full of impurities and of poor genetic
potential. Under the project, emphasis would be given to replacing exist-
ing seed.  A seed exchange and multiplication program would be introduced
so that at the end of the project period most of the cultivated area would
be planted to improved varieties.
3.38    Each season small packets of certified seed of paddy and wheat,
sufficient to plant two nali (1 ha = 50 nali in JJP) of land, would be
distributed to selected farmers in each village in exchange for an equiv-
alent amount of their own seed. Suitable varieties of paddy are available
with the Department of Agriculture (I)OA) and would be a most suitable
replacement for local varieties presently cultivated over a large area.
Similarly late sown wheat varieties are available. Farmers would then
bulk these improved varieties to supply their own needs and those of
neighbouring cultivators.



-28-
Horticultural Development
3.39    Horticultural development programs would include:  (a) improvement
of wild fruit groves; (b) development of private and community orchards;
and (c) increase in the number of nurseries to supply fruit tree seedlings
to the project area.
3.40    Development of Wild Fruit Groves.  There are substantial numbers
of fruit trees (mainly pear) growing wild on Civil Soyam land and in
Reserved Forest areas. In many places such groves are to be found growing
in compact blocks. In such areas, which are often located near villages,
"top working" would be done through grafting with improved varieties by
staff of the Horticultural Department. Wherever necessary gap filling
would be carried out to ensure economic stands. Wild fruit species need
little care and maintenance as they are well adapted to the ecological
conditions, very hardy and drought resistant. About 3,900 ha of compact
groves would be treated throughout the project area by the Horticultural
Department. According to the prevailing practice, the panchayats would
collect and market the produce from such orchards.
3.41    Development of Private Orchards.  Privately owned land near vil-
lages and which is normally marginally or not suitable for growing cereal
crops would be converted into fruit orchards. Such a program is already
in operation in the project area and is popular with farmers. About 1,500
ha of marginal land has already been identified for development under the
project.
3.42    Development of Nurseries.  The project would provide for develop-
ment of some 8 additional nurseries throughout the project area to supply
free material for top working of wild groves and to provide farmers with
fruit tree seedlings.
Minor Irrigation
3.43    The area presently under irrigation would be increased by more
effectively utilizing existing perennial flows of water from small
streams. This would be accomplished by: (a) lining of existing irrigation
channels; and (b) construction of irrigation channels and water storage
tanks. According to the present po:Licy in UP, minor irrigation works
would be executed by soil conservatiLon staff.
3.44    Lining of Existing Channels.  Some 100 small irrigation channels
(measuring about 250 km overall) would be constructed or lined over the
project period. Additional structures at the intake and for safe disposal
of excess water would also be provicled.



-29-
3.45    Water Storage Tanks.  Where possible, small storage tanks (650)
would be constructed to collect overnight water from existing perennial
flows to further extend the area irrigated or provide additional water to
existing irrigated lands. The structures proposed would include the
tanks, water distribution system and a small investment in land develop-
ment, usually land levelling.
3.46    Water Management and Maintenance.  Water management for equitable
and timely distribution would be the responsibility of water user groups
consisting of the beneficiaries. These groups would also be made respon-
sible for all maintenance of works. Soil Conservation staff would devote
part of their time to forming these groups and training farmers in simple
maintenance techniques and effective water utilization.
Research
3.47    A key issue in a pilot scale lproject of this type is that of
clearly identifying which particular components of a watershed improvement
program (e.g. soil conservation, restoration of vegetative cover in the
hills, construction of check dams, careful road alignment and appropriate
culvert design or reduction in livestock numbers and closure of certain
areas to cultivation or grazing) have the most effective impact at the
lowest possible costs. Secondly, the extent to which improved upland
catchment area land use could make a significant impact on downstream
flooding and sedimentation when compared with the alternative of dam
construction and improved irrigation and drainage in the foothills and
plains. This issue is central to all watershed rehabilitation work in the
Himalayas and the project would include research and ongoing evaluation
components for technical, sociological and economic studies which would
examine the evidence already collected on this issue, not only from the
project area, but also from other experimental catchment improvement
programs in the Himalayas and overseas.
3.48    Project research would support the following activities related to
forestry including soil conservation and fodder development, and include:
(a) runoff and soil loss studies from different types of ter-
races used for cultivation, cost of rehabilitation and
benefits as a result of such improvements;
(b) monitoring of runoff and sediment yields in paired miniwater-
sheds; measurements would be made through automatic recording
of rainfall and streamflow;
(c) measurements of damage, land depreciation and volume of
sediment produced by gu:Lly erosion under varying conditions;
(d) species and provenance trials of both trees and grasses;



-30-
(e)  fertilizer and spacing, trials for various tree species;
(f) growth rate studies and yield data of different species of
trees and grasses;
(g) biological studies to determine changes in the overall
Himalayan ecosystem; and
(h) remote sensing application to determine changes in land use.
Funds would be provided for incremental research staff, a small
laboratory, staff quarters, equipment, transport and operational costs to
carry out the program. Research trials would cover no more than 30 ha
scattered in various project microwatersheds. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that: (a) research work would be carried out in
cooperation with institutions acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the outline
and work plan for project research actions would be ready by September 30,
1983.
IV. COST ESTInATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    The costs of the seven-year project would comprise (a) full cost
of development of subwatershed projects initiated in the first three
project years, (b) partial costs of subwatersheds taken up for development
in the fourth and fifth project yea,rs, and (c) cost of the Watershed
Development Council (para 5.03).
4.02    Total Project costs are estimated at Rs 656.39 M (US$69.12 M) of
which US$0.8 M would involve foreign exchange expenditures. Duties and
taxes included in total cost are estimated at US$3.12 M.  Details of
costs, summarized below, are given in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2.



-31--
Summary of Project Cost by Components
% of
Component              Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Base Cost
-- Rs M                           USS M --
Uttar Pradesh
Forestry                   220.80    2.00  222.80    23.20    0.20   23.40           52
Soil Conservation           35.50    0.50   36.00       3.70    0.10    3.80          8
Livestock                   58.60      -     58.60      6.20      -       6.20        14
Agriculture                  7.40      -      7.40      0.80      -      0.80          2
Horticulture                16.70      -     16.70      1.80      -       1.80         4
Minor Irrigation            18.20      -     18.20      1.90      -       1.90        4
Administration              63.00    1.00   64.00       6.60    0.10    6.70          15
Research                     1.60      -      1.60      0.20      -      0.20         1
Total Base Cost            421.80    3.50  425.30    44.40    0.40   44.80          100
Physical Contingencies         7.70    0.80    8.50       0.80    0.10    0.90
Price Contingencies          200.00    1.91  201.91    21.06    0.18   21.24
Sub Total                    629.50    6.21  635.71    66.26    0.68   66.94
Central Administration        11.93      -     11.93      1.25      -       1.25
Physical Contingencies       1.60      -      1.60      0.17      -      0.17
Price Contingencies          6.06      -      6.06      0.64      -      0.64
Sub Total                     19.59      -     19.59      2.06      -       2.06
Total Base Cost            433.73    3.50  437.23    45.65    0.40   46.05
Physical Contingencies       9.30    0.80   10.10       0.97    0.10    1.07
Price Contingencies        206.06    1.91  207.97    21.70    0.18   21.88
FRONT END FEE                 -       1.09    1.09       -       0.12    0.12
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        649.09    7.30  656.39    68.32    0.80   69.12



-32-
Summary of Project Cost by Expenditure
% of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Base Cost
------- Rs M --------    ------- US$ M -------
Staff Costs                   42.24      -     42.24      4.45    -         4.45        10
Operating Costs               35.92    1.00   36.92       3.79   0.10       3.89         8
Vehicles and Equipment         6.10      -       6.10     0.64    -         0.64         1
Civil Works                   18.20      -     18.20      1.92    -         1.92         4
Forest Plantation            216.35    2.00  218.35    22.79   0.20    22.99            50
Horticulture Plantation        4.23      -      4.23      0.45    -         0.45         1
Cattle Exchange Program       52.12      -     52.12      5.49    -         5.49        12
Soil Conservation             35.57    0.50   36.07       3.70   0.10       3.80         8
Minor Irrigation Works        17.88      -      17.88     1.88    -         1.88         4
Research                       1.60      -       1.60     0.17    -         0.17         1
Monitoring and Evaluation    3.52        -       3.52     0.37    -         0.37         1
Total Base Cost            433.73    3.50  437.23    45.65   0.40    46.05           100
Physical Contingencies         9.30    0.80   10.10       0.97   0.1.0      1.07
Price Contingencies          206.06    1.91  207.97    21.70   0.1.8    21.88
FRONT END FEE                 -       1.09    1.09       -      0.1.2     0.12
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        649.09    7.30  656.39    68.32   0.80    69.12
4.03    Cost estimates are based on actual costs for similar work carried
out in the last few years in the prcject area. Physical contingencies
have been added at 10% of costs on soil conservation, mincr irrigation and
project administration. Price contingencies (local and foreign) have been
calculated in accordance with Bank estimates of future price movements
(1983: 8.5%; 1984.: 8%; 1985: 7.5%; 1986: 7% and 1987-89: 6%).
B. Proposed Financing
4.04    Finance to cover total project cost of US$66.00 M, including
contingencies, but net of duties and taxes, would be provided as follows:
IBRD    GOUP/GOI    GOI       TOTAL
------------- US$ M -------------
46.20    18.80       1.00    66.00
The proposed IBRD loan of US$46.2 M would finance about 70% of total
project costs, including all foreign exchange costs (US$0.8 M). The Bank



-33-
loan would be made to GOI at standard IBRD interest terms over 20 years
including a five-year grace period and with a front end fee of 0.25%.
Bank funds would be channeled by GOI through the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) to the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) on GOI standard terms and
arrangements for financing of state development projects. The balance of
financing would come from GOI/GOUP. GOUP has confirmed that the project
has been included in its already approved State Development Plan with
sufficient funds to cover the cost of the Project. In order to ensure an
early start to project actions and speedy and effective implementation
thereafter, retroactive financing not exceeding US$300,000 would be
provided from April 1, 1983 to the date of credit signing for estab-
lishment of forest nurseries and advance work on land preparation and
plantation protection necessary for the 1983 planting season. Retroactive
financing would also cover additional staff who need to be in position by
the start of the planting season and for purchase of a limited amount of
equipment and vehicles.
4.05    Since the National Watershed Development Policy Committee (NWDPC,
para 5.04) would be required to approve subwatershed projects over the
first five project years, the completion of those approved in the fourth
and fifth project years would extend beyond the seven-year project period.
Consequently, an understanding was reached at negotiations that GOUP would
complete the development of all nine subwatershed projects approved and
started under the project.
Preparation and Approval of Subwatershed Plans
4.06    Prior to project appraisal, one detailed subwatershed plar, was
prepared. This was found satisfactory. Subwatersheds to be taken up
progressively over the project period would be identified by GOUP and
project preparation initiated by the State Watershed Management Cell (para
5.10) following the general criteria set out in paras 3.05-3.12. These
plans would be reviewed and approved by the State Level Steering Committee
(para 5.09) and would then be submitted to NWDPC. The Watershed Develop-
ment Council (IWDC-para 5.04), acting on behalf of NWDPC, would appraise
these sub-projects and on the basis of which NWDPC would release funds to
the State Government for implementation of development proposals. Sub-
watershed projects have been phased (para 3.02) and advance action is
necessary to ensure appraisal well ahead of budget preparation in order to
ensure satisfactory implementation. In the event that subwatershed
projects do not meet both technical and financial criteria, these would be
returned by NWDPC to the States for revision. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all subwatershed projects appraised by WDC prior
to the Mid-term Review (para 5.30) would be sent to the Bank for comment
and approval before sanction by NWDPC and release of funds. Thereafter
copies of appraisal reports would be retained by NWDPC for review by the
Bank in the course of project supervision.



-34-
C. Procurement
4.07    Direct plantation works (US$23.44 M) including nursery expendi-
ture, pre-planting preparation, tree establishment and subsequent main-
tenance and top working of orchards would be scattered over a wide area
and would be carried out over different periods of time. Most of these
activities, including land preparation and planting and maintenance of
village woodlots would be done by the implementing departments (as per
existing practice) with participation from village panchayats. Similarly
soil conservation (US$3.80 M) and minor irrigation (US$1.88 M) works would
also be scattered and would be carried out by force account of implement-
ing agencies and with local participation. Therefore, contracts following
competitive bidding would not be practical. Purchase of buffaloes (US$5.49
M) for the cattle exchange program would be carried out by State Animal
Husbandry Department following State Government procedures which are
satisfactory. Contracts for civil works (US$1.92 M) would be small and
widely dispersed in time and location and, therefore, would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) and would be let
following local bidding procedures (LCB), advertised locally, or by force
account and in accordance with established GOUP procedures that are satis-
factory to the Bank.  Vehicles and equipment (US$0.64 M) would be pur-
chased over the first few project years and as adequate maintenance and
availability of spare parts would be of paramount importarnce, this would
necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles and equipment already in use
by government departments. Thus, procurement would be by LCB under exist-
ing government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.08    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement
procedures set out above would be followed.
D. Disbursements and Audit
4.09    Disbursements under the loan for approved subwatershed projects
would be made as follows:
(a) Civil works - 70% of expenditures;
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment - 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 75% of other local expenditure;
(c) Direct cost of forestry and horticulture plantations - 80% of
expenditure;
(d) Soil Conservation - 70% of expenditure;
(e) Cattle Exchange Program - 70% of expenditure;



-35-
(f) Minor Irrigation Works - 70% of expenditure;
(g) Incremental Operating Costs (excluding salaries) - 70% of
expenditure; and
(h) Research - 100% of expenditure.
4.10    Disbursements to MOA for the Watershed Development Council would
be made as follows:
(a) Vehicles and Equipment - 100% of local expenditure
(ex-factory) and 75% of other local expenditure;
(b) Incremental Staff and Operating Costs - 30% of expenditure;
and
(c) Project Evaluation Costs - 100% of expenditure.
Bank disbursements would be made against MOA certified statements of
expenditure incurred by participating states and by WDC. Such certified
statements would include a statement to the effect that all expenditures
incurred were in accordance with the technical and financial criteria for
watershed development agreed with the Bank and were in conformity with the
agreed amounts specified in the subwatershed plan. Disbursements for all
force account work, salaries, local training, and civil works contracts
costing less than Rs 300,000 and other procurement involving expenditure
of less than Rs 150,000 for vehicles and equipment, for which it would not
be practical to submit documents would be retained by MOA and participat-
ing States and would be made available for inspection by Bank project
review missions. Disbursement againslt all other items would be fully
documented. Certificates of expenditures would be audited at least once
every year and a report submitted to tLhe Bank promptly thereafter. All
disbursement applications would be forwarded and processed through the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA). The project is of seven years dura-
tion and estimated disbursements in the first five years would be low
(32%) compared to the Bank wide disbursement profile for the same period
(66.5%) for Bank assisted agriculturaL projects. Disbursements would,
however, pick up in the sixth and seventh project years. Reasons for
lower disbursement rates in the first five years are (a) phased coverage
of subwatersheds and the need to prepare, appraise and sanction sub-
watershed projects in the first five years, and (b) that soil conservation
(land levelling) on agricultural lands would be taken up only in the
fourth project year. GOUP would be able to substantially speed up project
expenditure from the fourth year onward and achieve the proposed disburse-
ment targets. Schedules for project implementation and disbursements are
presented in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2.



-36-
4.11    GOT, through MOA, would cause GOUP to maintain separate accounts
for each subwatershed project. Separate accounts would also be maintained
by WDC. These would be audited annually for each fiscal year, in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles consistently applied and audit reports
submitted to the Bank as soon as available. In addition GOI would cause,
through MOA, GOUP and WDC to submit certified copies of project accounts
to the Bank within nine months of the end of the fiscal year, and such
reports would show, inter alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the
purpose intended, that goods have been received or work performed, and
that payments have been made. All reports would be submitted by MOA to
DEA (GOI) for onward transmission to the Bank.
4.12    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the disbursement
and audit procedures set out above (paras 4.09 - 4.11) would be followed.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Central Organization
5.01    By recent Gazette Notification, GOI has established a National
Land Board to approve the national policy for management, conservation and
development of land resources. Headed by the Union Minister of Agricul-
ture, the Board would comprise the lJnion Ministers for Irrigation, Works
and Housing, and Environment, one Minister from each of the States and
Union Territories, and the Member Agriculture of the National Planning
Commission. An officer of the statuas of Joint Secretary/Watershed
Development Commissioner (GOI) (para 5.03) would be the member-secretary
of the Board.
5.02    As part of the same Gazette Notification, GOI has also established
a National Land Resources Conservation and Development Commission (NLRCDC)
to formulate national policy and perspective plans for conservation,
management and development of land resources in the country taking into
account appropriate land use, soil capability and other relevant factors.
NLRCDC is also expected to review the progress of implementation of
programs concerned with conservation of soils, integrated land management
in catchments of river valleys, ravine reclamation, flood control, social
forestry, etc.  NLRCDC would be headed by the Member Agriculture in the
National Planning Commission and would comprise Secretaries from the
Ministries of Agriculture, Irrigation, Rural Development, Works and Hous-
ing, and Environment, other Central Government agencies, and experts and
representatives from five states. The member-secretary oE the National
Land Board (para 5.01) would also be the member-secretary of NLRCDC.



-37-
5.03    NLRCDC would be provided a Secretariat, located within MOA and
with responsibility for coordinating the planning and implementation of
programs related to land resource management, conservation and develop-
ment. The Secretariat would be headed by the member-secretary of NLRCDC
and of the status of Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner
GOI (paras 5.01 and 5.02) and who, for administrative purposes would be
responsible to the Secretary for Agriculture. The Secretariat would
contain a Watershed Development Council (WDC) which would have overall
responsibility for execution of the proposed Project and the proposed
Rainfed Farming Project (currently under appraisal).
5.04    Overall responsibility for coordination and execution of the
project would thus be with MOA. WDC (para 5.03), acting under the direc-
tion of the Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner (para
5.03), would appraise subwatershed projects submitted by the participating
States and in accordance with the general criteria set out in paras
3.04-3.12. Appraisal reports would then be submitted to a National
Watershed Development Policy Committee (NWDPC), chaired by the Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture (GOI) and comprising the Agricultural Commissioner
(GOI), Animal Husbandry Commissioner (GOI), Inspector General of Forests
(GOI), a representative of the Mlinistry of Finance (GOI), Chief of the
Agriculture Division, Planning Commission, concerned Secretaries from the
participating States and the Director., Soil and Water Conservation
Institute, Dehra Dun. The Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commis-
sioner would act as member-secretary of NWDPC. NWDPC would have the
powers to approve or reject subwatershed projects and would have overall
supervisory responsibility for execution of the Project. These latter
functions, on a day to day basis, would be carried out by WDC (para 5.06).
The proposed national level organization is illustrated in a chart (World
Bank 24839).
5.05    While the National Land Board and NLRCDC will have a wide range of
responsibilities relating to land resources management, conservation and
development and will be concerned with various ministries of GOI, NWDPC,
chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (GOI) and WDC will have
specific responsibility for Watershed Management in the Himalayas and
rainfed farming development which might be located throughout India.
Initially, both NWDPC and WDC will only be responsible for the proposed
project in UP, but this responsibility will shortly be augmented with the
addition of the Rainfed Farming Project (covering four states) and cur-
rently under appraisal. Furthermore, it is expected that additional
projects would be added as and when the outcome of the presently proposed
pilot projects is known.
5.06    WDC would comprise specialists in Forestry, Soil Conservation,
Agriculture, Economics and Sociology, and include research staff to coor-
dinate the increased needs for applied and adaptive research. The regular
staff would be supplemented by hiring of local consultants for appraisal



-38-
and supervision of subprojects. WDC would be provided with administrative
support staff and a monitoring unit. Details of staffing and cost of WDC
are given at Annex 1, page 2. WDC would have the following functions:
(a)  Appraisal of the technical and economic feasibility of sub-
watershed plans that would be progressively prepared by GOUP
and submission of these plans for approval of NWDPC;
(b)  Release of funds to GOUP for project implementation;
(c)  Assist with and monitor implementation of subwatershed
projects by:
(i) reviewing periodic progress reports on project achieve-
ment and, subsequently, project completion reports;
(ii) reviewing six monthly State reports on physical
implementation in order to prepare a summary report for
the Bank;
(iii) reviewing statements of expenditure to ensure authen-
ticity, keeping project accounts, claiming reimbursement
from the Bank, processing budget requests and reviewing
annual statements of audited accounts;
(iv) visiting subwatershed projects on a regular basis,
reporting on progress and problems in implementation and
providing advice on suitable remedial measures; and
(v) organizing training programs for State staff at National
Institutes; and
(e) Arranging for the interim evaluation of project actions so as
to enable appropriate feedback to project management at all
levels.
5.07    As a condition of invitation to negotiations, GOI had issued
orders setting up National Watershed Development Policy Committee and
Watershed Development Council.  Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that:
(a) GOI would create the required staff positions for WDC;
(b) Appoint the Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commis-
sioner by September 30, 1983; and



-39-
(c) GOI would ensure that a Project Completion Report, would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank within six months of the
Project Closing Date.
5.08    An understanding was reached during negotiations that:
(a) Representatives of WDC would make on-site supervision visits,
at least twice na each fiscal year, to each subwatershed
project under implementation and communicate to the Bank, in
a form to be agreed, the results of such visits; and
(b)  The Joint Secretary/Watetshed Development Conmissioner,
heading the Secretariat of NLRCDC, would by 31st of March
each year furnish the Bank with the annual wo^k program of
WDC.
State Level Organization
5.09    State Level Steering Committee (SC).  In Uttar Pradesh, a SC would
be established and chaired by the Chief Secretary or delegated by him to
the Secretary of the Ministry substantially responsible for project
implementation (Secretary, Hill Area Development Department). The SC
would comprise Secretaries of Finance and other relevant ministries, heads
of participating Departments, Deputy Commissioners from concerned dis-
tricts and Vice Chancellor of GBPUAT. SC would be responsible for formal
approval of subwatershed projects before presentation to GOI, ensuring
a coordinated approach to project implementation and adequate staff
deployment, reviewing progress of implementation and resolving problems of
execution.  A Project Coordinator (PC), of appropriate status (Addl. Chief
Conservator of Forests) and working under the concerned ministry the
State, would be responsible for coord:inating and implementing all project
actions and also act as Member/Secretary of SC.
5.10    The PC would be assisted by a State Watershed Management Cell
(SWMC) and which would comprise specialists in forestry, soil conserva-
tion, agriculture, livestock development, forest economics, sociology and
include relevant support staff. The Cell would have the following respon-
sibilities:
(a) Preparation of subwatershed/microwatershed development
proposals with assistance from field staff;
(b) Release of funds for project implementation;
(c) Assist and monitor project implementation by:



--40-
(i) visiting project areas on a regular basis, reporting on
progress and problems in implementation and suggesting
remedial measures;
(ii) processing annual development plans and work plans for
microwatersheds for approval of SC;
(iii) reviewing seasonal technical reports on progress of
different project components;
(iv) reviewing and comp:iling six monthly progress reports on
physical implementation for presentation to SC and GOI;
and
(v) reviewing statements of expenditure, keeping accounts,
forwarding reimbursement proposals to GOI, processing
budget requests and reviewing annual statements of
audited accounts.
(d) Assessing training requirements for staff locally and at
National Institutions; and
(e) Coordinating Project research (studies) activities.
5.11    Prior to negotiations, the Government of Uttar Pradesh had (a)
issued formal orders setting up SC, (b) created the necessary staff posi-
tions for SWMC, and (c) made adequate budget provision for the above. As
a condition of invitation to negotiations, the Government of Uttar Pradesh
had appointed a Project Coordinator.
Project Implementation
5.12    A new W4atershed Development Department under the Secretary, Hill
Area Development Department has been formed and is responsible for
activities of all Departments working in Hill districts of UP.
5.13    District Level.  A district would cover a number of subwatershed
areas. The heads of line departments located at the district level would
coordinate subwatershed development activities concerning their depart-
ments. In addition, it would be necessary to ensure concerted efforts to
identify and resolve problems of implementation in each subwatershed.
Inter-departmental coordination at the district level would be ensured
through a District Coordination Committee chaired by the District Commis-
sioner and consisting of district heads of concerned departments and
elected representatives of the District Panchayat. The Committee would
coordinate project work with other ongoing development activities in the
district.



-41--
5.14    Subwatershed Level (SW).  Each SW would consists of 3-20
microwatersheds (10,000-60,000 ha). A Subwatershed Management Unit would
be set up in each SW and would comprise a Project Manager with technical
staff from concerned departments, and assisted by clerical and accounting
staff. This Unit would be responsible for project implementation -
preparation of annual plans of action and detailed work plans, executing
these plans and assisting in preparation of new projects for further
subwatershed development.
5.15    Microwatershed Level.  Success of the project would depend on the
extent of involvement of local people in planning and implementation of
various project activities. To ensure this, a Management Committee would
be set up in each microwatershed chaired by the Project Manager (SW) and
comprising Panchayat Chairmen, the Block Development Officer, local
revenue staff and concerned project staff. The Committee would agree on
the annual plan of action and detailed work plan for each microwatershed,
help project staff obtain people's participation in different activities
especially closure of common grazing areas, establishment of plantations
through communal effort and support for farm forestry programs, and execu-
tion of minor irrigation schemes. The Committee would also organize
action groups at the village level to assist in project execution. The
annual work plan would include (a) identification of areas of project
action, (b) a calendar of operations, and (c) nature and extent of local
people's participation.
5.16    The proposed state level organization is illustrated in a chart
(World Bank 24584).
5.17   Prior to negotiations, GOUP had (a) issued formal orders setting up
District Coordination Committees, (b) created the necessary staff posi-
tions for the Subwatershed Management Unit, and (c) made adequate budget
provision for the above to cover the first project year. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that Microwatershed Management Committees
(one for each microwatershed) would be set up.
Peoples Particpation
5.18    Each microwatershed usually covers more than one village
panchayat. As the project affects all the residents within the
microwatershed, agreement to resolve common issues would have to be
arrived at by more than one panchayat. This would be ensured through the
Microwatershed Management Committee (para 5.15). To incorporate peoples'
participation in planning, determining priorities, implementation of
different activities and in protection/maintenance of structures, the
Management Committee would maintain constant contact with the residents of
the microwatershed. The sequence of actions involved would be:



-42-
(a) discussion of proposed project activities with the residents
in each village, explaining reasons for different components
and the purpose of each. The formation of village action
groups would then follow;
(b) explaining the role of people in making a success of each
project component and deciding on priorities;
(c) preparation of an action plan based on agreed priorities;
(d)  discussion of the action plan in each village and obtaining
agreement on (i) locations where project actions are to be
carried out, (ii) extent of peoples participation required in
execution, and (iii) people&s responsibility for protection
of project works; and
(e) provide guidance to establish water users groups for equi-
table distribution of water and maintenance of irrigation
structures.
5.19    The main stages of the Project Cycle and responsibilities of
different institutions are given in Annex 5.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20    An essential feature of the project would be the monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and its impact. The system would generate
data with which to measure output, effects and impact of project actions
thus providing management guidance to those responsible for project
implementation and permit in-depth studies enabling a realistic assessment
of longer term effects brought about by the project.
5.21   Project Monitoring.  Monitoring would ensure continuous gathering
of information on project inputs and activities, and on conditions and
complementary activities that are critical to the success of the project.
It would utilize basic information prepared during project design/
preparation phase and data generated by the baseline survey (para 3.04)
and continue throughout the project-s lifetime comparing the data col-
lected against the original objectives and standards. Monitoring would
thus help in alerting project management and policy makers to implementa-
tion problems requiring corrective action and also provide information for
project evaluation.
5.22    The project would be monitored at three levels.  Firstly  at the
subwatershed, then at State and GOI levels. Prior to preparation of an
action plan for development of individual microwatersheds, a baseline
survey would be prepared by the State Watershed Management Cell (para
3.04). Details of survey design, questionnaires to be used, sample



-43-
methodology and reporting format would be mutually agreed upon between
GOI/GOUP. Equally, it would be necessary for the Project Manager to
continue to collect data on a continuous basis on various project inputs
and activities, and physical and financial achievements.
5.23    Monitoring at the State level would be the responsibility of the
Watershed Management Cell and would include: (a) a comparative examination
of watershed performance withiin the State; (b) recommendation on areas
that should be intensively monitored and proposed changes in the monitor-
ing system; (c) provide assistance to Project Managers in identifying and
improving weak areas; and (d) collation of monitoring reports and forward-
ing the collated report with comments to the State Steering Committee and
Watershed Development Council (GOI).
5.24    At GOI level, project monitoring would be the function of the
Watershed Development Council, especially the Economist. This Council
would perform, with appropriate modification, the same functions as those
of the State Cell except, that it would be responsible for coordination of
reports from all project States and forwarding of these to the Bank at
prescribed intervals. An understanding was reached at negotiations that
GOI would submit to the Bank six monthly progress reports, each June and
December, giving details of staff position, a summary of activities under-
taken in the past six months, and physical and financial targets achieved
and problems encountered during project implementation.
5.25    Project Evaluation.  Evaluation would ensure a continual analysis,
during project implementation, of project outputs, effects and overall
developmental impact. This would provide project management and policy
makers with analytical support that may be necessary to enable them to
assess and, if required, adjust policies, objectives and institutional
arrangements and resources affecting project implementation. Evaluation
studies would also provide feed-back for preparation of new projects.
5.26    Two categories of evaluation would be undertaken during the
project period; (a) ongoing evaluation, and (b) a mid-term review.
5.27    Ongoing evaluation would cover two main aspects:  technical and
behavioral evaluation. Technical evaluation would involve an examination
of the success, or failure and of the modifications necessary to the
technical packages applied in project implementation. Behavioral evalua-
tion would be primarily concerned with people's response to and percep-
tions of project input delivery systems and institutions.  The data so
collected would provide an additional dimension to the information
gathered under the monitoring system. The areas covered by such evalua-
tion would include: success of peoples participation efforts in planning
and implementation, reasons for adoption or non adoption of forestry and
pasture management practices, cattle exchange program and stall-feeding,
and access to various inputs.



-44-
5.28    Both technical and behavioral evaluation would lead to the need
for special studies which would be short term in nature (covering a period
of not more than three months) on subjects directly related to project
design and performance.
5.29    An approved agency would, under a long term contract, be respon-
sible for project evaluation under the overall direction of WDC (GOI),
especially the Sociologist. The project would provide separate funds for
this purpose. All proposed ongoing evaluation and special studies would
require the approval of WDC.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that GOI and GOUP would (a) identif'y, by September 30, 1983, and to the
Bank's satisfaction, institutions competent to undertake ongoing evalua-
tion and special studies, and (b) forward to the Bank, for review,
relevant evaluation reports and special studies.
5.30    Mid-Term Review.  Given the innovative nature of the project, it
was agreed during negotiations, that a mid-term review of the project
would be undertaken by a joint teamL from GOI/GOUP/Bank and within the
first quarter after the completion of the third project year. This exer-
cise would be in the nature of a re-appraisal wherein the project con-
cepts, design, allocation of funds, staffing patterns, and components
would be re-assessed in the light of performance. This could result in
substantial modifications to the project and approach originally approved.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY
Yields and Production
6.01    The project would, in addition to benefits derived from erosion
and flood control, increase production of fuelwood, timber, fodder, fruit
and agricultural products from the watersheds developed. Fuelwood has
been assumed to be harvested in years 10 and 20 after planting, yielding
23, 48, 18, 5 tons per ha in Forest Reserves, Private Forests, Fodder
Plantations and Farm Forestry respectively. Timber would only be har-
vested after the end of the 20-year period assumed in the calculations and
is therefore not included in the benefits. Grass production for cattle
feed is based on yields gradually increasing from 0.5 to 3 tons per ha in
fuelwood plantations years 1-8 after plantation establishment and in
fodder plantations yields will reach 4 tons per ha in the third year after
planting. Leaf fodder yields have 'been assumed gradually to increase from
0.1 to 0.5 tons/ha years 3 to 10 after planting in fuelwood plantations
and from 1 to 5 tons per ha over the same period in fodder plantations
(Annex 3, Table 9). In agriculture, in addition to yield increases due to
irrigation and extension services provided under the project, additional
production would also result from an increased cropping intensity and a
shift from local to improved varieties. Yield assumptions are given in
Annex 3, Table 3 and summarized below:



-45-
TABLE 6.1: AGRICULTURE YIELD ASSUMPTIONS
(quintals per ha)
Increment
W            due Project
P       W      Irrig  Unirrig   Irrig  Unirrig
Paddy
Local                    9        9       10       10        1        1
HYV                     12       12       20       14        8        2
Wheat
Local                    8        8       10       10        2        2
HYV
Unirrigated           11      11         -       12        -        1
Irrigated             12      13        20       -         7
Barley                  12       12       12       12        -        -
Millet (Ragi)
Local                  9       9         9        9            -
Improved               -      12        12       12        -        -
Pulses                   8        8       10        8        2        -
Soyabean                 -       -         5        5        5        -
Oilseed                  6        6        9        6        3        -
Fruit                    -       -        70        -       70        -
P = present
W = future without project
W = future with project
6.02    On the assumptions given in para 6.01 above, during the 20-year
lifetime of the project, an additional 3.2 million tons of fuelwood, 3.2
million tons of grass, 1.5 million tons of tree fodder, 0.3 million tons
of mixed fruit, and cash and food crops of a net incremental value of some
US$ 360 million would be produced.
Marketing of Produce
6.03    Most of the incremental agricultural production resulting from the
project would be consumed by the local population and would, therefore,
not create any marketing problem. Fuelwood balance studies, in the sub-
watershed where detailed planning is completed, show that the fuelwood
produced would satisfy local demand. Marginal amounts available for sale



-46-
to neighboring areas would be sold through local traders. The estimated 5%
increase in milk production would be consumed in the project area.
Increased horticultural production would be marketed through existing
fruit marketing organizations.
Farm Incomes
6.04    The impact of the proposed project on farm incomes was analyzed
on the basis of one ha farm models (Annex 3, Tables 1-4), The results,
summarized in Table 6.2 below, indicate that farmers' net cash incomes
would increase by almost 60% when provided with irrigation and by about
30% without irrigation. From this analysis, it appears that the returns
to farmers are substantial enough to ensure adequate participation.
TABLE 6.2: PROJECT IMPACT ON FARM INCOMES
(-0C0 Rs/ha)
Incremental
With Project    due to Project
P        W       Irrig  Unirrig   Irrig  Unirrig
Uttar Pradesh
Gross Value of Production   1.9        2.0       3.2       2.6       1.2     0.6
Cash Costs                   0.2       0.3       0.5       0.4      0.2      0.1
Net Cash Income               1.7      1.7       2.7       2.2      1.0      0.5
P = Present
W   Future without project
6.05    Cost Recovery.  In UP, marginal farmers, small farmers, farmers
belonging to Scheduled Castes and Tribes and others identified under the
Integrated Rural Development Program are entitled to subsidies, ranging
from 33-50%, for different development activities. The project would not
introduce any new subsidy except for the provision of buffaloes in
exchange for unproductive local cows. This component is seen as an essen-
tial part in the process of changing the livestock husban,dry pattern from
free grazing to stall-feeding. Suclh an exchange program would not be
possible without the subsidy.
6.06    Given that hill areas are generally food deficient it has been
State policy to fully subsidize minor irrigation development. As such, no
cost recovery is proposed. Maintenance of irrigation works would,
however, be done by beneficiaries. Horticulture loans are provided by
credit institutions as government Taccavi loan (from budgetary sources)
and would be recovered according to existing procedures. Loans for soil
conservation (land levelling) are provided by government budgetary sources
and would also be recovered under existing procedures.



-47-
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01    Incremental Production.  The direct quantifiable benefits from the
project would be increases in production of fuelwood, timber, fodder,
fruit, and agricultural products amounting to Rs 1.4 B over the 20-year
life of the project. These increases would directly benefit local popula-
tions living in upper catchment areas.
7.02    Employment Creation.  Project works would generate a total of 46 M
mandays employment over its 20-year lifetime. On the basis of 225 work-
days a year, this would be equivalent to providing 10,000 workers with
full time jobs over the same period, each receiving an annual income of
over Rs 1,800 (US$190). This employment would mainly benefit the poor and
unemployed living in the project area. An estimated 16 M mandays would be
saved in collecting fuelwood due to the project plantations. This labor
would be more productively employed in agriculture which through the
increased activities is estimated to require an additional I M mandays
annually at full project developmenit or a total of about 16 M mandays over
the 20-year project life.
7.03    Environmental Effect.  The direct production effects generated by
project actions provide sufficient economic justification for the project.
The project is a pilot scheme leading to a long term program for control
of erosion within upper watersheds of the Himalayas, aimed at reducing
run-off and decreasing the silt load of rivers. Little data is, however,
at present available to evaluate the economic effects of controlling
erosion and flooding. The project would, nevertheless, contribute to
improving the data base for the evaluation of such effects.
7.04    In support of the nature of benefits to be derived from erosion
and flood control, experimental results elsewhere in India have shown that
soil conservation measures similar to those proposed under the project
reduce soil losses from 30-40 tons/ha/year to 1-3 tons/ha/year. A reduced
soil loss of only 10 tons/ha/year would, over the project area, leads to
annual reductions of 3.4 million tons of silt in rivers leaving the
project area. Reductions in siltation would lead to better preservation
of fertile top soils on both agricultural and forest lands, prolonged life
of downstream dams, reduced flooding as a result of smaller flows of water
and absence of siltation causing reductions in size of streams and river
beds.



-48-
B. Economic Analysis
7.05    Economic Rate of Return.  The overall economic rate of return of
the project is 23%, based on the direct measurable production benefits and
total project costs. The rates of return of the projects major subcom-
ponents are summarized in Table 7.1 below.  Of the individual project
components, the rate of return for forestry, although it includes both
wood and fodder production, is mainly a reflexion of the high opportunity
cost - particularly due to the transport factor - of supplying a sub-
stitute source of energy for house-hold purposes. The high return to the
extension and seed distribution components is typical of such programmes,
which usually yield high benefits at. relatively little cost. Horticul-
tural development gives a high rate of return and is included as an essen-
tial part of a package providing farmers with incentives to bring about
changes in land use. Investements in minor irrigation under the project,
yield high returns.
TABLE 7.1:   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (%)
Forestry                                    24
Extension                             over 100
Horticulture                                35
Irrigation                                  64
Total                                    23
7.06    All values are expressed in constant mid-1982 prices.  The
economic analysis has been made in border Rupees with international prices
converted to Rupees at the exchange rate of US$ 1 = Rs 9.5.. Local costs
have been converted to border Rupees by applying a standard conversion
factor of 0.8. In addition to the standard conversion factor, the finan-
cial cost of labor has been adjusted by a factor of 0.8 during peak
agricultural seasons and 0.6 at other times to reflect the real value of
labor given high rates of unemployment and under-employment:. Traded goods
and services have been valued on the basis of their c.i.f. import prices.
Non-traded goods and services have been adjusted by appropriate conversion
factors (Annex 3 Table 8). The economic value of fuelwood has been calcu-
lated both on the basis of the long-term marginal economic cost of supply-
ing a substitute source of energy (soft coke) for house-hold use and on
the basis of labor savings in its collection. Both calculaLtions yielded
similar results.
7.07    Sensitivity Analysis.  The switching values show that a reduction
in benefits by 47% or an increase in costs by 87% would bring the economic
rate of return down to the opportunity cost of capital, assumed to be 12%.
The high rate of return of the project and its relative insensitivity to



-49-
changes in costs and benefits is largely a reflexion of the high level of
benefits derived from the extension and seed programs. In addition,
investments in forestry, due to the long gestation period, tend to be
insensitive to moderate changes in benefits. However, as may be seen in
Table 7.2 below, the project shows a certain degree of sensitivity to
delays In the flow of benefits. Should these be delayed by more than
three years, then the rate of return would be equivalent to the oppor-
tunity cost of capital. Such a delay, however, would be unlikely. It
should also be noted that no benefits have been included for improvements
to the downstream agricultural areas resulting from improved watershed
management and soil conservation measures. These benefits, are likely to
be considerable although difficult to quantify as explained in para 7.03.
Although no benefits from soil conservation measures have been included in
calculating the rate of return of the project - due to the speculative
nature of quantifying such benefits - certain calculations have been made
of the benefits required to justify such investments. These calculations,
based on farm budgets (Annex 3, Tables 1-4) and using economic values show
that, on average, terracing works are justifiable if without the invest-
ment farmers incomes would have decreased by at least 5% per annum due to
soil erosion. These calculations would be refined in the research com-
ponent of the project (paras 3.47 and 3.48) and taken account of in the
selection of areas to be treated.
TABLE 7.2:   SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Switching Values
Total benefits, output prices
or yields                                    -47%
Total costs                                     87%
Economic Rate of Return
Base Case                                       23%
Total benefits, output prices
or yields
down 10%                                      21%
down 20%                                      19%
lagged one year                               20%
lagged three years                            15%
Total costs
up 10%                                        21%
up 20%                                        20%



-50-
7.08    In the case of the cattle-exchange program, no benefits from
increased milk production have been included in the raLte of return cal-
culations for the project. There are two reasons for this, firstly there
is the risk of double-counting of benefits with those derived from
increased fodder production and secondly it is difficult to establish to
what extent this milk would not have been produced anyway, elsewhere in
the economy, since the animals are alreay of milking age when transferred
to project areas. Calculations of the benefits derived from the veteri-
nary program, however, show that such investments are economic and that
the rate of return exceeds 12% if, as a result, total milk production
increases by about 1% in the projectL area. These results should not be
difficult to obtain with the improved veterinary services to be provided.
C. Risks
7.09    The proposed project would be the first attempt to implement, in
an integrated manner and on a more meaningful scale, a number of inter-
dependent and interacting components designed to minimize the further
deterioration of the Himalayan ecosystem caused by depletion of forest
cover, overgrazing and bad land use, all of which have resulted in
increasing erosion and which in turn exacerbates flooding in the Gangetic
Plain.  Hence, it would be subject to the risks and uncertainities that
are usually associated with any project of a pilot nature. Some of the
major risks are summarized below: (EL) inadequate peoples participation -
the components selected for development such as land closure, stallfeeding
of livestock, cattle exchange and forest plantations are such that they
cannot succeed unless the people perceive themselves as direct
beneficiaries and fully involve themselves in planning and execution of
project components. As part of project strategy, farmers are likely to
have to forego production of crops from presently cultivated (once in 3-4
years) marginal land, stop free grazing of cattle and participate in
controlled extraction of fodder and fuel. However, such risks would be
minimized because of peoples awareness of the deteriorating situation in
which they live, intensive extension activities to increase productivity
of good land, and provision of minor irrigation and horticultural develop-
ment activities, all of which would enhance incomes. Furthermore, the
project organization is so designed (paras 5.15 and 5.18) that local
people would have full opportunities in planning and executing programs at
microwatershed and village levels; (b) increase in human and cattle
population - the degradation of the Himalayan ecosystem has, to a large
extent, been caused by increased human and cattle populations. This
project would change land use practices so as to improve the general
welfare and living of the existing population. However, if the project is
to have long lasting effects on the IHimalayan ecosystem, it is important
that the inevitable increase in popu:Lation will not lead to a regression
to old practices. There are reasons why such a regression would be a
minimum: (i) in the Nayar subwatershed, in a situation with high cattle



-51--
and human density and severely degraded land, families have already made
adjustments by sending able bodied men to the plains to work as wage
earners and about 60% of present subsistence comes from remittances, and
(ii) the fundamental change from free grazing to stallfed cattle is cru-
cial to preservation of the biological cover and would be beneficial to
the people and as such it is unlikely that this practice, which will be
enforced by the community, would be changed even if population pressure is
increased as it is beneficial to all; (c) technical risks: since the
replicability of project activities is a significant factor, greater
emphasis would be given to low cost agricultural and silvicultural solu-
tions, rather than to expensive engineering works, for conserving soil and
reducing excess run-off from rainfall. Technical packages are available
for these approaches and would be reinforced and supplemented by research
activities which have been included in the project; (d) non-availability
of labor: labor shortages due to migration of men to the plains in UP and
in areas in close proximity to towns may hamper project implementation and
subsequent maintenance. It is, however, expected that any increases in
effective demand for labor will result in increases in wage levels that
will be adequate to attract sufficient labor to the project area; and (e)
organizational and management risks: the project would be implemented by a
number of line agencies and would require a degree of coordination among
these agencies. This could be an important constraint to the timely and
efficient implementation of the project. However, the establishment of
suitable coordination mechanism at GOI and State levels, as well as plan-
ning and implementation committees at district and microwatershed levels
(paras 5.13-5.15), continuous monitoring and evaluation of project
activities (paras 5.20-5.28), and the local enthusiasm to implement the
project, programs would help minimize such risks.
7.10    It is apparent from the above that the proposed project faces no
unusual implementation risks and that the project design includes adequate
safeguards to minimize the effects of the factors that could possibly
affect its viability.
VIII. AGREEMENTS OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    The following conditions were met by GOI and GOUP before loan
negotiations:
(a) GOI issued orders setting, up the National Watershed Develop-
ment Policy Committee and the Watershed Development Council
(para 5.07); and
(b) GOUP had appointed a Project Coordinator (para 5.10).
8.02    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI on the
following matters:



--52-
(a) That the criteria agreed with the Bank would form the basis
of the preparation, appraisal and sanction of subwatershed
projects (para 3.12)
(b) Land reshaping on agricultural land would not: be undertaken
until the outcome of thie proposed research haLs been discussed
with the Bank and apprcval of the Bank given to implement the
program (para 3.22);
(c)  Only buffaloes would be used for cattle exchange and that as
a condition of disbursetment against this component the
Government of UP would prepare detailed rules governing the
cattle exchange program (para 3.23);
(d)  Research work would be carried out in cooperation with
institutions acceptable to the Bank and that the outline and
work plan for project research actions would be ready by
September 30, 1983 (para 3.48);
(e)  That all subwatershed projects appraised by INIDC prior to the
Mid-term Review would be sent to the Bank for comment and
approval prior to sanction by GOI and release of funds (para
4.06);
(f)  GOI and GOUP would follow the procurement procedures set out
in para 4.07 and disbursement and audit procedures set out in
para 4.09 to 4.11 (paras 4.08 and 4.12);
(g) That GOT would (i) create the required staff positions for
WDC, (ii) appoint the Joint Secretary/Watershed Development
Commissioner by September 30, 1983, and (iii) ensure that a
Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to
the Bank within six months of the project Closing Date (para
5.07);
(h)  That Microwatershed Management Committees (one for each
microwatershed) would be set up (para 5.17);
(i) GOI and GOUP would: (i) identify by September 30, 1983, and
to the Bank's satisfaction, institutions competent to under-
take ongoing evaluation and special studies, and (ii) forward
to the Bank for review relevant evaluation reports and
special studies (para 5.29); and
(j) A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken by a
joint team from GOI/GOUP/Bank within the first quarter after
the completion of the third project year (para 5.30).



-53-.
8.03    The following points were also discussed and an understanding
reached:
(a) That the criteria agreed with the Bank would form the basis
of the preparation, appra-isal and sanction of subwatershed
projects (para 3.12);
(b) GOUP would complete the development of all nine watersheds
approved and started under the project (para 4.05);
(c) Representatives of WDC would make on-site supervision visits,
at least twice in each fiscal year, to each subswatershed
project under implementation and communicate to the Bank in a
form to be agreed, the results of such visits (para 5.08);
(d) GOI would, by 31st March each year, furnish the Bank with an
annual work program (para 5.08);
(e) GOI would submit to the Bank six monthly progress reports,
each June and December, giving details of staff position, a
summary of activities undertaken in the last six months, and
physical and financial targets achieved and problems
encountered during project implementation (para 5.24).
8.04    With these conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a loan of US$46.20 M to GOI on standard Bank terms.



5 4 -                                              24792 1
Table I
INDIA
HIMhALAN WATERSHED MANAG8NENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
Sobataterahad Project CoasC
Year 1         2          3          4           5          6           7          1-7           8          9           1-9
Forteetry
SwI                                1,073      2,891       3,434      3,928       3,971        -           -        15,297          -           -         15,297
SW2       (2.19)                     -        2,350       6,331      7,520       8,602      8,696         -        33,499          -          -          33,499
SW3       (2.48)                     -           -        2,661      7,17C       8,516      9,741      9,848       37,936          -          -          37936
0W4       (4.55)                     -          _           -        4,882      13,154     15,625     17,872       51,533       1068          -          69,601
SW5       (5.68)        .            -          -           -          -         6,095     16,421     19,505       42,021       22,311     22,555        86,887
SW6       (2.78)                     _          -         2,983      8,032       9,546     10,920    11,039        42,525          -          -          42,525
Forettry Total                     1,073      5,241      15,409    31,537      49,884      61,403     58,264    222_ 81_        40,379    22,555        285,745
Soil Caoar.otltin Wor-k (SCW)
SWI                                   49         172        255        991       i1loi        -           -         2,568          -          -           2,568
0W2                                   -           98        343      1,261       1,382      1,502         -         4,586          -          -           4,586
SW3                                   -           -         221      1,298       1,460      1,540       1,532       6,051          -          -           6,051
00W4                                              - -9 75                        2,022      2,655      2,810        8,432        2,854        -          11,336
W15                                                          -         -         1,770      2,465      2,8949       7,184        3,652      3,713        14,549
SW6 (S.ray.)                          -           -         147      1,193       1,722      2,071       2,096       7,229         -            -          7,229
SCW Total                             49         270        966      5,713       9,457     10,228       9,387      36,070        6,506      3,713        46,289
Liveato-k Develop=ent (LI)
SW0                                  225         678        973      1,077       1,127        -           -         4,080          -          -           4,380
SW2                                   -         493       1,485      2,131       2,359      2,468         -         8,936          -           -          8,936
SU3                                   -           -         558      1,691       2,415      2,671       2,793      15,118          -          -          10,118
SW4                                   -             -        -       1,024       3,085      4,427       4,900      13,436        5,128        -          18,564
SW5                                   -           -          -         -         1,278      3,851       5,527      10,656        6,117      6,401        23,174
SW6 (Soraye)                          -           -         626      1,885       2,705      2,994       3,133      11,343       _-            -          11,343
LD Totol                             225      1,171       3,642      7,798    12,967       16,411      16,355      58,569       11,245      6,401        76,215
Agrlcolt-rol Develop..nt (Al)
SWI                                   68         107        112         102         61         -           -          450           -           -           450
SW2                                   -          136        214        224         204         122         -          90C           -           -           900
S03                                   _           -         175         274        286         261        152       1,148           -           -         1,148
SW4                                  -           -          -         320         501        522         477       1,824          274          -         2,094
SW5                                   -           -          -           -         408        642         672       1,722          612         366        2,700
SW6 (SOroyo)                          -           -         204         321        336         306        183       1,354           -                     1,350
AD Total                              68        243         705      1,241       1,796      18353       1,484       7,390          886         366        8 ,642
Horticultoral De-elop-rnt (HD)
9111                                  58        208         293         293        298        -           -         1,142          -           -          2,442
8W2                                   -          129        458         642        642         631        -         2,502          -           -          2,502
SW3                                   _           -         146        518         727        725         714       2,832          -          -           2,832
S04                                   -           -          -         268         951      1,333       1,333       3,885        1,310        -           5,195
S05                                   -           -          -           -         335      1,187       1,664       3,186        1,664      1,636         6,486
s86 (Sorayo.                          -           -         164         581        815        815         801       3,176          -           -          3,176
HI Total                              59         338      1,061      2,302       3,758      4,693       4,512      16,723        2,974       1,636       21,333
Minor Irrication (MI)
SWI                                   66         177        265        391         479        -           -         1,378          -           -          1,378
082                                   -          132        354        530         782        958         -         2,756          -          -           2,756
W3                                    -           -         165         442        663        978       1,197       3,445          -           -          3,445
8W4                                   -           -          -          297        797      1,193       1,760       4,047        2.155        -           6,202
SW5                                   -           -          -           -         330        973       1,458       2,761        2,150      2,635         7,546
SW6 (Sra-ya)                          -           -         185         496        742      1,095       1,341       3,859          -           -          3,859
MI Totol                              66         309        969      2,156       3,793      5,197       5,756      18,246        4,305      2,635        25,186
sobwtatrthtd Adm.
Incr-t. Staff S88                    713         794        863         747        551        -           -         3,668          -          -           3,668
82  2.19             -        1,561      1,739      1,890       1,636      1,207         -         8,033          -           -          8,033
SW3  2.48             -          -        1,768      1 969       2 140      1,853       1,366       9 096          -          -           9,096
0W4  4.55             -          -          -        3,244       3,613      3,927       3,399      14,183        2,507         -         16 690
SW5  5.68             -          -          -          -         4,050      4,510       4,902      13,462        4,243      3,130        20,835
SW6  2.78             _          -        1,982      2,207       2,399      2,077       1,532      10,197        _-            -         10,197
SA Tota1                             713      2,355       6,352     10,057      14,389     13,574      11,199      58,639        61750      3,130        68,519
S-oty Sob.t-atrahed
Poreacry                           1,073      5,241      15,409     31,537      49,884    61,403    58,264    222,811           40,379    22,555        285,745
Soilctosttvatlao                      49         270        966      5,713       9,457    10,228        9,387      36,070        6,506      3,713        46,289
Live-co-k                            225      1,171       3,642      7,798      12,967     16,411      16,355      58,569       11,245       6,401       76,215
Agrftaltora                           68        243         705      1,241       1,796      1,853       1,484       7,390          886         366        8,642
Hortticltort                          59         338      1,061      2,302       3,758      4,693       4,512      16,723        2,974       1,636       21,333
Minor Irigation                      66         309        969      2,156       3,793      5,197       5,756      18,246        4,305      2,635        25,186
Sobaterahed Adm.                    713      2,355       6,352     10,057    14,389       13,574     11,199       58,639        6L,750     3,130       68,519
Total                             23253       9,927      29,104     60,804      96,044    113,359    106,957      418,448       73,045     40,436       531,929
Snrsary Pr)jeot Sopport Ueit
W.terahed Ad..                       424         321        398         278        298         513        298        2,530         298         298        3,126
Stat. Project UTit                   505         459        550         326        326         326        326       2,818          326         326        3,470
R..eacoh                             307         342        237         187        187         187        187       1,634         _187         187        2,008
Total                              1,236       1,122      1,185         791        811      1,026         811       6,982          811         811        8,604
Total B.ae Cast UP                 3,489    11,049       30,289    61,595    96,855   114,385    107,768    425,430             73,856    41,247        540,533
Phyalcol Contige-tias /1             70         221        606      1,232       1,936      2,288       2,155       8,508       _L,477         825       O1,81D
Total Intl. Physic. Cont.          3,559     11,270      30 895    62,827       98,791   116,673   109,923        433,938       75,333     42,072       551,343
Yrita acalatitn /2                   303      1,936      8,022    213985    42 555    60,323    66,306          201 910      _82857       33 815      286,582
GRAND TOTAL                        3,862    13,206    38,917    84,812    141,346   176,996   176,709    635,848    128,190    75,887                   839,925
11  At I10  on Sollcne. ert. tioo, Mioor Icrigatioa and Adnlntitrativ- .c.t  rqaally 2% on total coda.
/2  At year 1 - 8.5!, Year 2 - 8.0%, Year 3 - 7.5Z, Year 4 - 7.0Z, Ytar 5-9 - 6.0%.



ANNEX I
Table 2
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL - COST ESTIMATES
(Rs  000)
Nos.  Unit Cost   Year I    Year II   Year III  Year IV    Year V    Year VI   Year VII    TOTAL
1. STAFF SALARIES
Watershed Development 1/        1       54.00       54.00      54.00      54.00      54.00       54.00      54.00       54.00       378.00
Commissioner
Technical Cell
Forestry                      1      30.00       30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00        210.00
Soft Conservation             1      30.00       30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       210.00
Agriculturvi                  1      30.00       30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00        210.00
Economics                     1      30.00       30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       210.00
Sociology                    1       30.00       30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       210.00
Research Coordinator 2/    1         30.00       30.00       30.00      30.J0      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00        210.00
Research Scientists 27       3       24.00       72.00       72.00      72.00      72.00       72.00      72.00      72.00        504.00
Deputy Directors 3/           3      24.00        72.00      72.00      72.00      72.00       72.00      72.00      72.00        504.00
Administrative & Support
Staff
Administrative Officer        1      24.00        24.00      24.00      24.00      24.00       24.00      24.00      24.00        168.00
Accounts Officer             1       20.00       20.00       20.00      20.00      20.00       20.00      20.00      20.00       140.00
Support Staff 4/            15       15.00      225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00          225.00    225.00    225.00    1,575.00
Drivers                      3        8.00       24.00      24.00       24.00      24.00       24.00      24.00      24.00       168.00
Monitoring Cell
Statistician                  1      24.00       24.00       24.00      24.00      24.00       24.00      24.00      24.00        168.00
Support Staff                6       90.00       90.00      90.00       90.00      90.00       90.00      90.00      90.00        630.00
Sub Total: Salaries                   785.00       785.00    785.00    785.00    785.00         785.00    785.00    785.00    5,495.00
2. OPERATING COSTS
Vehicles                        3       30.00       90.00      90.00      90.00      90.00       90.00      90.00       90.00       630.00
Travel                                  70.00       70.00      70.00      70.00      70.00       70.00      70.00       70.00       490.00
Office                                  25.00       25.00      25.00      25.00      25.00       25.00      25.00       25.00       175.00
Consultants 5/                                     100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00         100.00    100.00      100.00        700.00
Project Evaluation 6/                              160.00    320.00    480.00    640.00         800.00    640.00    480.00    3,520.00
Remote Sensing 7/                                  100.00    200.00    200.00         -           -          -           -          500.00
Sub Total: Operating Costs                         545.00    805.00    965.00    925.00   1,085.00    925.00    765.00    6,015.00
3. CAPITAL COSTS
Vehicles (Cars)                 3       90.00      270.00                  -          -                 -                -          170.00
Furniture & Office
Equipment 8/                                    100.00       50.00       -          _           -          -          -           150.00
Sub Total: Capital Cost                            370.00      50.00       -          -           -          -           -          420.00
TOTAL                                            1,600.00  1,440.00  1,550.00  1,710.00   1,870.00  1,710.00  1,550.00   11,930.00
1/  Equivalent to Joint Secretary, GOI.
2/ Research Coordinator assisted by three Research Scientists would ensure that rainfed farminig and agricultural
implements research conducted at concerned National institutions and States meet the needs of the project area.
The Research Coodinator will be located in the Center and Research Scientists at relevant National institutions.
In addition to research the group would organize and conduct trainiing for Watershed Managers and SMS.
3/  Three Deputy Directors to assist senior scientists in project unit.
4/ Would include seven steno-typists and other clerical staff.
5/ Consultants would be used to assist in the appraisal of subprojects and as technical advisors.
6/  Project evaluation would be assigned to suitable institutions witin the country.
7/  Cost of remote sensing studies to determine changes in land use.
8/ Includes furniture, photocopying unit, typewriters, tc.



-56-
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
Watersheds, Subwatersheds and Microwatersheds
Watershed         Subwatershed           Microwatersheds          Area '000 ha
Nos.
Nayar                 1. Randigad                 4                    16.1
2. Nayar Right             2                    10.1
3. Paschimi Nayar         22                    76.0
4. Machiad                  4                   16.8
5. Purvi Nayar            19                    69.5
6. Nayar Left               8                   25.3
7. Rudraprayag              4                   15.2
8. Srinagar                11                   36.6
Saryu                 9. Panar                    9                    46.4
83                  312.0



-57-
ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Subwatersheds and Microwatersheds
Year    Subwatershed                 Microwatershed         Area '000 ha
NOs
1         (1)  Machiad                      4                  16.8
2         (2)  Srinagar                    11                  36.6
3         (3)  Randigad                     4
(4)  Nayar Right                 2                  87.8
(5)  Rudraprayag                 4
(6)  Panar                       9
4         (7)  Paschimi Nayar              22                  76.0
5         (8)  Purvi Nayar                 19
(9)  Nayar Left                  8                  94.8
83                 312.0



-58-                         ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
Cropping Pattern for 1 ha Farm
(Ha)
Future                 Future
Crops                     Present         Without Project         With Project
KHARIF
Paddy
Local                0.35                0.35                    0.05
HYV                  0.05                0.05                    0.35
Millet
Local                0.40                0.30                    0.10
Improved              -                  0.10                   0.25
Pulses                   0.04                0.04                    0.04
Soyabean                  -                   -                      0.10
RABI
Wheat
Local                0.45                0.40                    0.05
HYV
Unirrigated        0.05                0.05                   0.20
Irrigated           -                  0.05                   0.25
Barley                   0.10                0.10                    0.05
Oilseeds (mustard)       0.02                0.02                    0.10
Pulses                   0.04                0.04                    0.06
Total Cropped Area         1.50                 1.50                   1.60



ANNEX 3
59-                             Table 2
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
Farm Budget for 1 ha Farm
(Rs.)
Future             Future          Future
Cropping Pattern          Present      Without: Project    With Project   Net Mil. Proj.
Irrigated
KHARIF
Paddy
Local                441.00          441.00              70.00          (371.00)
HYV                   84.00           84.00             980.00           896.00
Millet
Local Ragi           396.00          297.00              99.00          (198.00)
Improved               -             132.00             330.00           198.00
Pulses                    96.00           96.00             120.00            24.00
Soyabean                   -               -                 66.00            66.00
RABI
Wheat
Local                540.00          480.00              75.00          (405.00)
HYV
Unirrigated         83.00           8.3.00            332.00           249.00
Irrigated            -              90.00             600.00           510.00
Barley                   132.00          132.00              66.00            (66.00)
Oilseeds (mustard)        36.00           36.00             270.00            234.00
Pulses                    96.00           96.00             180.00             84.00
Gross Value of
Production               1,904.00        1,967.00           3,188.00          1,221.00
Cost of Production
Labor                      480.00          480.00              600.00           120.00
Bullock Labor              375.00          375.00             375.00              -
Seed                       120.00          120.00              120.00             -
Manure/Fetilizer           100.00          120.00              350.00           230.00
Pesticides                  10.00           20.00               35.00            15.00
1,085.00        1,115.00           1,480.00           365.00
NET INCOME                 819.00          852.00            1,708.00           856.00



-60-.                           ANNEX 3
Table 2(a)
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
Farm Budget for 1 ha Farm : Unirrigated
(Rs.)
Future             Future         Future
Cropping Pattern          Present     Without Project    With Project   Net Mil. Proj.
KHARIF
Paddy
Local                441.00          441.00              70.00         (371.00)
HYV                   84.00          84.00             686.00           602.00
Millet
Local                396.00          297.00              99.00          (198.00)
Improved               -            132.00             330.00           198.00
Pulses                    96.00           96.00              96.00             -
Soyabean                   -               -                 32.50            32.50
RABI
Wheat
Local                540.00          480.00              75.00          (405.00)
HYV                   83.00          166.00            877 .50          711.50
Barley                   132.00          132.00             156.00            24.00
Oilseeds (mustard)        36.00           36.00              40,.00            4.00
Pulses                    96.00           96.00              96.00             -
Gross Value of
Production               1,904.00        1,960.00           2,558.00           598.00
Cost of Production
Labor                      480.00          480.00             600.00           120.00
Bullock Labor              375.00          375.00             375.00             -
Seed                       120.00          120.00             150.00            30.00
Manure/Fetilizer           100.00          100.00             220.00           120.00
Pesticides                  10.00           20.00              15.00             5.00
1,085.00       1,085.00           1,360.00           275.00
NET INCOME                 819.00          875.00           1,198.00           323.00



-61-                         ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
Yield per Hectare (in Kgs) and Cost per MT
Future                 Future          Cost per
Crop                   Present    Without Project          With Project       M.T. (Rs)
Unirrigated Irrigated
Paddy                                                                         1,400
Local               900             900          1,000       1,000
HYV               1,200           1,200          1,400       2,000
Maize                                                                         1,200
Local               800             800            800         800
HYV               1,100           1,100          1,400       2,000
Millet (Ragi)                                                                 1,100
Local               900             900            900          900
Improved             -            1,200          1,200       1,200
Ginger                4,000           4,000          4,000        5,000       2,000
Pulses                  800             800            800        1,000       3,000
Soyabean                 -               -             500          500       1,300
Wheat                                                                          1,500
Local               800             800          1,000        1,000
IHYV
Unirrigated    1,100            1,100          1,200       1,200
Irrigated       1,200           1,300            -         2,000
Barley                1,200           1,200          1,200        1,200        1,300
Peas                     -               -              -         1,000       2,000
Oilseeds (Mustard)      600             600            600          900       3,000



INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Per Hectare Labor Requirements (Mandays)
Crop         Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
1. WHEAT
W        7     7    15    25                                                30    15        99
W        7     7    15    30        -     -      -      -     -       -    30    20        109
2. PADDY
W        -     -    -       -       20    20    30    10    10         25   10    -        125
W       -      -    _      _       20    20    30    iO    i0         25   15    -         130
3. MAIZE
W        -     -    -       -       20    10    13    20    10         10   -      -        83
W        -     -    -       -       20    10    13    20    10         15   -      -        88
4. GINGER
W        -     -    -       -       15    15    15    20    15        20   10    -         110
W        -     -    -       -       15    15    20    20    15        20   15    -         120
5. PULSES
W        -     -    -       -       15    10    10    15    10        10   -       -        70
W        -     -    -       -       15    10    10    15    10        10   -       -        70



-63--
ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Fruit Orchard 1 ha
400 PlaTnts/ha
(Rs)
Year  1          2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9         1U-20
Production Costs
Lay- Out and Pegging           75.00        -           -           -            -           _           _            _           _           _
Digging, Filling            1,200.00        -           -           -                                    -           -            -           -
'aim Yard Manure &           600.00       900.00   1,200.00   2,000.00   2,000.00   2,000.00   2,000.00   2,000.00   2,000.0U   2,00O.U0
Fertlizer
Plant Material                600.00        -           -           -            -           -           -                        -
Pesticides                    100.00      200.00      400.00      600.00       800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00       8U0.00      800.00
Other Labor Costs               -         200.00      400.00      400.00      800.00       800.00   1,000.00   1,000.00   1,000.00   1,000.00
2,575.00   1,300.00    1,800.00   3,000.00   3,600.00   3,600.00   3,800.00   3,800.00   3,800.00   3,800.OU
Incoes
Rs.a 100/quintal               -           -           -           -       1,200.00   2,500.00   4,000.00   6,000.00   7,000.00   7,000.00



-64-
ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED M.NAGEMENT PROJECT
Horticultural Budget
For 20 Trees Farm Plantation: 20 m2/Plant or 400 ms2 or 0.04 ha
(Rs)
Year  1         2           3          4          5           6          7          8           9                  11-2U
Costs
Digging, Filling               50.00       -           -          -          -           -                      -
Pits 1/
Farm Yard Manure &             20.00      40.00       60.00      80.00      60.00       80.00      60.00      80.OC       65. 1)    80..C      7U.U.
Fertlizer
Plant Material                 18.00       -           -          -          -           -          -          -                     -          -
Pesticides                      8.00      10.00       15.00      15.00      25.00       25.00      25.0l.     25.00       25.60    25.u0       25.5U
Other Operations               12.00       12.00      18.00      24.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.o0   35.51u    3l(vC          30. UJ
('abor) 2/
108.00      52.00      93.00     119.00      115.00     135.00     115.00       35.00    115.0G   1335.         2
Benefits
Fruit Yield @                   -          -           -          -          -         100.00    100.00      150DO      250.00   250.0U    25U.UJ
Rs. 100/quintal
1/  Digging pits & filling will be done by family labor q Rs. 2.50 per pit.
2/ Other labor for cultural operations would be provided by family labor.



-65-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
HItALAYAN WATERSlIED M4ANAGEMENT PROJECT
Price Build-up for Economic Analysis
Rice/Paddy      Wheat      Urea      TSP     .KCI
1. Projected Average World Market
Price 1985-90 (US $/t) a/                      371             175       240     185      105
2. Adjustment for quality differentials
(factor) and bags (US$/t)                        0.7 b/          1.0     -        30       30
3. Adjusted Projected Price                        260            175       240     215      135
4. Freight to India port (US$/t)                    25             30        15      65       65
5. CIF price at port (US$/t)                       285            205       255     280      200
6. Handling and transport cost between
port and local store (US$/t) c/                  15             15        15      15       15
7. Price in local store (US$/t)                    300            220       270     295      215
8. Processing, handling and transport
cost between local store and farm gate
(US$/t) d/ e/                                  -23            -10        10       10       IC
9. Sub-Total                                       277            210       280     305      225
10. Processing Ratio                                  0.65           1.0       1.0      1.0
11. Farm gate price (US$/t)                         180            210       280     305      225
12e Farm gate price (Rs/t)                         1710           2000      2660    2900    2140
a/ Source: IBRD Price forecasts dated December 21, 1982.
Pricing Basis: Rice: Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok
Wheat: Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring (CWRS), in store Thunder Bay
Urea: FOB Europe, bagged
TSP: FOB US Gulf, in bulk
KC1: FOB Vancouver, in bulk
b/ For 25-35% broken
c/  1500 km at Rs 180/t adjusted by SCF 0.8 = Rs 144 plus 3 handlings @ Rs 2 adjusted
by SWR 0.6 and SCF 0.8 = Rs 3; Total Rs 147 = US$ 15
d/  Basis headload of 20 kg, 4 km to market, 2 km/hr gives Rs 200/t adjusted by STR 0.8
and SCF 0.8 = Rs 96/t = US$ 10/t (US$ 15/t rice)
e/ Rice milling and handling Rs 65 per t paddy or Rs 100 per t rice adJusted by
SCF 0.8 = Rs 80/t = US$ 8/t



- 66-
ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED YKANAGEMENT PROECT
a/
Financial and Economic  Price Assumptions,
Financial -rices            Economi c Prices
Outputs                  1982  1985/90               1982  1985/90
Paddy                         1135    139fl                1395    1710
Wheat                         1300    1360                 1910    2000
Millet                          900    1010                1215    1360
Barley                        1100    1230                 1485    1660
Pulses                        2800    2800                 3780    3780
S-'joyabean                   lD1   1100                  1485    1485
Oilseeds (mustard)            2800    2800                 3780    3780
Fruit b/                      13003   1300                 1000    1000
Fuelwood c/                    200      200                 250      250
Tree fodder/grass               26       26                  26       26
a/  Economic prices of wheat and paddy passed on IBRD commodity forecasts
for 1985-90 dated December 21, L982e Other non-traded and minor food
crops have been adjusted by a Foodcrop Conversion Factor (FCF)
estimated on the basis of wheat and paddy production valued at econ-
omic prices divded by their fi-lancial prices (FCF = 1.355
b/  Adjusted by SCF = O 38
c/  Economic price estimated through two approaches both yielding the same
same result: (i) labor saved in collectisng wood and (ii) as the
long-term marginal economic cost to supply soft coke as a substitute
for firewood.



-6 7-
ANNEX 3
Table 9
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
YIELD PROJECTIONS
Incremental Yield       Period
ton/ha
Grass
Fuelwood plantation                          0.5 - 3          Year 1-8, 11-18
Fodder plantation                              2 - 4          Year 1-20
Fuelwood
Fuelwood plantation                           23 - 48         Year 10, 20
Fodder plantation                               18            Year 10, 20
Farm Forestry                                    5            Year 10, 20
Fodder
Fuelwood plantation                          0.1 - 0.5        Year 3-20
Fodder plantation                              1 - 5          Year 3-20






HIAAYAN 41A2ER021.I MANAGEMENT 1R00.10(7                                                                                                                                             Table 10)
1         2           312                                                                                                                             1                       137                     17           1           19          20      TOTALS
Foret Reseve                 200.00   1338.00    4023.00   1)438%.0    24730.30    400424.42.   s5333.5c    15972QQO   47958.00    37650.00             26861.50        08222.50   1.3475. 56    o2-.00   I   24)9. 52   40624.50   55333.50   55972.00o   40938.00   37186.00   616323.600
Civil Soya                   4(0.00   2470.00    1900.00   22463.00   4431000    7092l.50   96007.00            95271.00    01301.00    62964.06        65256.00      30607.50   25222.00   27110.00   60510.00   70926.50   96807.00   90221.00   81361.00    62864.00  1059735.5l
Fode  Fle                   0.0       500        5128 05   14232.00    51230.00    56700.00   86962.00   101116.00   111272, 00   11120207 2.00             .00     110152.00  100584.00  202668.00   90108.00   89350.00   86967.50  103116.00  111270.00  111272.00  1550756.00
Toool Grass  800.00   0154.00    6039.704   40141707~~~~~~~~1 1,650.50   1t'3.0   306.5      04470    2805 71D.04  2-1 173200        46005 T05.0140.3 1N10   16-4-970.50  200010.0500  230716)8 50  254315 7 . 00  340571.06  2:11316.001  3226610.00
loose  Raserve                 0.00       6.00        0.00        co           .oo         5,.         00    .00                  0.00      2300.00     11957.00       36 109 .00   01070.00  110151.00  1393127.00  12964.00          co            .oo        0.00    7300.00   500388.00
121000 loya                    0.00       0.00        0.0         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00          0.00         0.0       0600.00     45024,00    101856,00  261092.00  80009.00  001920.00  446112.00                0.00        0.00         0.00    9600,00  1592992.00
ladde- Flat                    0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00          0.00)      0.00          0.00         0.0       1800.00       9060.00      08012.00   65080.00  107156.00  165892.00  166800.00             0.00        O(  0.00              180.00 5soo  02524.00
lore Farearey  0.00  0.00   0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00      3000.00      11570.00      31750,00MO  59600.000  89600.00,0107020.00  101975.000           0.0070.90lf0.005.ooo.oo9086609.00
_________   -  _________   __________   _________                             226207.00  454447.00  714400.00  871964.00  824375.00             0.50        0.00         0.00   16700.00   3202029.8800 0.00  000    670.00  322579.0
Fodd-r(os
la.est lares0.00                          0.00       10,0        01.90      782.10t      000.50    1799.20        3392,00      5945.70      7451.06       904,7.00      9955.70    9787.00    8-103.90    6120.60    3610.30         1799,20    5992.00    9695.70    0651.10    84271.50
(tel  .oY..                    0.00       0.0 2v 0.00           133.80      02230       1056720    5258.20       6004.20       9605.80    12932,7        10604.20      17078.60   16654.50   14C41.30   10189.30    6105.70    3229,20    6004.20    9605.80   12932.70   165375.20
Fode -Fet                   o.o        0.00      10.6        7000       264.0         630.4~0  20O3U4.m411    39066.20    60041,.03    92a083o    1J4280.110    020032.00  i26i70.00  2112:40.00   836,00    4,9420.00   2080400             5064.80   1.7062.00   900676.00  1066828.00
Illar   oety00                             .0         00          00         9.0         980        258540        479.0        025.6 1u320Q4.0           171.0         2633          353o0   02315.00   19108.90   11185.50    2399.45           4879.80    879.60   13200.40   075669.10
Total ladder           o.oo~~~~0-0  0.0- O _ 132 _02     45.70    401_.04       1161.0    20776.60    541390,0    93642.91'    1)6304,26         ,8060.60    1249617130    5043.2    49 1 45.900 - 72350T. 00   07726.00   54139.70 064.0 25020132.0
OorticaAooroAOt..24,  uaa~~a    0.00  3.06      0.1100      1.1         r2.2,,2     74.1,        4300 24o83 S/.j6       *lo.6U        9Ao9-Un5-3.9 00             2i0,7.l    26001.00   2932910 .a8.s    3208                  15.00 JZ.W0) 31A/3 .0    31205.171(    3i1015.0    006258.00






-69-
ANNEX 3
Table 11
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
(Rs Million)
Year      Forestry  Soil Conser-  Livestock  Extension andl Horticulture   Minor Irriga-  Project Ad-   Total   Total                 Net
Program   vation Works  Program    Seed Program   Developmnent 1/ tion Works 1/  ministrative  Costs   Benefits  Benefits
1       0.55           0.03          0.00          0.05            0.04             0.04             2.84         3.55       0.00       -3.55
2       2.67           0.15          0.14          0.19            0.21             0.21             3.91         7.48       0.13       -7.35
3       7.86           0.52          0.47          0.56            0.65             0.65             7.27        17.98       0.79      -17.18
4      16.08           3.09          1.11          0.99            1.40             1.44            10.05        34.17       2.92      -31.25
5      25.44           5.11          1.54          1.44            2.29             2.54            13.66        52.02       7.67      -44.34
6      31.32           5.52          1.68          1.53            2.86             3.48            13.49        59.89      15.89      -44.00
7      29.71           5.07          1.10          1.33            2.75             3.86           12.26         56.08      26.98      -29.10
8        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      38.85       28.13
9        1.14          0.15          0.19         0.78             0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      41.25       30.53
10        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      44.15       33.43
11        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      51.58       40.86
12        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      69.88       59.16
13        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72    107.31        96.59
14        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72    162.18       151.46
15        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72    223.52       212.80
16        1.14          0.15          0.19         0.78             0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72    264.21       253.49
17        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72    251.97       241.26
18        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      45.72       35.00
19        1.14          0.15          0.19         0.78             0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      46.85       36.13
20        1.14          0.15          0.19          0.78            0.00             0.00             8.46        10.72      47.44       36.72
1/ Operating and maintenance costs beyond project investment period (year 7)
have been deducted directly from the Gross Revenues for these items.



ANNEX 3
Table 12 (a)
I N[) I R
HIMRLRYR WRTERSHED MRNRGEMENT PROJECT
X104
L30.0                                _
a:
Lii
25.0
20.0
Lii
: 15. 0 L
LOi
x104 1 1  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  2'3  24
DISCOUNT RRTE
LEGEND
= 12.00% - OPPORTUNITY COST OF CRPITRL
-   = B.ETOT
-            -____________   -  C.ETOT
_                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



-71-                               ANNEX 3
Table 12 (b)
I N D I R
HIMRLRYR WRTERSHED MRNRGEMENT PROJECT
~90
580
z 70
z 60
>40
bc30 30
-20
10-
0      5     10     15     20     25      30     35     40     45
PERCENTRGE SHORTFRLL IN BENEFITS
LEGEND
= MAXIMlJM EXPECTED FRLL IN BENEFITS IS  20.0%
= MAXIMUJM EXPECTED RISE IN COSTS IS             30.0%
-____________ -   = TARGET YIELD IS                     0.0%
BENEFIT SWITCHING POINT IS -46.6%
COST SWITCHING POINT IS           87.t1



INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT RPOJECT
Physical Implementation Schedule
Unit    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7    Total
Fuelwood Plantations                ha       300       1,457    4,230    8,544   13,468   16,179   14,922   59,000
Fodder Plantations                  ha       100         520    1,584    3,510    5,952    7,994    8,140   27,800
Farm Forestry                       ha       600       2,314    6,346   11,680   17,995   21,605   20,460   81,000
Brushwood/Check dams                no        -           20        84       234      390       507       415    1,650
Crate Wire Dams                     no        -           20        64       180      253       400       383    1,300
Drop Structures                     no        -            5        26        74       150      208       237       700
Improved Terraces                   ha        -           -         -     i,326    i,780    1,580    1,314    6,000
Cattle Exchange                     no        50         210       682    1,392    2,429    2,768    2,969   10,500
Dispensaries (improvement)          no         3           6         8        12        11      -         -          40
Top Working of Fruit Trees          ha        10          72       243       564      960    1,034    1,017    3,900
Fruit Orchards                      ha         5          31        95       209      335       415       410    1,500
Living of Channels                  km         2           9        20        31        50       68        70       250
Storage Tanks                       no         1           5        21        63      129       197       235       650
m



-73-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
US$ M
--                    Disbursement ---------------------
IDA Fiscal
Year and              UP                       Center         Total
Semester     Semester  Cumulative    Semester  Cumulative  Cumulative
FY 84
lst         -           -              - 
2nid       0.10        0.10           0.12       -            0.22 1/
FY 85
lst        0.40        0.50           0.05      0.17          0.67
2nd        0.50        1.00           0.05      0.22          1.22
FY 86
lst        0.80        1.80           0.05      0.27          2.07
2nd        1.30        3.10           0.05      0.32          3.42
FY 87
lst        1.70        4.80           0.10      0.42          5.22
2nd        2.20        7.00           0.10      0.52          7.52
FY 88
1st        2.80        9.80           0.10      0.62         10.42
2nd        4.30       14.10           0.,10     0.72         14.82
FY 89
1st        6.40       20.50           0.10      0.82         21.32
2nd        6.40       26.90           0,,10     0.92         27.82
FY 90
1st        6.10       33.00           0.10      1.02         34.02
2nd        6.00       39.00           0.05      1.07         40.07
FY 91
1st        6.08       45.08           0,.05     1.12         46.20
1/ Estimated effective date August 15, 1983



-74-                                          ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cycle and Responsibilities
Activity               Responsibility                    Action                            Content
1. Preparation of Subwatershed    State Watershed        - Preparation of subwatershed        - Detailed plan and cost
Projects                        Management Cell         reports including details            estimates for each com-
for each microwatershed.             ponent as per appraisal
criteria.
- Discussion of proposed opera-    - Details of operations
tions with people in project         under each component.
area.
- Clear with concerned depart-       - Tentative implementation
ments at district and state          plan.
level.
- Planning to prepare project        - Analysis of economic
reports 12 months in advance.        benefits.
- Map of project area.
Submit proposals to State          - Detailed estimates for
Level Steering Committee.            proposed works (soil con-
servation, civil works,
etc.)
- A note on results of dis-
cussions with people,
their response to project
proposals, and willingness
to participate in project
activities.
2. Approval of Subwatershed         State Level          - Review if appraisal criteria       - While making recommenda-
Projects                        Steering                have been met.                       tions for approval by
Committee                                                   NWDPC confirm availability
- Review of cost estimates.            of budget provision, and
incremental staff, and
- Obtain formal approval of            action taken to set up
Secretaries of concerned             implementation committees.
departments.
- Budget provision and clearing
with finance.



-75-                                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
A       c ti_v __ _        Responsibility                   Action                             Content
- Pass on to National Watershed
Development Policy Committee
(NWDPC), GOI.
3. Appraisal                         Watershed             - Designate Appraisal team com-    - In case of rejection of
Development             prising experts of WDC and            proposals give detailed
Council (GOI)           consultants.                          reasons and suggestions for
improvement.
- During appraisal check (a)          - Suggestions (if any) on
whether appraisal criteria            minor modifications, project
has been followed, (b) ade-           implementation, etc.
quacy of detailed designs
proposed, (c) cost estimates,
(d) technical soundness and
economic viability of propo-
sals.
- Obtain approval/comments of         - Recommendations.
IDA.
- Submit to NWDPC with recom-
menidations for approval or
rejection.
4. Sanction                          National Watershed  - Review recommendation of WDC.    - Sanction letter would con-
Development Policy                                            tain detailed instructions
Committee            - Approve or reject proposals.           and directions on procedures
for releasing of funds,
- Simultaneous actions on proj-         reporting procedures, and
sanction and release of funds         other project implementation
to States.                            matters.
5. Implementation                    (a) Subwatershed    - Discussion of project acti-           - Obtain agreement on loca-
Management         vities with residents of               tions for different
Committee          microwatershed and formation           project actions.  Prepare
(b) Microwatershed    of village action groups.               calendar of operations and
Management                                                define responsibilities of
Committee        - Fix priorities and prepare             village action groups for
action plan based on agreed           different activities.
priorities.
- Discuss action plan in each
village.
- Formation of water users groups.



-76-                                                 ANNEX 5
Page 3
Activity                Responsibility                      Action                              Content
District              Discussion of action plan and
Coordination          fixing responsibilities.
Committee
State Level           Approve Action Plan and release
Steering              funds.
Committee
6. Supervision                       State Watershed        Visit Project Area on a regular          Suggestion for resolving
Management Cell       basis, discuss problems and take         technical, administrative
remedial action.                         and coordination problems.
Watershed             Designate supervision team               Progress of each project
Development           comprising experts of WDC and            component, peoples partici-
Council (GOI)         consultants and carry out detailed   pation, adherence to agreed
supervision of project activities    criteria and coordination
in each state.                           arrangements.  Suggestion
for improvement.
7. Monitoring and Evaluation          Subwatershed          - Preparation of six monthly             - Physical progress of each
Management Unit         progress reports and send to              project component and pro-
State WMC.                               gress of expenditure.
State Watershed       - Compilation of six monthly             - Review and reasons for
Management Unit         reports of subwatersheds and              slow progress and remedial
submit to State Level Steering           action needed.
Committee for consideration
and also to MOA (GOI).
- Prepare and forward reimburse-
ment proposals to GOI.
Water Development   - Review six monthly progress              -- Suggest remedial action
Council (GOI)           reports and statements of                 to states.
expenditures received from
States.
- Process requests for reimburse-
ment.
- Arrange for periodic evaluation
of project components.



-77--
ANNEX 6
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Related Documents Available in Project File
1.   Preparation Reports - Uttar Pradesh
(a) Integrated Watershed Rehabilitation and Development Project - UP
Himalayas and Siwaliks
(b) Nayar Watershed Zone
(c) Machiad Subwatershed
2.   Subwatershed Plans Prepared by IDA
(a) Machiad Subwatershed (UP)
3.   Supporting Tables for Economic Analysis



-78-
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GOI Project Organization
NATIONAL LAND BOARD
Chairman: Union Minister for Agriculture
NATIONAL LAND RESOURCES
_-  -  -  -    -   -  - -         _-         COSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
Chairman: Member Agriculture, Planning Commission
NATIONAL WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
POLICY COMMITTEE
Chairman: Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture
SECRETARIAT
NATIONAL LAND RESOURCES CONSERVATION & DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER
IL                ,      &WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATIVE          TECHNICAL & TRAINING      MONITORING & EVALUATION
-               UNIT                       UNIT                        UNIT
L.1
World Bank-24839



-79-
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
State Project Organization
CHAIRMAN            S       SERING
CEF SECRETARY    --COMMITTEE
I                        I
SECRETARV 
SECRETARY                       |          PROJECT          ___A|
HILL DEVELOPMENT DEPMTMENT (UP)                    COORDINATOR                                                                   S I--STATE
I  ;   I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~I   I
WATERSHEDi
MANAGEMENT CELLl                                                           l
DISTRICT COMMISSIONER
DISTRICT COORDINATION
COMMITTEE           --- DISTRICT
L L   PROJECT MANAGER     l                                   l
--|         SUBWATERSHED       L   -         --  ----
MANAGEMENT UNITBWATERSHED
MICROWATERSHED
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE                                                      --  - MICROWATERSHED
Chairnan: Project Manager
World Bank -24584






IBRD 16811R
820 |  S   \                   .      APRIL 1983
/   76                    78'      >                  80                              82d
5rinrDgor                                /          /~~~~~~~3de                         I N D I A
,  oAp.rted eby h  o           HIMALAYAN  WATERSHED  MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JAMMU and KASHMIR  \_                                                            UTTAR PRADESH
~~~  4o,sno ~~~~~~~~~~Projec t  Locations
dpp-m/ed Boy
-.XJ omm_u                           os Indlcoted by /sdio   \  K                Project  Sites                     h  yscal Relief (meters)
A;m ,\)-  Arterial Roads                     3000
K~s\                                            <    1      1S            o       Selected Towns                    500
and Villages                    200
Pthankot                                                            M Main Rivers    j
r32                        H I M A C H A L 
Batala
PRADESH                                                                                 State Boundaries
'1'z'/  \  )2  OSundazrna ugo :r-  <,  <       e                                      International Boundaries
-   Jullunrdur
i   0   ui   ur  C , \ t    S i   I  o?                                              0 100        2 0 0   K ioin e ters
7          1~~~~~~~~~~16
CH NDlGAR rqndjgurh0                                                                   /
P U) N  J A  B        \   tbh6on   ~oTehri                             ,rX
PUNJAB~Arnbao*   ah~ aDa rII                                                                                                                    Q
j 300     AnqblpX          7       ~~~Dehra   ;    <        g'j               \,                       ti                                  3
(     r      fSatraanpur b Hardwar                             /
aranpur   ~         Pithoragorhj
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
' \ ^S) g 0 pt ,r) ~~~~~~~~~Almorao9                          Jy ~ 
,Mu'zffarnagar          0Noinit                                                       *  .
rt  R-  \HARYANA                                       Tai         -e,rut
B<m                             bee prepareil l y                   i, ire ne    bo
L >   ,< j/57           (I \,    XA~~~~~~I So   S               hahohiha npur                                                    K~ "m
|i redr a  s n                                                    i,Math  the in  s t               iaa
P  'R<  \  A           D              r Sd H       e an       n
tawo                 -. >     n       o    W        nah id ba 
,RJASTHAN                                                                       np5 n ur             ~                 <           3 <
on tne  egal stals si an/   terr\to    o  an  endors'es  or oeplan26b
7-260                        7~                            t824Varanas
24<    _gs1                        M  A  D  H \YA                           P RA  D E S H 
F         <A                                               ragar                             
'  /  /  g                     \                  /      j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th,s map has bee, prepared by The World BaWkJ s1att ex-l-sIvy tor the I.n-emerce ot
p   \  /  /   <                         >               /      ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the read-r and s exclus.vefy for the ffernai use of The Wbrld Bank and the Interational
|   jia nl                    RBhopal                    |      abcilpr             mPY O: nanc   opoa,t f The Wod  Bnk andtinghe I rntet-oal Fman,e r bpora bo, any Judgmeint
I   M    G   /                           \           /            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on the legal stat-s ot any terrtory or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundares
y  576/                  ~~~     ~    ~ ~~~7\8        80                              82                          84






I N  D I A
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
R i ver_> ,-' \ Noyar Watershed
Alagr ~~~2     t, RDRXKkRYXG\ 
Srinagr i1 o                                         /' 2   /  1 \                     -    Nayor Watershed Boundary
/-    i \I_Sub-watershed Boundaries
#-    --T--- r-  -'   4    /  3                                       Ms  ~  -  Nlicrowatershed Boundaries / Numbers
a  /   ,   0   v    >    S IR  I N IA  G  A  R         \0    Selected Villages
\1 )   ) 1  \Pgurt \\    /   8  <\9  \  %<s   ~_   _ )  )  ---  State Boundaries
International Boundaries
t\RANDGDg ,    6s-W                                                     3 
/     4  '  I /          /    A CH Mi    \\NA YA'                  , R
f-5n  3   0 40                                                     5       10     15      20      25 Kilomsete,s
3   4dowb\                        14\  <  2  ,  pS   ,4 ,4 X          N           '"'"i~tt' [ t 4 t r CI
GHT/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z         w            \  /   \    s1                                               any~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h jugenonvneC  ath leglsbts  _.  :   N  
w                                                                         %_   (  17    x,    Sndorsementoracceptanceof -25- 2 t /? 9 \ ( 25 - 79~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ead rs an ,s  sn ss ketr  sr th
UTAA H-A.
t D     6      u       chbouns 12                                              :) . \         CHItr t     BHAR
>!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue an te akrdnet hs.i                                 PR AD ES H    ,5_
NM                                                                 TW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a th- ep d- nkt rrPltr.-e Be  )
4          5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr tThe World Bank andth
z                                                                                   any jiragment en the legal staths~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:1f -1   h
C                                                                                            St arty tenitartr or arty  25e    ~~~~~~~~~~~~C~-'-*~~~1.k4,--.h  (  -2-5FW-
1 5                   ..d -d fh. endor.eden  ora h-tak  atR A - D  E-IAR 
-c  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W0-kb he-daCres                             im
MADHYA PRADESH           SE~~C 
CO                                                                                                                             Ce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



