Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3570-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP}
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$46.2 MII
TO INDIA
FOR THE
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 4, 1983)
US$1.00        =  Rs 10.012002
Rs 1            =  US$0.09988
Rs 1 million   =  US$99,880
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 - Rs 9.5, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
-Abbreviations and Acronyms used in this Report
GOI      -     Government of India
COUP     -     Government of Uttar Pradesh
m.a.s.l. -     meter above sea level
MOA      -     Ministry of Agriculture
NWDPC    -     National Watershed Development Policy Committee
PC       -     Project Coordinator
UP       -     Uttar Pradesh
WDC      -     Watershed Development Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                 The State of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP).
Amount:                      US$46.2 million, including capitalized front-end
fee of 0.25%.
Terms:                       Repayment over 20 years, including five years'
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Re-Lending Terms:            From the Government of India (GOI) to the State
as part of Central assistance for State
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI to bear the exchange
and interest risks.
Project Description:         The project would initiate a program to minimize
the degradation of Himalayan ecosystem caused by
depletion of forest cover, overgrazing and bad
land use, all of which have resulted in increasing
erosion and in exacerbating flooding of the
Gangetic Plains. The project activities would
include: establishment of about 87,000 ha of
fuelwood, timber and fodder plantation on
government and community land and about 81,000 ha
of fuelwood and fodder plantation on private land
and field boundaries; soil conservation measures;
livestock development (including a cattle exchange
program to promote stall-feeding of animals);
improvement of agricultural extension services;
horticultural development; minor irrigation; and
research and training. The project would also
help strengthen GOI's and GOUP's capacity to plan
and implement such schemes and invoke people's
participation at various levels. The main project
risks include inadequate public participation and
the difficulties in coordinating and managing a
multi-disciplinary program involving numerous
agencies. These risks would be minimized because
of increasing public awareness, provision of
intensive extension, implementation of programs to
increase the income of the local inhabitants, and
the organization proposed for coordination of
project implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Millions)
Item                                     Local           Foreign           Total
Forest Plantation                         23.2             0.2               23.4
Project Organization                       7.8             0.1                7.9
Horticulture Development                   1.8               -                1.8
Livestock Development                      6.2              -                 6.2
Soil Conservation                          3.7             0.1                3.8
Minor Irrigation                           1.9              -                 1.9
Agriculture                                0.8                                0.8
Research                                   0.2                                0.2
Sub-total                             45.6              0.4              46.0
Physical Contingencies                     1.0             0.1                1.1
Price Contingencies                       21.7             0.2              21.9
Total Project Cost                     68.3             0.7              69.0
Less Taxes and Duties                   3.1              -                3.1
Total Net Project Cost                 65.2             0.7              65.9
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan              -               0.1               0.1
Total Financing Requirements           65.2             0.8              66.0
(US$ Millions)
Financing Plan:                          Local           Foreign           Total
GOI/GOUP                               22.9                              22.9
Bank                                   45.4             0.8              46.2
Total                                  68.3             0.8              69.1
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91
Annual            0.2   1.0   2.2   4.1   7.3  13.0  12.3   6.1
Cumulative        0.2   1.2   3.4   7.5  14.8  27.8  40.1  46.2
Rate of Return:          About 23%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 4317-IN, dated May 10, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$46.2 million to help finance a watershed
management project in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The project would initiate
a major program to minimize the ecological degradation of the Himalayan ecosys-
tem caused by depletion of forests, overgrazing and bad land use. It would
increase the availability of fodder, fuelwood and forest products and carry out
agricultural development schemes to increase the income of local inhabitants.
The Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the loan to the
Government of Uttar Pradesh in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arran-
gements for financing development projects in the States. The exchange and
interest risks would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource Mobi-
lization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels.  As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Central Power Transmission Project (No.
P-3549-IN), dated May 2, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5..     Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitutJion. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India-s terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability.  These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2% at
1.6 percentage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though les-
sened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed export
markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was able,
however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the momen-
tum of the investment program through largely successful public sector resource
mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in support of this
effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic policies
mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon. Continued
improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace than in
the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India-s agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance. Neverthe-
less, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy. Railway
traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from 1981/82. The
lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational efficiency of the
railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like steel, iron ore,
coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in 1982/83), after
10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There were no major
shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal. Recent easing
of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily from better
utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improvement must



--4-
result from added capacity.  It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize sufficient
resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited.  India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will conitinue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of sup-
pliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has enabled
India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over relatively
high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted commercial



-5-
loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of about
US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The mediumrterm framework for advancing India's development objectives
Is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now In its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government°s share in plan invest-
ment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of develop-
ment, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been needed
to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, transport and
irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is
scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater efficiency
and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors clearly



--6-
can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been made.
As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic service
sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short te!rm, however, achieving; an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85.  The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India-s
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources.  Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further invest-
ment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an i[ncreased emphasis on commercial borrow-
ing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of
such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India with
the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assis-
tance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign



-7-
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overes-
timated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth rate
has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However, the
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices betwee 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultiral production, reflects such
developments.  There is also a role for direct 3ovetnment action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging



-8-
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 71 loans and 156 development
credits to India totalling US$4,783 million and US$11,447 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,332 million has been
repaid, and US$5,907 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1983.  Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1983
totalled US$1,008 million, representing an increase of about 17 percent over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$220.4
million, of which US$28.3 million has been repaid, US$56.2 million sold and
US$17.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118.6 million, US$111.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
Infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks whicli have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India-s adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.  Exploitation of oil



-9 -
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s.  However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry.  Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,571 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,717 million.
28.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion coT-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-1 0-
PART III - EROSION AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
Erosion and Flood Problems in India
29.     On average, floods affect an area of about 8 million ha of the
Gangetic plains annually, including some 3.5 million ha of cropped land.
The value of the lost crops alone is over US$250 million a year.  It is
estimated that an area of about 34 million ha is prone to flood damage, of
which 24 million ha (70%) fall within the Indo-Gangetic basin States of
Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and the
Union Territory of Delhi.
30.     National flood damage data have been collected since 1953.  The
statistics show the increasing severity of floods, with the greatest
damage recorded during the past five years, although the total annual
rainfall has remained substantially the same. This trend is attributed to
increasing ecological degradation, mainly in the Himalayan range 1/, which
is largely attributed to larger human and cattle populations, and which
makes each new flood more devastating than its predecessor.
31.     Deforestation, overgrazing, poor agricultural practices and badly
designed roads, all contribute to the severe erosion and general
ecological decline observed in many parts of the Himalayan range. Erosion
decreases the productive capacity of cultivable land in the hi:Lls and, at
the same time, increases river sedimentaition levels downstream,
contributing to floods and to early reservoir siltation. This reduces the
life of dams and diminishes the quantity of water available for irrigation
and hydro-power generation. Recent surveys of various major reservoirs
have shown that the actual sedimentation rates were two to five times the
rate assumed when the dams were designed.,
Government Strategy
32.     Since 1954, many measures to control floods have been recommended
by various committees, but until recently neither the Central nor State
Governments has given the matter the attention it deserved. Past works
were confined mostly to embankments and engineering structures in the
plains with limited preventive measures in the upper catchments of
selected rivers. Annual outlays for flood control works averaged less
1/  The Himalayan range includes:  the Shiwalik range, low foothills
adjacent to the Gangetic Plain, with altitudes up to 1,000 meters
above sea level (m.a.s.l.); the Hills, with altitudes to
2,500 m.a.s.l. in which agriculture is generally practiced; and the
Himalayan alpine region.



than US$90 million between 1974 and 1978, whereas annual damage to crops
and property averaged US$1,020 million during the same period.
33.     In August 1978, northern India was hit by the worst floods in
living memory. As a result, the Government of India (GOI) immediately
appointed a Working Group to formulate an action plan for flood control in
the Indo-Gangetic basin. It was envisaged that the plan should integrate
engineering works downstream with soil conservation, reforestation and
other watershed treatment measures upstream of the flood-prone rivers and
their tributaries. The Working Group identified, in 1978, an action plan
for 18 major catchments covering some 50 million ha in the Ganga basln.
The plan proposed two separate but coordinated programs for five years:
construction of downstream flood control engineering works costing some
US$1,230 million to protect about 5.5 million ha; and upstream watershed
treatment works costing some US$870 million to cover about 2.8 million ha.
The total cost for five years, including a flood forecasting/warning
system, was estimated at US$2,160 million. GOI has earmarked about
US$112 million for upper watershed treatment and about US$1,000 million
for downstream engineering works in the Sixth Plan (1980-85).
34.     The technical solutions to land use problems in the hills are
fairly well known, but experience In large-scale implementation of the
technical recommendations, particularly in involving local populations
in such efforts, is very limited. Reforestation, reduction in livestock
numbers and other rehabilitation measures undertaken in Sukhna catchment
(in Punjab) have already reduced the sediment loads in streams by half
and, when 100% vegetation cover Is achieved, siltation Is expected to be
reduced further. Similar encouraging results have been achieved in the
Bank-assisted Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project (Ln. 1897-IN)
in Punjab and the Federal Republic of Germany-asslsted Dhauladhar project
in Himachal Pradesh. On the other hand, conservation schemes started
during the Third Plan period (1961-66) In some 300 watersheds involving
some 30 river valleys have not achieved satisfactory results because they
lacked a well coordinated and integrated approach to planning and
implementation of such schemes.
35.     Resulting from the action plan prepared by the Working Group
(para. 33), and in view of the experience gained in various smaller
projects (para. 34), in June 1979 GOI selected areas for treatment in the
Upper Ganga catchment, from where a number of important rivers in the
State of Uttar Pradesh (UP) originate. GOI also declded that a
first-phase project would focus on measures to rehabilitate a number of



-1 2-
subwatersheds/microwatersheds 1/ in two major watersheds of UP. The
proposed project is based on this.
The Project Area
36.     The proposed project would be located in the State of Uttar
Pradesh (UP) in northern India. UP is bounded by the Himalayan range to
the North and the Vindhyan hills to the South, with the Gangetic Plain
covering the major portion of the State. The State gives rise to many
rivers which finally drain into the Ganges. The climate ranges from moist
tropical and sub-tropical in low valleys to temperate and alpine in the
mountains. Except for the valleys, the soil depth is generally shallow
and rocky outcrops are common, but the soils respond well to manure and
chemical fertilizers.
37.     The population of UP is 111 million (1981), including 4.1 million
in hill districts. About 93% of the State-s population is rural and
depends for its livelihood on small and fragmented land holdings; about
70% of holdings are less than one hectare. Paddy is the main crop, grown
in kharif (monsoon months), followed by wheat in rabi (winter months). In
rainfed areas, millet is predominant. Crop yields are generally low.
Most farmers rely on organic manures only and the quality of seed used is
poor.
38.     A wide range of subtropical and temperate fruits and vegetables is
grown in the project area. Pears, figs and peaches grow wild in compact
areas and in woodlands, and there is considerable scope for improving
their yields by grafting. Almost every household maintains livestock,
mainly for draught purposes and for production of manure. Cattle,
buffaloes, goats and sheep are common throughout the project area.  Milk
yield of cows is poor, but a few improved varieties of cows, which yield
substantially higher milk yields, have been introduced into the project
area.  Farmers are, however, reluctant to do away with unproductive and
aged cattle due to religious beliefs. Only cattle in milk are fully
stall-fed; others are allowed to wander freely by day. Buffaloes, on the
other hand, are stall-fed as they cannot graze on the hilly terrain.
1/  Watershed implies a drainage area containing a few thousand or a few
hundred thousand hectares from whilch water drains towards a single
channel. It is a social and economic unit for development and conser-
vation of water, soil, forests and related resources. A subwatershed
is one of the components of a watershed, usually within the catchment
of an independent tributary of the main drainage which forms a
watershed. A microwatershed in the smallest planning aind development
unit within a subwatershed, usually within the catchment of a minor
stream. In the project area, each watershed consists of one or more
subwatersheds and each subwatershed consists of 3 to 20 microwater-
sheds (each commanding 1,000 to 5,000 ha).



-13-
39.     Grazing occurs on privately-owned, village-owned and
Government-owned lands. These pastures are under heavy stress given
prevailing conditlons of heavy grazing, and there is a deficit of 15-25%
in the nutritional requirements for production and maintenance. Part of
the deficiency in grassland production Is made up by indlscriminate
lopping of fodder trees usually located around the edges of croplands and
along watercourses and in State forests.
Hill Development Organization
40.     In UP, the Hill Area Development Department is responsible for
coordination of all development works carried out by different line
departments operating in hill areas. As a consequence, all budgetary
allocations and staff appointments are coordinated and approved by the
Secretary, Hill Area Development.
41.     Agricultural research Is the responsibility of the State's Govind
Ballab Pant University of Agriculture and Technology. Research is carried
out at various research stations, but the present work has little
relevance to the problems of the area and there is little contact between
research workers, farmers and the staff of the Agriculture Department.
The University is now eligible for assistance under the IDA-supported
Natlonal Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN). Agricultural
extension is handled at the level of the Development Block through
multipurpose Village Level Workers who have only limited time for
providing agricultural advice to the farmers. Agricultural credit is
provided by cooperatives and commercial banks. Short-term credit is
available for purchase of agricultural inputs and medium-term loans for
bunding, minor irrigation and purchase of bullocks. Long-term loans are
available for horticultural development.
Bank Group Experience
42.     The Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project (Ln. 1897-IN of
September 1980) is the only previous project in which the Bank Group has
been involved in soil conservation and watershed management in the Indian
Himalayan region. Although much smaller in scope, this project has
contributed significantly to our knowledge of controlling grazing by
reducing the numbers of free-grazing cattle through a cattle exchange
program 1/ and introduction of stall-feeding. The afforestation and soil
conservation programs included in the Kandi Project are also progressing
in line with the appraisal estimates. The flood control, irrigation and
other engineering works included in the project are considerably behind
schedule mainly due to delays in finalizing appropriate designs.
1/ Exchange of local cattle for buffaloes.



-14-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.     The project was prepared by the Government of India (GOI) and the
Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) with assistance from Bank staff. It
was appraised in September/October 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. in April 1983 with an Indian delegation coordinated by Mr.
I.R. Madan of the Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4317-IN), dated May 10, 1983, is being circulated to
the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Projecl: Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Strategy
44.     The principal objective of the project Is to minimize the further
deterioration of the Himalayan ecosystem caused by depletion of the forest
cover, overgrazlng, bad land use and badly designed roads, all of which
have resulted in increasing soil erosion. Correction of these problems
requires the support and participationi of the local populatilon.
Therefore, the components selected for development under the proposed
project are so designed that the great majority of the population living
within the area selected for rehabilitation would perceive themselves as
direct beneficiaries of project activities. This is particularly
important in order to gain the acceptance and support of the inhabitants
who could face initial hardship as a result of land closure (see para. 47)
necessary for revegetation in the upper catchment areas. Some of the
project benefits would be immediate (like cattle exchange program,
para. 49) while others (like forest plantation, para. 47) would require
long gestation periods. Besides addressing the problems of erosion, and
in view of the low standard of living generally prevailing throughout the
Himalayan region, the project includes efforts to improve agricultural
productivity and enhance incomes and employment opportunities. To
increase the possibility for replication of project proposals, greater
emphasis is given to low-cost agricultural and silvicultural solutions
rather than to expensive engineering works for conserving soil and
reducing excess run-off from rainfall.
Project Features
45.     The proposed seven-year project would develop two watersheds 1/
(consisting of 9 subwatersheds and 83 microwatersheds) covering 312,O ha
in the western Himalayas in the State of Uttar Pradesh. Plans for the
development of one subwatershed have been prepared by the State Government
and reviewed by the Bank appraisal mission; they would be implemented from
the first project year. Development plans for the remaining eight
1/  For definitions of a 'watershed  and its divisions, see footnote on
page 12.



-15-
subwatersheds would be prepared and implemented throughout the course of
project life (see para. 55). As the start-up of development activitles In
subwatersheds would be phased over the first five years, those
subwatershed projects, which would be started during the fourth and fifth
project years would be completed by the State after this project period.
46.     The project would focus on development of watersheds ln the
Himalayan foothills and the Shiwalik range, where the most serious
denudation and soil erosion is taking place. The project activities would
include forest and pasture development, soil conservation measures,
livestock development, agricultural and horticultural development, minor
irrigation, and research and training. Besides, the project would create
and strengthen development institutions at the National, State and local
levels in order to plan and implement watershed development schemes.
47.     Forest and pasture development constitutes a key project component
designed to minimize the process of denudation on erosion-prone areas and
to meet the local requirement of fodder, fuelwood and timber. Prior to
preparation of detailed plans for development, a baseline survey would be
carried out to determine the areas to be closed for grazing and the type
of afforestation to be carried out. As a general rule, up to 50% of the
panchayat-l/ and government-owned land now open to unrestricted grazlng
would be closed over a five-year period. In deciding the treatment of the
closed areas, first priority would be given to satisfying local needs for
fodder and fuelwood. The main activities would include plantation of some
59,000 ha (for fuel and timber) and 27,800 ha for fodder on government-
and panchayat-owned land, and 81,000 ha of fuelwood and fodder tree
plantations on privately owned land and field boundaries.
48.     In the upper catchment areas of the project, soil conservation
measures would largely be confined to afforestation and restrictions on
grazing through land closure. Where gully formation is threatening
productive agricultural land, forest land, villages, small-towns,
buildings or roads, generally small anti-erosion structures would be
constructed out of readily available local materials. Construction of
improved soil conservation devices on agricultural land is constrained by
the absence of data on water run-off and soil loss. To generate necessary
data, the project would include a research component to assess:
(a) run-off and soil loss from cultivated terraces; (b) cost of
alternative measures to control erosion; (c) farmers' readiness to adapt
new tillage practices; and (d) benefits from land shaping. Assuming that
the research would be concluded by the end of the third year, a sum of
Rs 30 million (US$3.16 million) for land shaping of about 6,000 ha of
terraced land with a low-cost approach has been included in the project.
The land reshaping of terraces would be undertaken only after the outcome
1/ A 'panchayat' is a locally elected body representing the villagers
from a number of adjacent villages.



-16-
of the proposed research has been agreed with the Bank (Section 2.08 of
the Project Agreement).
49.     Progressive closure of grazing areas would have the two-fold
effect on livestock owners of making it necessary for them to pay greater
attention to stall-feeding of animals and to dispose of old and
unproductive animals. To encourage stall-feeding, to help in overall
reduction in stock numbers, and to demonstrate the economic benefits of
keeping only productive animals, the project would provide for a limited
cattle exchange program -- two cattle for one improved buffalo--involving
some 10,000 buffaloes. Because of religious belief cattle are not
slaughtered. The cattle exchanged would, therefore, be sent to an
existing cattle sanctuary. The Government of UP would prepare detailed
rules for the cattle exchange programs, and only buffaloes would be used
in cattle exchange (Section 2.09 of thie Project Agreement). Other
livestock development activities would include Improvement to some 40
existing dispensaries, provision for natural breeding of buffaloes, and
extension support to assist farmers in feeding and management: of
productive animals.
50.     The agricultural development component of the project: would
include improvements to the extension iservices and introduction of a crop
seed improvement program. The project area is not presently covered by an
effective agricultural extension service capable of assisting farmers to
adopt better farming practices. The project would provide such services
through provision of motivators, equipment, operating expenses and
training facilities. It would create a system of regular in-service
training and fixed schedules of visits by the extension workers to
farmers' fields. A seed improvement program would provide for seed
exchange to overcome the problems presently constraining the wider use of
improved varieties.
51.     Horticultural development programs would include:  (a) improvement
of wild fruit groves; (b) development of private and community orchards;
and (c) an increase in the number of nurseries to supply fruit tree
seedlings to the project area. There are substantial numbers of fruit
trees (mainly pears) growing wild in areas often located near villages,
which would be improved by top working" through grafting by improved
varieties. About 3,900 ha of compact wild groves would be treated, and
the panchayats would collect and market: the produce from such orchards in
accordance with prevailing practice. About 1,500 ha of privately-owned
land, marginal or not suitable for cereal crops, would be converted into
fruit orchards. The project would also provide for development of some
ten additional nurseries throughout the project area to supply material
for top working of trees and to provide farmers with fruit tree seedlings.
52.     The area presently under irrigation would be increased by more
effective utilization of perennial flows of water from small streams.
This would be accomplished by lining ofr existing irrigation channels
(about 125 small channels, some 250 km) and by construction of small water
storage tanks (about 650) where possible. Water management for equitable



-17-
and timely distribution of water and maintenance of irrigation works would
be the responsibility of water user groups. The project staff would
assist in forming these groups and in training farmers in simple
maintenance techniques and effective water utilization.
53.     Research.  A key issue in a pilot scale project of this type is
that of clearly identifying which particular components of a watershed
improvement program (e.g., soil conservation, restoration of vegetative
cover in the hills, construction of check dams, careful road alignment and
appropriate culvert design or reduction in livestock numbers and closure
of certain areas to cultivation or grazing) have the most effective impact
at the lowest possible cost. Another issue is to determine the extent to
which improved upland catchment area land use could make a significant
impact on downstream flooding and sedimentation when compared with the
alternative of dam construction and improved irrigation and drainage in
the foothills and plains. These issues are central to all watershed
rehabilitation works in the Himalayas. The project would include
provision for research and on-going evaluation through technical and
economic studies which would examine the evidence already collected on
this issue, not only from the project area, but also from other
experimental catchment improvement programs in the Himalayas and overseas.
Funds would be provided for incremental research staff, a small
laboratory, staff quarters, equipment, transport and operational costs to
carry out the program. Research work would be carried out in cooperation
with research institutions satisfactory to the Bank. The State would
prepare and furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 1983, an outline and
work plan for project research activities (Section 2.10 of the Project
Agreement).
54.     The project would provide funds for training of farmers and
project staff. Farmer training would cover the benefits of reforestation,
soil conservation, fodder production and improved animal husbandry
practices. Staff training would include in-service training of Forest
Rangers, Foresters, and Forest Guards, and provision of special courses
for Forest Officers, Rangers, and soil conservation staff on soil and
water conservation practices to be adopted in project areas. These
special courses would be held at the Central Soil Conservation Institute,
Dehra Dun, and in-service training would be arranged in the project area.
In addition, regular training of the agricultural extension workers would
be provided by Subject Matter Specialists and research staff.
Preparation and Approval of Subwatershed Plans
55.     Prior to project appraisal, one detailed subwatershed plan was
prepared. This was found satisfactory. Subwatersheds to be taken up
progressively over the project period would be identified and prepared by
GOUP and would be submitted to the National Watershed Development Policy
Committee (NWDPC, para. 56) for appraisal and approval. Based on this,
NWDPC would release funds to the State Government for implementation.
Comprehensive technical, economic and financial criteria have been
established for preparation, appraisal and implementation of the remaining



-18-
subwatershed plans which would form the basis of future program under the
project. Preparation, appraisal and imlplementation of subwatershed
projects would be carried out in accordance with criteria agreed upon
between GOI and the Bank (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement and
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement). All subwatershed projects
appraised prior to the mid-term review of the project (para. 64) would be
sent to the Bank for review and approvaLl prior to sanction and release of
any funds (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). Thereafter copies of
appraisal reports would be retained by NWDPC for review by the Bank in the
course of project supervision.
Project Organization and Coordination 1/
56.     Overall responsibility for coordination and execution of the
project would be with the Ministry of Agriculture, GOI. For the purpose
of the project, a National Watershed Development Policy Committee (NWDPC)
has been created. The committee is chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture and comprises the Agricultural Commissioner (GOI), Animal
Husbandry Commissioner (GOI), Inspector General of Forests (GOI), a
representative of the Ministry of Finance (GOI), Chief of the Agriculture
Division of the Planning Commission (GOI), concerned Secretaries from the
participating State and the Director of the Soil and Water Conservation
Institution. A Watershed Development Commissioner of Joint Secretary rank
would act as the member-secretary of the Committee. The Watershed
Development Commissioner would be assisted by a Watershed Development
Council (WDC) in the Ministry of AgricuLture.  By September 30, 1983, GOI
would appoint a Watershed Development Commissioner and create adequate
staff positions in the Council (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
NWDPC would have the powers to approve or reject subwatershed projects and
would have overall supervisory responsibility for implementation of the
Project. This supervisory function would be carried out by WDC on a day
to day basis.
57.     The Watershed Development Council (WDC) would comprise specialists
in Forestry, Soil Conservation, Agriculture, Economics and Sociology, and
include research staff to coordinate the increased needs for applied and
1/  GOI has recently created a National Land Board and a National Land
Resources Conservation and Development Commission to oversee national
policy for management, conservation and development of land resources.
The Board is headed by the Union Minister of Agriculture and is
responsible for policy decisions, while the Commission is headed by
a Member (Agriculture) of the Planning Commission and is responsible
to formulate proposals for such policy decisions. The
member-secretary of both of these agencies is the same Watershed
Development Commissioner who would also act as the member-secretary of
NWDPC. This should ensure coordination between all GOI agencies
involved.



-19-
adaptive research. The regular staff would be supplemented by hiring of
local consultants for appraisal and supervision of subprojects and for
training of staff. WDC would be provided with administrative support
staff and a monitoring unit. WDC would have the following functions:
(a) Appraisal of the technical and economic feasibillty of
subwatershed plans to be prepared by GOUP and submisslon of
these plans for approval of NWDPC;
(b) Release of funds to GOUP for project implementatlon;
(c) Assisting with implementation and monitoring of subwatershed
projects by periodic progress reviews and by organizing
training programs for State staff; and
(d) Arranging for the interim evaluations of project actions so
as to enable appropriate feedback to project management at
all levels.
The WDC would make on-site supervislon visits at least twice a year to
each subwatershed project and would communicate the results to the Bank.
58.     In UP, a State-level Steering Committee would be established and
chaired by the Chief Secretary or delegated by him to the Secretary, Hill
Area Development Department. The Committee would consist of the Secretary
of Finance and heads of other relevant Departments, Deputy Commissloners
from concerned districts and the Vice Chancellor of the agricultural
university. It would be responsible for formal approval of subwatershed
projects before presentation to GOI, for ensuring a coordinated approach
to project implementation and adequate staff deployment, for reviewing
progress of implementation,; and for resolving problems of execution. A
Project Coordinator, who has recently been appointed, working under the
Hill Area Development Department, would be responsible for coordinating
and implementing all project actions. He would also act as
Member/Secretary of the Committee.
59.     The Project Coordinator would be assisted by a State Watershed
Management Cell, which would include specialists in forestry, soil
conservation, agriculture, livestock development, forest economics, and
sociology as well as relevant support staff. The Cell would have the
following responsibilitles:
(a) Preparation of subwatershed/microwatershed development
proposals with assistance from field staff;
(b) Release of funds for project implementation;
(c) Assisting and monitoring project implementation;
(d) Assesslng training requirements for staff locally and at
national institutions; and
(e) Coordinating research activities.



-20--
Project Implementation
60.     A new Watershed Development Department has been formed under the
Secretary, Hill Area Development Department. The Secretary, Hill Area
Development Is responsible for coordination of development activities of
all Departments working in the Hill districts. Since each district could
include a number of subwatershed areas, inter-departmental coordination at
the district level would be ensured through a District Coordination
Committee chaired by the District Commissioner and consisting of district
heads of concerned departments and elected representatives of the District
Panchayat.  The Committee would coordinate project implementation with
other ongoing development activities in the district.
61.     Each subwatershed (10,000 to 60,000 ha) consists of 3 to
20 microwatersheds. A Subwatershed M4anagement Unit would be set up in
each subwatershed and would comprise a Project Manager with technical
staff from concerned departments, assisted by clerical and accounting
staff. This Unit would be responsible for project implementation,
including preparation of annual plans of action and detailed work plans,
execution of these plans and assisting in preparation of new projects for
further subwatershed development.  To ensure the involvement of local
people in planning and implementatlon of project activities, a Management
Committee would be set up in each mic:rowatershed, chaired by the
subwatershed Project Manager and consisting of local people, government
officials and project staff. The Committee would agree on the annual plan
of action and detailed work plan for each microwatershed, and would help
project staff obtain the participation of the local population in project
activities, especially closure of common grazlng areas, establishment of
plantations through communal effort, support for farm forestry programs,
and execution of minor irrigation schemes.
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.     An essential feature of the project would be the monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and its impact. The project's monitoring
system would generate data with which to measure output, effects and
impact of project actions, thus providing guidance to those responsible
for project implementation and permitting In-depth studies to permit a
realistic assessment of longer-term effects brought about by the project.
63.     The project would be monitored at three levels -- at the
subwatershed, at the State, and at the GOI levels. At the subwatershed
level, the Subwatershed Management Unit would prepare a baseline study
and collect data on a continuous basis on various project inputs, project
activities, and physical and financial achievements. At the State level,
the State Watershed Management Cell would carry out a comparative
examination of watershed performance within the State, identify any
weaknesses and recommend necessary changes. At the GOI-level, the
Watershed Development Council would perform functions similar to those
performed at the State-level and, in addition, would be responsible for



-21-
coordinating the monitoring reports from the State and forwarding them to
the Bank at regular intervals.
64.     Two categories of project evaluation would be undertaken during
the project period -- ongoing evaluation and a mid-term review. Ongoing
evaluation would include: technical evaluation to examine success or
failure of the technical package applied in project implementation;
behavioral evaluation to examine people's response to and perceptions of
project input delivery systems and institutions; and special studies to
answer questions raised by the technical and behavioral evaluations and
on subjects directly related to project design and performance. By
September 30, 1983, GOI would identify competent institutions satisfactory
to the Bank to carry out the the evaluations and special studies
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). Given the innovative nature of the
project, GOI would carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of
the project within the first quarter after the completion of the project-s
third year (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). The exercise would
re-assess the project concepts, design, allocation of funds, staffing
patterns and the individual project components, and it could result in
modifications to the project.
Marketing of Produce
65.     Most of the incremental agricultural production resulting from the
project would be consumed by the local population for subsistence. A
fuelwood balance study in one subwatershed where detailed planning is
completed shows that the fuelwood produced will satisfy local demand.
Marginal amounts available for sale to neighboring areas would be sold
through local traders. Increased milk production would be consumed in the
project area. The increased horticultural production would be marketed
through existing fruit marketing organizations.
Project Cost and Financing
66.     Total project costs are estimated at US$69.1 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties of US$3.1 million and foreign exchange costs of
US$0.8 million. The major cost components are: forest and fodder
development (US$23.4 million), livestock development (US$6.2 million),
soil conservation (US$3.8 million), minor irrigation (US$1.9 million),
agriculture development (US$0.8 million), horticulture (US$1.8 million),
project organization (US$7.9 million), and research (US$0.2 million).
Physical contingencies (US$1.1 million) have been applied at 10% of costs
of soil conservation, minor irrigation and project administration. Price
contingencies (US$21.9 million) have been calculated based on assumptions
of future local and foreign price movements (1983: 8.5%; 1984: 8%;
1985: 7.5%; 1986: 7% and 1987-89: 6%).
67.     The proposed loan of US$46.2 million would finance about 707 of
total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The balance would be borne
by the Government of India and the State Government. In order to ensure



-22-
an early start of the project activities, retroactive financing of up to
US$300,000 is proposed to cover expenditures incurred after April 1, 1983.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.     Direct plantation works (US$25.2 million), including nursery
expenditure, pre-planting preparation, tree establishment, top working of
fruit trees and orchard development, would be scattered over a wide area
and would be carried out over different periods of time. Most of these
activities, including land preparation, planting and maintenance of
village woodlots and nurseries, would be done by the implementing
departments with participation from village panchayats. Similarly, soil
conservation (US$3.8 million) and minor irrigation (US$1.9 million) works,
which would also be scattered and phased over the seven-year project
period, would be carried out by force account of implementing agencies and
with local participation. Purchase of buffaloes (US$5.5 million) for the
cattle exchange program would be carried out by the Animal Husbandry
Department following State Government procedures which are satisfactory.
Contracts for civil works (US$1.9 mil:lion) would be small and widely
dispersed in time and place and, therefore, would not be suitable for
international bidding and would be let: following local bidding procedures,
advertised locally, or by force account and in accordance with established
GOUP procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank. Vehicles and equipment
(US$0.6 million) would be purchased over the first few project years; as
adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount
importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles and
equipment already in use by government departments. Thus, procurement
would be by local competitive bidding under existing government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. The balance of the project costs
(US$30.2 million) would be staff salaries, training and operating costs
(US$7.1 million) and contingencies (US$23.0 million) and front-end fee
(US$0.1 million).
69.     Disbursement of the proceeds of the credit would be as follows:
100% of ex-factory and 75% of other local expenditures for vehicles and
equipment; 100% of expenditures for research, and evaluation; 80% of
expenditures for forest and horticulture planting; 70% of expenditures for
civil works, soil conservation, cattle exchange, minor irrigation, and
incremental operating costs for the State; and 30% of expenditures for the
Central incremental staff and operating; costs. Disbursements; for all
force account work, salaries, local training, civil works expenditures
costing Rs 300,000 or less and other procurement involving expenditures
costing Rs 150,000 or less each for vehicles and equipment would be made
against statements of expenditure. These certificates of expenditure
would be audited annually and the audit report would be submitted to the
Bank. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be retained
by the State governments for inspection by Bank staff in the course of
review missions. All other disbursement claims would be fully documented.
70.     Cost Recovery.  In UP, marginal farmers, small farmers, farmers
belonging to Scheduled Castes and Tribes and others identified under the



-23-
Integrated Rural Development Program receive subsidies, ranging from
33-50%, for different development activities. The project would not
introduce any new subsidy except for the provision of buffaloes in
exchange for unproductive cows. This component is seen as playing an
essential part in the process of changing the pattern of livestock
husbandry and would not be possible without the subsidy. Given that hill
areas are generally food-deficient, it has been State policy to fully
subsidize minor irrigation development. As such, no cost recovery is
proposed.  Maintenance of irrigation works would, however, be done by
beneficiaries. Horticulture loans are provided by credit institutions and
as government Taccavi loan (provided by the State Government from
budgetary sources) and would be recovered according to existing
procedures. Loans for soil conservation (land levelling) are also
provided by government budgetary sources and would also be recovered under
existing procedures of the State.
Project Benefits and Risks
71.     The major benefit of the project would be to spearhead a program
designed to minimize deterioration of the Himalayan ecosystem caused by
depletion of forest cover, overgrazing and bad land use, all of which
result in continued erosion and reduction of productive capacity of the
sub-Himalayan and Shiwalik areas and in exacerbated flooding in the
Gangetic plains. The project would strengthen the planning and
implementation capacity of the Central, State and local agencies and, at
the same time, it would directly increase the production of fuelwood,
ti.mber, fodder, fruit, milk and other agricultural products valued at
about US$1.4 billion over the 20-year life of the project. During the
same period the project would generate some 46 million man-days of
employment. The overall economic rate of return of the project is
estimated at 23%.
72.     Because of its pilot nature, the project involves two major risks.
First, there is a risk of inadequate participation by the local population
which is vital for a successful program including land closure,
stall-feeding of livestock, cattle exchange and forest plantation. This
risk is minimized because of increasing awareness on the part of the local
population of the deteriorating situation in which they live, the project
extension work, the mechanism built in to involve people in planning and
execution of project activities, and the implementation of a number of
other activities directed towards increasing the income of the local
inhabitants. Secondly, there is a risk of inadequate coordination among
line agencies responsible for project planning and implementation.
However, the safeguards incorporated in the project (para. 56) are
expected to minimize this risk as well.



-24-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the State of Uttar Pradesh, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
75.     Preparation by the State of Uttar Pradesh of detailed rules
satisfactory to the Bank governing the cattle exchange program would be a
condition of disbursement for expenditures under Part A(3) of the Project
(Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
76.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - REC OMMENDATION
77.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
May 11, 1983



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  1  of  5
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  70.0       110.0     240.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    111.2        152.5     194.4             448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  673207.0
*                         URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7       22.3              17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3       166.6     200.6             158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       307.8    362.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9        42.7      40.2              36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.5        54.2      56.8              59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6         3.1       3.0               3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1                2.0                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3               3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.7         40.0      35.6              29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8         16.7      13.6              11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.7       2.4               2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0      22.6              19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      99.0             108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6        90.4      88.8/c            97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAIMS PER DAY)         53.6        49.7      48.4/c            56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.2        14.8      13.1/c            20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     26.2        20.7      17.4              10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.2         48.1      51.8              57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          165.0       139.0     123.4              89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0              32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              70.7                     51.9
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0              22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0              18.1                     37.7
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              72.7                     65.7
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4      4889.0   3630.6             3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1            4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2178.7      1612.9   1311.0/e           1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                               ..          ..     362.3/;e          301.3                    651.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                              2.6         2.8        ..
RURAL                              2.6         2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA S PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         73.0      78.0/c              97.4                     96.2
MALE                  80.0         90.0       92.0/i            101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                40.0         56.0      63.0/Z              87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         26.0      27.0/c              53.0                     37.6
MALE                  30.0         36.0       36.0/';            63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                10.0         15.0       17.0/c             41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0        0.7/S              1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMaRY                             46.1         41.5      51.8/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                           16.0         20.9        ..               20.2                      25.0
ADLILT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4      36.0                52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSZNGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.6          1.1       1.3/c               1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9         21.5      33.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0          0.0       1.0                3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUsAND POPULATION                   10.6         16.0      19.8                16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1            4.1       3.7                 3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    30.7         32.5      31.8               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0      69.3                70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       13.2               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0      39.2                40.0                     38.5
MALE                                  57.0         52.4      51.8                51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                                27.3         26.9      25.9                23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1        1.1                1.0                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7           26,3!   22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48-9/j    49.-4/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            6.7Th     7.0/,.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.2Th    16.2,'.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     132.0              133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     114.0              111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  ..                    178.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                ..                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ,,           ,,      40.3               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..       50.7               51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTE S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of courntries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /a 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
NHtes   Although the data are drawn.te n  sources generally judged the Oait othnrtttne and reliable,  t should also bh  noted thtt they may not bh  inter-
nationally .o.aposble because of the lack no stoederdload defitlitttn  and contopts uted by diff-renr coounties It -olloctltg the data.  The doteoc. none-
theless. oss. ol nt descr-ib  orders of   gotode, itdicate treads, and ch-ra tteri  certain   j-r differencem  betw           - t
The      ....enc  ...ap. are  .1. th. aecunr    Iro f cbsaj-ac  c--ny and (2) a cutrty so-cp oi'hld aouhsI higherae  tg lnne  h   the   . catrygry
ofthe sfhj eon  Hnny(                 g honos g    tf thporte-t` g-oop abets 'Middle Icme North Afl ea and Middl   at  icho h                     en      g
stcio-r -ltorat        1ftnttle).  Iu rho reference group dana the aneroges ore poP.uI.ion A'ilghted froihnatic  -ean  fot each indicotor and thoon nody when
majority ot tht coonirtes Incagnoup baa data for than IndIcator. Since ltaencoyrgt nof cooncrtra etong the Indicacora dependson ut he avalability of daco
and Is not untorm. c       iocgon watt he e9secseed in rel ting avecaets of  one indicator to another.  Tfse anerages Ore only oseful On n=poclng  the rolue a
ate indicator atoa tle among the c-ontry end reference roup-.
000th (thoo..and aske.)                                                                       Popolalo  Pee  ou1plia1 Sod-toa.uhcadcrl-rystIn (tonal.,
TItal - Total sutface areanoettu.    g land area and inland eaters; 1979 data,                        _4uran   prura)d dIldod by  ther re t t   tnr      h o  hopital beda
Agricultural - fanlE te at agretulotual area osed ceporartily or permanently                  -voiloble In publih and pri-ate fener-l and  pec laliled bo,pital andre-
foe crps., p-stures,  -krn and kitchen gardens or to lit  fallov  1979 dora.                habiltation cennee        - pospitala are  scahlishenct permtaencly -tafftd
by an least one phytlcin.   stalllirhen-  pn-ridog principally cstn-
GNP  PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP pen capito enstatts an correct sahket prices.  cal-                 dial care are cno  Incloded   tural hbtpina. hoyner, In lode health
coIarad by tae connension mchod no  ra-d took Atlas (19789-0 bhsis); l9O                     and nedloal centern non peestuetly staffed by a physician (hut by a
1970, and 1980 data.                                                                         taddial ean  taten   nurse, aIdift   etc .) ihac  offer in-patient occeaso-
dltIon and provide a li=lted range uf edlcal ftillires.  For staiti-
ENERGI  CONSUMPTION PB CAPITA - Annual coonetrlon of -cea ieclal energy (coal                  rin1 purposes urban  -ospitals cnlude aDOD  pclnchpoI/grnnrah hasp,nala
and lignite, peIroleas  naturl got and hydro-, cuIrlrr and geurhersal elec-                   and rural hospitelt  Itoal on rural hospitals and medihal and  atenitly
trinity) in kilograma of coal equivalenc per capita; 1960  1570  and 1979                     centet-  Spec-alleed hosptalf are Included only ondee nonal
data.                                                                                       Adaltolons per HospItal ned - local nuobor ot admiasions toor discharges
f  rom hositals dinided by thd  unbor of beds.
POPULATION ARD YiTAL STATISTICS
Torah Poenlatiar, Mid.-Iear (thousands.) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 19801            HOUSING
da.                                                                                      boAge,,  tIeofMnehId ~(peenotperhI oeld) - t.cd, nebhan  and enrol-
erban Papoloni   (percent  f coral) - Rtotto of orb-on to cotal popolain-  ;                 A hoosahold cfntloinoof a any or Indidlda r aho share lining quarters
differnt defInitions or or ban aer sacy affeco comparabil iy of detc                        and thelr solo mealt   A boaed-r ur lodgrt my or sy not bn  iInlrded In
onngctoucrebaa; 1960, 1970  and 1980 dana                                                   the nouehold for sta lnitcal purposes
PoPulat.  t3it       ..Penentarsoutoa  nu.e.                                                                 fp.   unbprcon ttl, orbon, aol rura  -an--gonow
Foylantion in yea 72000 - Corren popolanlc  pruj ectlont are based on 1980                  bee of p     ern  p       Ios  In lll  r  an  end enro  .ccopi ed c_n_nrtinal
tonal popoDanlon by ago annd     e   thiheor   rtolty and frility rnem.                  dvellingo,  repectively - velllnauotnhodenon-portononcstructuresand
Projerttnn parmanseers for mantalacy Inaes conprute of three leYels autos-               uociupled paris.
IS lofg e expectancy a  bir th Itneresinf wit  councry' s per cap-tt  Incoe            Accussto ft ectri5ciry (percent of dvellings) - to"Il  urban  and roral -
lI.e.1, end rfesle life epec-ancy stabili-agoa  77.1 years   lbs para-                   conveontonal doellinor aib electincty in livntg quarreen to percentage
mtacer for f-rttnsty rate alto hane three (cools as-nuing dec,lne In                      of total. uran  and curao  duellog  repec-tively.
fertilty according to i.nc. 1-v and pant family planning perfor=.nre.
b ch country  s thena-s igned one of theta clot coabtiactcna of  ortalty             gDUCATIOcN
and fertility treds for Projection poepo-e.                                            Adj!cuod  ReclaI hat to
S_ inon ry popo..t.or - In a scan lnory ppol.ationc here Is no groomh since                 Primary  nboch1 - conal, mlt and fe=leo - Gr-s   total, sle and fesale
thebirthrate tetulntchedeathrace, andalannheageatrncturere-                                 enrollbennofollagesatchreplmaylevelea  percencages of rhspe.C.ne
mit  constant.  This Ls ac-hhid only a,t.r fertiiity races decinie to                       pri=ry  chn1l-ale popolarctis  voemally  Includes chiltren aged 6-11
she replaceentc lene  of uno teel reproduction race, nhen eoch  -enerachon                 yers hat adjosnrd for  fifrrnt lengih. of prniry edocatio; ton
of mo=nr rep laces itselft exactly .The statlotry population site oar                       countretsoh unirrsal tdocationn enrtltn.  may exceed 100 percent
ot,tmotd 00 tho basin of the ptenjeced characteriscics of she popularion                    snne som  pupnla ore benov on above  th  olficial uchotl st.
intheyear2000ndtheratn  of declnt of fIet_f            y rarero replace-                 5econdary ach l -   tal, ple andfnals-  Co=puted eaho:e;tscondtry
mann level.                                                                                 educationerequlreu at leost four pears oi approned pnigurfcnntrocntio;
leer scatainry populanion is ceach ed - Tha ye-ar oh-  tantaloary popolatlor                  prnvides general,  oral local, or tearher leolnifg insuanctitns for pupils
isie will bh  reached.                                                                     o-oahy of 12 to I7 yeaes of ago  correspondence-course  are ge-nerlly
Population tonally                                                                              excluded.
Par .,n ks. - Mtd-y-a  .popotact- per oq-,e kilomac-  (101 h-trarru  of                  Ponliut.t Ic lcc(ecn  of1-       1 urco-dory) - locaional1.. intoIrn on
nonte  area; 1961, 1970 and 1979 dana.i- Vo                                                          hbrilcL. ids.rtil o   other Pocrat. n     ibch oparace independ-
Perrvsqh oagriculturalland-Co=putedasabove foragriculuralland                               entlydor  s -departn=ntsf scondary Instiutions
Only; 1960  1970 and 1979 daa.                                                          Puyil-tenherrotit  -nr riery,  and-secondary-t    -csdents enrolled It
PoPulation Age Piruccore (perce-r, - Children (0-14 years.  , nor-kin-age (I1-                prti=y and secondary lec-ls dinaded by nuaber-  of teachers in the
64 yearu. . nd retird (65 yraoandover) an percentane  of =id-year ppop-                     correspondinglevels-
tacton; 1960, 1970, and 1980 daca.                                                        Aduli lieracy enti  (perc-nc) - Lite-ac  ndclnu (able to road and ertie)
PeoOpution GOroth Rtoe (peerent) -coca- - Annotl grnnth caces of total aid-                   as-a peeentage of to-l aduln popolacion aged 11 ypar snd over.
pear popolacion for  950-bd, i961-,. and 1970-g.
Proplation Gronth  tone (percent) -urb- -Apnoal groath races of ueban popu-              CONSUfMPTION
laftono  toe 1950-60t  1960-70, ad 1970-fl.                                              Pasoc'grr Cuns (per cluond horulanu  -Passnger cart cosprtan oror
Cr de Birch  dtoc   (per thousand) - Annoal line birihs pen rhoosand of oid-year              corn  atinlg lets chon tight persons;  -clude- aubolatr-u, hearses and
pcpulattcn; 1980  1970, cd 1980 dana.                                                      vmi)rary vehlro
Crude Death rare (per th-ounsd) - Annual dea-th  per thouoand  of oid-year                  8tdio neceivers fyerilnosand pooulation) - All typos of erreni-ra for ratdo
Pupolacion; 1960, 1970, and 19ff doca                                                       broadca ut   general ublic per Iho,-and of populatiot; nonlInes on-
Irons tycodoinon kato   -     .Average number cI daugh-trs avon-   aill bear in             Iicenned receiverr   in cootr has 0n0  -n years ohe  registrarion of rodtp
heyr     e I l reproduccic peeiod if sh  ..pernceu  prese n 'l-l ecilcfr-                   sec  vas mecffct  dasa forc ecent yIear =y nct b coY  prable sice
tility rae; usually five-yeae aoeeages ending In 1980, 1970, and l98O                       most co- etrien  abolished licenucI.
Fantly Planitrg-dcornpt-., canno  (tbn...ardu) - AnnualI _on_ of accptors                   TI o-ee-  (pee thousand nccolot-cc  - Trenocer  foe hroadca-sto
of bieth-tontrol dehi    ondenrnp-   f  -ain-a fA sily pn         Iig prcgrLO.              genec..   pobLic Err tho oand pIpop  Ln;ti   VecudoI'     fon btond   tlct
olly Plohninsn-  Dsers (percent ofarir dsvven) - Perne.n.ge .iarrited                         inconnores adin y-r  vh..eneregtratiovnillt oT          ets
voeno of chtld-bearing ape (15-44 pears) nvhoa ushirti-nooutil  decicosnto                hevspaper Itriultlion (pee thousand poculetion) - Shows the avertSe car-
011  _acyitd vcen lo tae age Sroop.                                                        calaton of "dlly general tnterestrnrvpapee', del ted asepeeindlcel
pobliranson d-c-id primarily to recoding gSvco  cet    t In cnsd-rd
Ff0D AND NUTRITIOt                                                                             tn bh  "daIly" if it appears oti-nt Ion  i         Iena_e,ev
Inide  of rood Prodantior p_e Capita (1969-71D100) - Iden oi ptr copita annual            CInema cAnno  Atnendanct per Cpita per -Ye-  - aed on the  Iulec of
production of al1 food -omsditi-n  Productioc eonludes teed and feed and                    ikabeto sold during the y-ea, incloding adei_i_n  to drive-incine=sn
is on calendar year baosis  lCeotdclto cover primary gooda (age gugarcare                  and cd io oit.
Instead of . unar) which are edible and cocn         ocetenin  (e.g  coffee and
tea ore excluded).  -agegare production of each nountry Is bhaed on                    LABOR PORCE
natLionl  -ceroge yedodcer peice   eightcs; 1961-65. 1970, sod 1980 dana.                Total Labor Fcrc- (thoonands) - .c.n.o.cclly accive p.....  iIncluding
P-e capita sopply of calories (percect of aeegnrenrnca( - Conputed from                      armd forces and  cenepicyrd lot  xcltuding hounr-i-en, otodencs, etc
energysequlralent of non fond sopplle-is avlahle In country per napica                     cocerinf poyabato  c  Ill aget.  Dlet    In        v crtuo  countries ore
per day.  Available s-pp1li-  -oapeis- dn-estic prodoctlon, Ivpoeto lesa                    nor ccswatohle; 1980, 1970 and 1680 dana
expoccs, and changes in  tcrk, Nnet supplies enlude animal feed.  seeds,                   Fele (percent) - Fenal  labcr force as perenctage of total lanbc  fcrce
qutvtiti_s cued on focd proceosing, and losnes ir dtmlbalfo.  Requie-                      Agriculture (pe-c-c) - Ltbor force in farnoi ....   crsp  hucting ard
manes v=fe oscimaced by PAO bated on phyinlcgi-cal needs for ncr=l atti-                     fishiIg at p_rnentage of totl labor force; 19dO  1970 aod 19O dana.
vity ard h-alth ceo_idering enrirotetal noaperarore, bdy uiict, age                        Industry (I,ecersft - Labor foene in =intog  connlrunt to.mnufaccosinc
aoduse  discrubtiton of popnlanin.  and allowing 10 porciet for vaure at                    and otectrlnciy, vacrr and gas on perrentae of coral labor fcor-,
houseold level; 1961-6, 1971  and 1977 dana.                                                  1980  1970 and 1980 doa.
Per capira supply  f protn  (grat  p   dy) - Protein  nc-ont  of per -api-a                par            Racipation Race (percent) - tot.1, o1e, and fnale - Pratclipation  c
net wpply of fond per day.  Nen spply of food is defited Os aboe.  Rs-                     activity raes        - ore computed as total,  ale, ad female cobor force a
_tireenta Cot oil counteI I   established by USDA provde foe ni.n-s                         percentages of tnol,  solo and fe-ale popolation qf all gag   re_perninely;
oiloearcrs of 60 graa of total proteir pee day and 20 fram  of aniwal and                   1960, 1970, and 1980 data,  chant  -r0 noed on ILO's p-ntitpranon eaten
pclse protein  of vhich 10 gsan  thould be an--f peoteln.  Tbesr snood-                     reflecting age--ex structure of the population, and ing tim  frond.  A
ards aeloerth   thscSte of75gent ofdotal protnand23grasnoi                                 fev rlwan_s aee ircnnaclonsources
animal proteln an an average foe tht noeld, propoted by FAO in tbs Third                 b Nonoic Dependen-y Ratic - Rttio of populotion order 15 anp Al ard over
WorId Food S-r-ey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 datat.  I he total lalbe force
Per capita pro ten sopply feom ianl and puone - Prcntic supply of food de-
rtced line aoimaln end pulset Ic grcor  per day, 1961-65, 1970 ocd 1977 d,to.          IINOMI lISTRlIETION
Child (ones 1-4)  ebtoRe  pen shoosand)- Annual denfhh  pee rhoono.d In                     Percennage of Pri--no 1-co   (boch in -h and k-d) - Reeited byrichar
ago g.oup 1-4 peers, no cbildrec in chit  age gronp, for  tsr develop ng coon-              I rercenr, richnho  01 peccenr, pocrenr 20 per-ert, and p-cresn 40 percent
tries data dericed from life tablet; 1960, 1970 -nd 1980 dat_                               of househoids.
HfALTH                                                                                      POVBTa  TRGET GROUPS
Life  opecaccyr . I ibth (year)- A- eragenu beer of er   f life re=ining                    The tolclcginneti=mis are             .ery  approtitte ..ur ofe f p-ety leels,
on birth; 1960, 1970 and 19t  data.                                                         nd sh-old be irerpreted vih -cnider-blrcaution
InfatH taliiy  to  (pe  th,,-nd) - Al co1 daths of "Lftnts order one ypor                  E.t-lred Abdplcte Poomy I,to   Lecel (US$ pee napita) - -rbac and cocal -
of age Pee thousand line births; 1960, 1970 and 1901 dana                                  Ab-olore poveety icco=      - leel at rhatr incqe level beloo vhich a =inlsa
Accessmtnof Safe  aer (cencort of population) -rotal, urban, and rnral -lcu-                  noinicinnally adevuute dner pluseenalnoneoncr-food roeomie=nrlisnor
her of people (tcoha3  urbon, and rrol) vtith ereasonahieaccesstnosato                      ofiordable.
eater suopply (includes nresoned surfnnaaetuers or onneroned hot up onfta=inated          Isciouced felatioe Pcnersr lrnome Level (coo per capona) - urban cod eurol -
eanerwsueh an than from protecied hceebcle, sprtogos  and monicacy wells) an                Ruralrrelative ponerly mocove level is cne-ihird ot average per noaplea
percentages of theirerespecolne populatinons   In an orbanoareaa public                     persoral fnccce7 ci ihecountry.   Urban level is derived I rca the erurl
foonrtai  oreiacdrosnDlocatedonotcrenthan 000 miners frq= ahouser=y be                     levelnlrb dynuinot forbhigher_osnnoflivngoinourban areas
considered as bring onthic reasonable access of Ibr loose.  It roeal areao               Esinntend Popolat ion lelco Absoluse Povarcv Income Level (percent) - urban
reasonable access u=ould imply chat lIe bhousetife   moahe=ers of che household            andua  - Pnrcent of ynoplan Ic' (urbon and rural) vho aere ''absolute
do non lane ro apend a dnnprororrnncane part of cle day  in fetchmog ihe                   ,ocr'"
f amily 's vtorer nerds.
Accemo torrete Disposal (perce.n of eopulation) - toal,  urbtc  abs eural -
tA- er of yeople (total, urban. ard cornral  seeved bp r.nreta dioposal an
porcoentaes ci cloei  respecrive popolarcino . Icreca dispnosl nop  oc lodr
theaocllecrscrnad disposalnVlth  ror incuoc loranmeOi,of hucrnoexroi
andleesne-outer bypmsnee-hornrmSynnenr or thencis  yf in priconuoandraso=-
le  Ienutallalon-i.
Popolatnot per Pfyihiao -Popolacooo deivded  by  nopber of praccising chyto-                                                    Iconculc and 1 oc1Il Dot.. Dt.v fo
_Iand qoalified irem I    mdical schbol or univerniry Ironel        c.oncct b.alcoc s an  Projectionn  Deyarettni
Popoltanor per Nuesing Poersne- Popolasnoc divided opy nueh=b ferofrctising                                                                  fop 1910
ole sod 1emai  graduoate nurses, sssistan nh.  rsesi   yra-cal nursem oad
nuraing suxiliariex



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DE'ZELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82 -                                                       ANNUAL RATE CF GROWTH (%, constant prices) -
US$ Bln .     %                 1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           165.38    100.0                         3.7              3.6               3.6              2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08     -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/          V.A. Pe- Worker
us$ BIn.            %             Mil.        %_                US$      Y of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8              39.6            180.6      70.7               220            56
Industry                        25.2              25.1            32.2      12.6                783           199
Services                        35.5              35.3            42.6      16.7                833           211
Total/Average                  100.5             100.0            255.4    100.0                394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Governmert            e/                  __      -Central Government
Rs.Bln.         %  of  GDP                                   Rs. Bl-.        1  of  GDP
1981/82      1981/82  1977/981/981/82                       1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                   285.77        19.4         19.1                               149.2E      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures               280.34        19.0         18.2                               155.02      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              5.43         0.4          0.9                                -5.75      -0.4        -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/            116.91         7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7         5.5
External Assistance (net) d/        16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    Febuary 1982                February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5          615.5                     711.7
Bank Credit to Government(net)    54.6         69.2      77.6      76.4     94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2                         353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2        156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                           487.7
(.err-nt'ze or nfe- Euc'ora1                              April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                      27.4       30.3      34.6     36.5      41.2      44.1     43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3               281.7                 287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7       -1.1       2.1       5.2      -        17.1      18.2       9.3            10.0                   2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0          6.3      11.1      16.3     16.0      25.6      29.6      19.1            22.7 g/               21.0
Sank Credit to Commercial Sector  20.5         22.7      20.7      12.6     20.3      21.5      17.0      18.7            20.9 g/               15.5 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market nrices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchainge rate prevailing during the period covered,
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change from  end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/  Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                1979/80  1980/81   1981/82  1982/83                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                              USS Mln.    Z
Exports of Goods 9/                 7,948     8,504    8,511       8,800                 Engineering Goods                 901       11
Imports of Goods _/               -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                    Tea                                457        6
Trade Balance                      -3,435   -7,615   -6,742    -6,001                    Gems                              759       10
NFS (net)                           1,042      1,365     1,120     1,088                 Clothing                          556        7
Leather & Leather Froducts    470            6
Resource Balance                   -2,393   -t,250   -5,622   -4,913                     Jute Manufactures                 279        4
Iron Ore                          352        4
lnterest Income (net) k/              287       600        212      -128                Cotton Textiles                    319        4
Net Transfers  1/                   1,852     2,771      1,577     1,668                 Sugar                             104        1
Others                          3,789       47
Balance on Current Account            -254   -2,879   -3,833    -3,373
Official Aid                                                                             Total                           7,986      100
Gross Disbursements                 1,218      1,629     1,821     1,933                 EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                        1,894     2,338      2,475     2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                 -        1,035       690     1,980                Outstanding and Disbursed                    18.3
All Other Items  o/                  -740      -130   -1.075        -358                Undisbursed                                   8.5
Outstanding, including                      26.8
Increase in Reserves ()              -224       345    2.397        -182                   Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204         6,859      4.462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/          7,204     6,532      3,498     1,703                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 j/  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) j/              4,046    6,657      5,570      4,686                                                           US$ million
IBRD          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed             i,357          6,688
Undisbursed                           1,896          4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                         3,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971         .      US1.00 = Rs 7.50                           Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 = USS0.13333                                                     Rs 1.00 = US$0,0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:           US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = US$0. 137376
After end-June 1972                    :      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981            :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.099
Rs 1,00 = US$0.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982            :      USS1.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = USS0.104
1/ Estimated.
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
IMF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/ Includes commercial borrowing.
p/ Excluding gold.
a/ Net of crude petroleum exports.



ANNEX II
Pag-e iof2 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                               1,568.0          -
76 Credits fully disbursed                                  -       4,364.4             -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -          30.0          11.87
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -          83.0          13.99
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -           27.7           6.84
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -          16.4            0.31
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -          40.0           8.55
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -         105.0            3.59
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -         150.0          10.17
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -            4.0           0.98
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           5.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            52.44
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0          -             1.31
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -            17.08
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0          -             3.68
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0          -             5.69
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0         14.82
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -           20.0           4.01
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -          150.0           9.62
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          11.60
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.68
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0            1.57
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -          23.0          10.40
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -            8.0           4.81
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -          70.0           6.34
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -           13.0           1.37
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -           58.0           0.24
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5          -             3.86
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -         107.0          64.61
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -          87.0            8.30
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                        8.0           6.19



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 6
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             4.66
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0          -            16.68
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -          117.6          57.00
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0          49.63
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          11.56
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -           85.0          29.91
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -           17.5          10.53
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0          10.55
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0          -            28.48
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -          150.0          87.61
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0         170.17
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -          111.0            0.10
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          63.60
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -           38.0           9.88
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0          20.30
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -              25.0            9.45
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0            6.07
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0          52.90
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0          68.92
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -           48.0          17.49
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -          175.0          26.76
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0            9.77
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -          210.0          99.51
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -           37.0          18.45
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0          18.29
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0          39.48
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0          25.95
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -           18.0           3.75
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0         132.77
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0          18.95
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0         221.29
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0          30.35
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          44.68
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -           80.0           64.42
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -            15.29



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                   -          225.0         179.32
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0          -            25.30
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                       400.0          -            42.02
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                       -           35.0          28.17
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                       -           83.0          77.59
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II             -           42.0          29.88
1108-IN     1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                  -          140.0         132.36
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                 -          314.0         210.79
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation               -           54.0          53.85
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project               -          400.0         344.72
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.           -           23.0          21.75
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.            -           28.0          25.25
1138-IN    19R1      M.P. Agricultural Ext. IT               -           37.0          36.27
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0          109.46
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II          -          400.0         366.87
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation         -          220.0         206.58
2050-IN     1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                  100.0          -            81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry             -           29.0          26.86
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development                -           25.0          23.37
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                             150.0          -           124.82
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II           300.0                      300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                               190.0          -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                 -          160.0          23.34
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                            -            6.0            5.80
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization            200.0          -           181.91
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III             304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     20.3          -            20.00
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                      -           60.0          48.41
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                    -           72.0          71.45
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry              -           33.0           31.70
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                  -            --
Irrigation II                        -           31.0          31.00
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                 -          127. 0        123.26
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration          165.5          --          163.05
2210-IN     1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                       -          200.0          200.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development*    222.3            -           222.30
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II*                -          150.0         150.00
*1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II*             -          101.0         101.00
Total                                    4,783.1    11,446.6
of which has been repaid               1,211.8        120.4
Total now outstanding                    3,571.3    11,326.2
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31        3,571.3     11,326.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          1,854.3      4,052.3
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative dis-
bursements converted to their US dollar equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate (1 SDR = US$1.07867) in effect on March 31, 1983.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26
B. STATEMENT OF IFC_INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -       1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -       0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6         2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corpo ration                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporatiort Ltd.        7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3        -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                   28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.               16.3         -      16.3
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.              8.5                  8.5
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMEN'TS         208.3       12.1    220.4
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.2      56.2
Repaid                        28.3          -      28.3
Cancelled                     15.9        1.4    _17.3
Now Held                     111.1         7.5    118.6
Undisbursed                   93.1         0.2     93.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1983 total US$1,008 million, representing an increase
of about 17% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1983, is US$5,907 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing mediumr- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
1/ Thece notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 has been completed and was closed on March 31, 1983. Dis-
bursements are expected to be completed by the end of April 1983.
Loan 1511 is nearly complete and was also scheduled to close on
March 31, 1983. Although project implementation has been satisfactory, a
small number of sub-projects remain unfinished. Following a detailed review
of the project by a Bank mission in April, a short extension of the closing
date will be made to allow completion of these sub-projects and full disbur-
sement of the loan proceeds.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effecitive Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August.  Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Following completion of 37 fertilizer sub-projects, Credit 598 was
closed on December 31, 1982. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
the end of April 1983.  About US$3 million in the credit accouint are expected
to be cancelled.
Credit 1125 is proceeding generally satisfactorily. Procurement of
all critical items is on schedule. The need to undertake unexpected piling
and foundation work identified by detailed soil surveys delayed somewhat the
start of major civil works. This has now been completed, and erection of the
ammonia and urea plants is scheduled to begin in April-May 1983.
Ln. No. 2123  Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress, with construction about to commence. Prepara-
tion work and investment approvals for the energy efficiency and pollution
control components are underway.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26
Ln. No. 2205 Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project; US$165.5 million loan of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
Ln. No. 2241  South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project; US$222.3 million
loan of March 31, 1983; Effective Date:  Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Bombay High Project is progressing well.  All platforms and
subsea pipelines have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached
its targetted production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is
presently producing 250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Initial activities under the Krishna-Godavari Project are about four
months behind schedule due to longer than anticipated testing and completion
time for on-shore wells, lack of adequate number of geophysicists for
processing the seismic data, and delay in initiating procurement actions.
These problems have been discussed in depth with ONGC, and they are in the
process of undertaking steps to correct the situation.
The South Bassein Gas Project is designed to assist India to increase
her gas production capability through the installation of offshore platforms
for drilling, processing, and gas flaring, and the laying of a subsea
pipeline to Gujarat State and the fertilizer plant at Hazira. Initial
procurement activities are underway.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
Cr. No. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
Cr. No. 1053  US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Company's station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
All these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satis-
factorily.  Construction works for the Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The first unit at the
Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in February 1982, the second
unit in October 1982, and the third in March 1983. The first unit at the
Korba station was also commissioned in March 1983. In the Third Trombay
project, procurement is complete and the generator is expected to be commis-
sioned in April/May 1983. Tata Electric Company's financial performance in
1982, and projections through 1985, are satisfactory. Cost overruns, caused
by design modifications, price increases in materials, and increases in
customs duties, will be met by the Government of India.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
These projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
Procurement of materials and equipment is on schedule, and disbursements are
keeping pace with appraisal estimates. Detailed plans for the new Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) training institute to be est:ablished in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26
Hyderabad are well advanced. REC's financial performance continues to be
satisfactory. In the near future, REC's major thrust under both projects
will be on improving consumer connection performance, which is lagging con-
siderably behind projections. REC is in the process of reassessing the
annual work programs of the State Electricity Boards, including an analysis
of the reasons for the poor connection performance, the setting of realistic
new goals, and the introduction of measures to improve the situation.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1313 has been successfully concluded and was closed on March 31,
1983. Disbursements are expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Loan 1592 and Credit 1112 are both progressing satisfactorily and
there are no major problems. Initial delays in Loan 1592 as a result of late
procurement caused by a strike have been offset by accelerated implementation
during 1982. All bidding under Credit 1112 is now complete and civil works
are underway. Institutional improvements under all projects have been
achieved and the financial position of the Posts & Telegraph Department
remains sound.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2210  Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project;
Cr. No. 1299  US$200 million loan and US$200 million credit of December 23,
1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987
These projects are designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
re-manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The physical execution of
Credit 844 continues to make good progress. Procurement of all critical
equipment is complete and civil works are well advanced. Commitments under
the project total nearly 97% of the Credit amount. Initial activities for
the second project are underway. The Indian Railways- financial and traffic
performance continued its significant improvement in FY1982/83, and this is
expected to be sustained in FY1983/84.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered.  Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 19,83
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, :L980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with about 75%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been considerable recent improvement in the Calcutta
project, including definite progress at the policy level in response to IDA's
15-point action program to improve project implementation, which was
presented to the project authorities in October 1982. All 75 new tramcars
financed under the project have been delivered, an additional 60 should be
renovated and in service by December 1983, and the operating performance of
the tram company has improved substantia:Lly over the last six months.
Although the operating performance of the bus corporation remains unsatisfac-
tory, the recent appointment of three new senior staff members to the cor-
poration's management and a new Chairman of the Board is expected to improve
operations, and there are now over 500 new buses in service.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception of the
sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing delays in
land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively pursuing
the resolution of these court cases and has identified alternative sites to
be used so that the sites and services works can be finished by the project
closing date.  The financial performance of the Pallavan Transport Corpora-
tion (PTC), the project implementing agency, is unsatisfactory. It is not
generating funds sufficient to meet its financial targets. An action plan to
cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and raise revenues has recently
been formulated and, subject to the agreement of GOTN, will enable PTC to
achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain them thereafter.
Progress under Credit 1185 is mixed. Procedures to improve cost
recovery have not been introduced as agreed, studies on institutional
strengthening of the project agencies have not begun, and the project
authority suffers from a serious lack of staff with proper management exper-
tise. However, there has been considerable improvement recently in land
acquisition for slum upgrading, where completed works have benefitted nearly
6,700 households. Procurement is proceeding well and all physical works are
expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Following the completion of physical works, the project was closed
on December 31, 1982. Institutional and financial performance under the
project were unsatisfactory, and several of the implementing agencies were
unable to achieve the financial performance targets which had been agreed
with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26
Cr. No. 1280  Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$72 million credit
of November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 8, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Recent progress under Credit 842 has been encouraging. Preparation
of contract documents and drawings for the water supply ccmponent is well
advanced. For the 137 sewerage sub-projects, all tender documents have been
completed and construction is well underway, although there have been serious
delays on the two major sewerage treatment plants due to land acquisition
difficulties. Cost overruns are expected and IDA has requested the project
authorities to prepare detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
these. The financial performance of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Department continues to be satisfactory, and all financial conditions under
the project are being met.
The closing date of Credit 848 has been extended one year as a result
of initial procurement delays. Physical implementation of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and all works are expected to bea finished by the
extended completion date of December 1983.  The quality of construction work
is excellent, and the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board is proving to be
an effective implementing agency. However, there continue to be significant
problems with financial and operational performance, which must be improved
considerably if agreed targets under the project are to be met. IDA has
brought this to the attention of the project authorities repeatedly, and
plans to concentrate its supervision efforts for the duration of the project
on improving the financial and operational aspects of implementation.
Credit 899 is proceeding reasonably well. It has now entered the
full construction stage, and work is satisfactory. Disbursements are in line
with the appraisal estimates. The level of tariffs is adequate to achieve
the financial performance targets under the project.  The Government of
Maharashtra is preparing detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
the anticipated cost increases which have occurred as a result of delayed
start of construction and retendering on one major water supply facility.
Attention now needs to be devoted to the resolution of the staffing difficul-
ties in the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board, particularly the
lack of financial staff to properly administer their financial operations.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes have
been nearly finalized. Progress in the project has been hampered by the
Government of Rajasthan (GOR) fund allocations running at between 50%-60%
of annual requirements. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the construc-
tion of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the city of
Jodhpur, in order to consider the posrsibility of accessing water from the
Rajasthan Canal instead. A feasibility report has been completed. GOR has
decided on the alternative Rajasthan Canal source, which will be funded
without Bank assistance.
Initial work under Credit 1280 is proceeding well. The design team
has been established and detailed design of all sub-projects is on schedule.
The bid documents for civil works in Ahmedabad, one of the project cities,
have been approved and will be issued shortly. Work is now concentrating on
preparation of bids for materials procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
-Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
-979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March      1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
Cr. No. 1269  credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: December 1, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1289  Subernarekha Irrigation Project; US$127 million credit of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date:  January 10, 1983; Closing
Date:  April 30, 1987.
Cr. No. 1319  Haryana II Irrigation Project; US$150 million credit of
February 23, 1983; Effective Date: Expected May 1983;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1988.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Following unsatisfactory early project progress, Loan 1251 was refor-
mulated in May 1980, at which time project completion was planned for Decem-
ber 1984. On the basis of improved implementation performance under the
reformulated program, a one-year extension of the closing date is now under
consideration.
Implementation of Maharashtra I hlas been unbalanced, with emphasis on
major works. As of March 31, 1983, the original closing date, the large
construction components were about 80% complete, but there were major short-
falls in the minor irrigation and CAD works. Over recent months there has
been some improvement in implementation, with the provision of adequate
budget resources and staff, and the preparation of detailed work programs for
completion of the works. Therefore, a one-year extension of the closing date
is being considered to allow completion of all project components and hence
full development of the irrigation potential of the area.
As a result of cost overruns, the Periyar Vaigai Project was reformu-
lated in 1981, at which time completion wras planned for March 1984. Accord-
ingly, the closing date has been extended by one year to March 31, 1984.
Recent implementation progress has been encouraging, particularly in the
construction of field channels. The project could profit still further,
however, from improved coordination among the various Government of Tamil
Nadu agencies responsible for project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26
The Karnataka Project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
Although the Gujarat Medium Project is 30% behind schedule on
average, there has been considerable recent improvement. There is no longer
a shortage of field staff, construction standards have improved, and there
has been substantial progress in finalizing the designs of the distribution
systems. Disbursements, at 50% of the SAR target, are expected to improve
following the introduction of steps designed to reduce ineligible expendi-
tures. The GOG is currently preparing detailed implementation schedules to
ensure completion of the 23 sub-projects by June 1984.
The Gujarat II Project has also demonstrated recent signs of improve-
ment. Staffing problems, which had been a cause of serious delays, have now
been resolved. The quality of construction work has improved, design
problems have been corrected, and the Water and Land Management Institute is
contributing significantly to the training of Irrigation Department staff.
Although the project remains considerably behind schedule and will face cost
overruns, all components continue to be economically and financially viable.
The GOG is now preparing detailed implementation schedules for the completion
of project works which will form the basis for future monitoring.
Shortages of cement and inadequate provision of budgetary resources
continue to delay implementation of the Punjab Project. In addition, there
are cost overruns in the canal and watercourse lining components of about 15%
and 40%, respectively; and the study of water charges, due in August 1981,
remains incomplete.  The Government of Punjab has repeatedly been requested
by Bank supervision missions to address these issues urgently.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project is considerably behind
schedule. The sub-project appraisal process has been overly slow. While
there are 12 sub-projects now under implementation, approximately 20-25 are
needed to assure expected project benefits and full disbursement of the
credit proceeds. Moreover, the works are unbalanced in favor of construction
of dams rather than conveyance systems. Several significant procurement
contracts are scheduled to be awarded in April 1983, which is expected to
bring about accelerated project implementation.
There has been significant recent progrss in the MP Major Project.
Procurement procedures have been streamlined, several major ICB and LCB
contracts are expected to be awarded in March-April 1983, and design work for
the canal structures is progressing well. The GOMP's planned intensification
of project activities during the current December 1982-June 1983, and the
1983/84 construction seasons, should be adequate to offset initial start-up
delays. Attention can now be devoted to completion of the resettlement plan
for persons to be displaced by project reservoirs, and to initiation of the
minor project components, such as roads, research stations, and the estab-
lishment of drainage and hydrometeorological networks.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26
Credit 1289 supports an irrigation and industrial/water supply
program on 255,000 ha in the States of Bilhar, Orissa and West B3engal.
Credit 1319 continues the Government of lHaryana's modernization program
through the lining of irrigation channels and the provision of supplementary
water from augmentation tubewells. Early project activities are proceeding
as scheduled.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfaLctory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
Th project is designed to finance the construction of 120-160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. The Government of
Karnataka has proposed a reduction to 87 in the number of schemes to be
completd. Project preparation has been slow due to serious staffing vacan-
cies and the overloading of senior project staff with non-project respon-
sibilities. Design work is seriously behind schedule and construction has
not yet begun at the dam sites. The Government of Karnataka has been asked
to prepare a program to complete the scheduled works within the agreed
project period, together with a staffing and budget plan, by the end of
October 1982.
Credit No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million
credit of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Credit No. 1332  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells II Project; US$101 credit
of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The first project has been successfully completed within the original
closing date. In fact an additional 70 tubewells above the 500 originally
plannned at appraisal were constructed. D)isbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Initial activities are underway for Credit 1332, which provides for
the installation of 2200 new tubewell systems, and the upgrading of 750
existing tubewell systems, based on the modernized design which was success-
fully proven in the first project.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of _February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala_Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June_25, 1980; Effective Date:_August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of_May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22,_1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of_ May 7, 1981; Effective_Date: July_22,_1981;_Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7,_1981; _Effective_Date:_July 22, 1981;_Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of_May 5, 1982; Effective Date:_July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging, both
in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields.
In Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, significant gains have been made
under the projects.
There has been considerable improvement in the West Bengal Project
over the past year. Staffing problems have been resolved, and civil works
have started. Attention now needs to be devoted to improvement in fieldwork,
which is weak due to insufficient supervision of extension workers and poor
generation of agricultural recommendations.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26
In Rajasthan, too, significant early gains were achieved following
the establishment of a well organized and stable extension service. Although
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven, the basic extension system is
well established.
Implementation of the Assam Project is slow due in part to unsettled
conditions in the State. Insufficient supervision contributes, inter alia,
to lack of coordination among various irmplementing agencies, staff vacancies,
and poor understanding of the AEOs appropriate role in the extension sys-
tem--all of which result in ineffective field work.
Implementation of the Bihar Project is unsatisfactory. Despite the
decision of the Government of Bihar (GOB) one year ago to commit adequate
budget funds and appoint key staff, there has been no progress to date.
Staff vacancies remain, field extension continues to be weak, and civil works
have not yet started.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been estab-
lished and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension recommen-
dations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies. The Directorate of
Extension in the Central Government s Department of Agriculture needs
strengthening.
In Kerala, following the successful introduction of the T&V system
in three Districts, the project was extended to the entire State in December
1982. The recruitment of the additional staff should be completed by April
1983, after which project implementation is expected to accelerate con-
siderably.
In Maharashtra, project implementation is ahead of schedule. The
basic infrastructure of the revised extension service is well established.
Field workers are visiting farmers regularly and their recommendations are
being widely accepted.
The Madhya Pradesh II Project remains behind schedule due to delayed
sanctioning of budget resources during the first two project years. There
has recently been considerable improvement in implementation whilch is
expected to continue.
Implementation of the Andhra Prad'esh Project has been hampered during
its first year by vacancies in senior staff positions caused by the decision
of the newly elected State Government to retire all staff over 55 years of
age. Promotion boards are now meeting to choose staff for the vacant posi-
tions. Field activities have been ongoing for about six months and are
generally satisfactory, although an improved orientation program would be of
benefit to staff at all levels. Civil works and procurement activities are
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continues satisfactorily. Implementation of the
smallholder component, the project's largest, continues to gain momentum with
a 36% increase in plantings in 1982/83. One crumb rubber factory of the nine
included in the project is in operation and a further two should be commis-
sioned in late 1983. The cashewnut component is completed.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
Cr. No. 1209 US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
1982; Effective Date: May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers. The project is
proceeding well, with disbursements ahead of schedule. In July 1982, ARDC
and ACD/RBI were successfully merged into the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (NABARD). The merger was carried out efficiently,
permitting operations to continue uninterrupted. The loan recovery perfor-
mance of the State Land Development Banks during 1981/82 was weak. NABARD
has introduced rehabilitation programs and management studies designed to
improve loan recovery and the overall performance of the participating banks.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project has made significant progress over the last six months.
Contact has improved with the State agricultural universities, where there is
considerable enthusiasm for NARP objectives. Implementation of sub-projects
in Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu is proceeding on schedule. The basic
research projects, although satisfactory thus far, need to focus their atten-
tion on local needs and problem-oriented multi-disciplinary research.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project was revised in May 1982 to provide additional bag storage
capacity in lieu of the bulk storage component. A one-year extension of the
closing date was granted, with the possibility of further extension if
project implementation improved. The project continues to be considerably
behind schedule. However, implementation has gained some momentum since
September 1982, when specific targets were established for accomplishment of
certain project works by June 1983. Land acquisition, construction, and
procurement are, overall, in line with these targets, but there remain
deficiencies in staffing, and in the monitoring, training and research
programs which have to be overcome to ensure satisfactory project progress.



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation  (INCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Disbursements under Credit 871 are
on schedule. However, the construction of- godowns has been slower than
anticipated because cement supplies have been erratic and the response by
contractors to tender offers has been poor in remote areas. Although the
project is expected to be completed on time, increases in construction costs
are likely to require a revision of the project scope to keep expenditures
within the project financing provisions.
Project implementation in most of the nine participating States under
Credit 1146 is also behind schedule, principally because of organizational
delays. The participating agencies have taken steps to speed up implemena-
tion, but progress continues to be hampered by lack of adequate number of
properly trained staff, supply shortages and cost escalations. NCDC and the
State agencies concerned have resolved to do what is required to speed up
implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, :1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effect-Eve Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near comple-
tion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement improve-
ments in their management support of the dairy producers' unions as required
under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Under Credit 521, nearly 1,500 dairy cooperative societies (DCSs)
have been formed, benefitting over 78,000 families. During 1981/82, these
DCSs collected over 30 million liters of milk, for which the producers were
paid Rs 67 million. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1982.
However, as several project-financed facilities are not yet complete, includ-
ing two processing plants, one powder plant, four training centers, and
living quarters for staff, the GOI has requested an extension of the closing
date, which is now under consideration.
Credit 522 has been successfully completed and was closed on
March 31, 1983. Over 800 dairy cooperative societies were formed, serving
a membership of approximately 35,000 families. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Physical execution under Credit 824 is excellent, with the estab-
lishment of new rural and urban dairies, cattle feed plants, and the acquisi-
tion of rail and road milk tankers. The cooperative processing industry is
served by 18,000 cooperatives with membership of over two million households.
In addition, substantial institution building is taking place through the
formation of federations, unions and cooperatives in 59 milksheds covered
under the Operation Flood II Agreements designed to ensure autonomy in pric-
ing and a three-tiered cooperative structure.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, l984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects are designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring, mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. The construction of transit and bulk storehouses has
been delayed by land acquisition problems. However, there has been good
progress in civil works and equipment procurement for the seed processing
plants. It is expected that all works except seed farm development under
both projects will be completed by December 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation improve-
ment programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26
The planting and improvement programs initially made very good progress
although this has been dampened in 1982/83 by decreased cashewnut prices and
Corporation land acquisition problems resulting from the Forest Conservation
Act (1980). There is still every expectation that the project will fulfill
its objective of significantly increasing cashew production and improving the
incomes of the farmers.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be covered
by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are increasing.
Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under contract and
work is progressing satisfactorily. The link between university research
and project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in
the early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effect:ive Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The recent significant improvemient in the staffing situation of the
Department of Sericulture should bolste!r the previously curtailed extension
program and should lead to increased bivoltine silk production which is a
major project objective hitherto not be!ing achieved. All other project
components are progressing satisfactorily, especially the industrial comr
ponent where spun silk mill and silk filature are expected to be operational
within 9-12 months.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The recent change in management of Jammu and Kashmir Horticultural
Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation is expected to recoup implemen-
tation progress lost in the last 12 months, and about 60% of project
facilities could be operational for the 1983 harvest. Training programs and
research activities are now well behind schedule.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26
Cr. No. 1286 Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
December 7, 1982; Closing Date:  March 31, 1988
Physical progress under Credit 925 is satisfactory, except in the
Eastern Region of the State, where greater population density, lower per
capita Income and fragmented farm size have been disincentives to the plant-
ing programs. Remedial measures designed to address these problems, includ-
ing free distribution of seedlings and a planned land consolidation program,
are under consideration by the project authorities.
Credit 961 is proceeding well. In response to rising prices for
poles and pulpwood, the project has been adopted enthusiastically by the
local residents. The current rate of planting is more than five times that
which existed before the project. Project management is good, with cost
control, audit, disbursement and procurement activities in line with
appraisal report schedules. If the present momentum is maintained, it may be
possible to resolve the rural fuelwood crisis in Gujarat within a decade.
Implementation of the West Bengal Project is satisfactory. The
overall physical targets of the project have been exceeded. The building
program is progressing well and ahead of schedule. Attention now needs to
focus on the recruitment and training of forestry extension workers, who are
becoming urgently needed as tree plantings increase and project activities
accelerate.
Credit 1286, which became effective in December 1982, is designed to
increase suppies of fuelwood and secondary products through the establishment
of 94,000 ha of a new tree plantations, the rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of
degraded forests, and the strengthening of research, training and forestry
extension services in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. Both States have made a
good start in implementing the first season's plantation program, and
procurement of vehicles and equipment is underway.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The recent improvement in project execution continues, and project
activities are well coordinated. Progress on the main Dholbaha Dam is satis-
factory, and the afforestation and soil conservation components are on
schedule. Feasibility reports for ten watersheds have been competed, five
of which have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. There are expected to
be cost savings from the irrigation and flood control components of the
project, as a result of which the Bank is now reviewing the overall project
design and concept and the possibility of expanding the project scope.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW)          million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the harbor works are now proceeding well following the
finalization of a contractual dispute in September 1982. These harbor works
and shore facilities are expected to be completed within the next year. The
village roads and water supply components have been largely completed.
However, the credit component is considerably behind schedule as a result of
the weak financial position of the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association (GFCCA) and loan recovery problems of the participating banks.
Recommendations for improvement of GFCCA are currently under review by the
Government of Gujarat.
In Andhra Pradesh, one of three fishing harbors being constructed
under the project has been operation for nearly one year, and the remaining
two are scheduled to be completed by mid-1983 and early 1984. The financing
of mechanized fishing vessels remains at: a standstill due to loan recovery
problems of the participating banks. NABARD is in the process of discussing
with the banks ways to rectify this situation. Due to an expansion of
private sector investment in seafood processing plants, the Government has
decided to delete one of the two processing plants from the project and
reduce the scope of the second one.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is generally satisfactory.  Construction of
the fish hatcheries in all five project States has commenced, and the first
hatcheries are expected to begin limited operations by June 1983. All 58
Fish Farmer Development Agencies are fully functional and, as project
activities accelerate, are placing necessary extension agents in the field.
Progress of the pond improvement schemes has slowed considerably due to
difficulties with loan sanctioning by the participating banks. Through a
more active involvement in the loan approval process, NABARD is taking steps
to correct this situation.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Marked improvement
has occurred in several components especially construction, now that cement
is being allocated to the project on a priority basis. As a consequence,
disbursements are accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in
Uttar Pradesh has been appointed and the training program is well underway.



ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
The project is fully operational in Madurai District, with all nutri-
tion and health workers in place. Evaluation data show a significant decline
in malnourishment in the project area and the participation rate for those
people eligible for project benefits is over 90%. Civil works are a few
months behind schedule, but the Government of Tamil Nadu has Intensified its
supervision work which is expected to speed up completion of the health
subcenters and training facilities. Preparations are well advanced for the
planned expansion of the project into two more Districts in the State in
1983.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDI A
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of UP assisted by Bank Group staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
November 1981; December 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 27, 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1983.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOUP to undertake ]Land shaping in the terraces only
after the results of concerned research are agreed
with the Bank (para 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The GOUP to prepare detailed rules for cattle
exchange program and use only buffaloes for exchange
with cattle (para 49);
(c) The GOUP to prepare and furnish to the Bank, by
September 30, 1983, an outline of research to be
carried out under the Project (para 53);
(d)  Preparation, appraisal and implementation of sub-
watershed projects to follow agreed criteria (para
56);
(e) By September 30, 1983, GOI to appoint a Watershed
Development Commissioner and create adequate staff
positions in WDC (para 56);
(f) GOI to send for the Bank's comments and approval all
subwatershed projects appriased before mid-term
review (para 55); and
(g) GOI and the GOUP to carry out jointly with the Bank a
mid-term review of the project within the first
quarter after completion of the third year of the
project (para 64).



I



3                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D  I A
HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
R jve'_( r          ,,'  \  _J )  _                           Nayar Watershed
a   k P              2             /  oRU DRXFiPAYAG  
t_Srina or   t-I     -      \-  _-        I        3  //   2  /   1 \5#                          Nayar Watershed Boundary
5 s  1     -I          (              /         I  __SE                           Sub-watershed  Boundaries
_   --~F___  __  {    4                                           - 3  -  - - Microwatershed Boundaries / Numbers
0    Selected Villages
J _J > l Pau\r >s  9/ 8 < 9                               (\ % ) -- State Boundaries
International Boundaries
3   t  P    W         M      \\\N A  Y14A>__ Jffl    /   )                    O       5       1O      15      20       25 Kilometers
%,<$\RIGHTs I E\           W       S 
/ 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E3
6  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
N AS /$JR \L E F T g ) 5 | 13  /           A  rThic -ap h.. keen preporeev by ew Delli \_ _-b
3                                                                                              ffi\ -\-  f \  \/   \   )  any Xudg     on   tht f enno   the  ._
L   nsdcrsAminte  o- -25 Tr W, rtd Ban                                                                                       UT    A   R
nd th _ nt-rnet-onat Fi-D H8S
~~~~~~~~l          N ~~~~~~~~~~Corporto The d-n-indhe-
15                     -~~~~~~~~~ed end the b-fndohe Sh-e, e~  PR ADES H
onthis ap do.. oot niph
1 6                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pat at The WoId Bank  nd the
Int-ntina F-nanc  orperhon.
z                                                                                                                       any 1.d0m-n on fth tega SttkW-
>                              17                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edor-een  -nacptanc  of -  25'
MADHYA PRADESH.J.
he                                                                                                          800                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~85



