      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)



                                                                                                            Report Number : ICRR0020168


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P126722                                               MUNICIPAL WATER

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Armenia                                               Water



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                  Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-81290                                           30-Jun-2015                                                          18,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  21-Feb-2012                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                               Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           15,000,000.00                                                       0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            14,930,418.85                                                       0.00

  Actual                                                        14,930,418.85                                                       0.00




 Sector(s)
 Water supply(69%):Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood protection(31%)

 Theme(s)
 Urban services and housing for the poor(65%):Rural services and infrastructure(35%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator           Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            Peter Nigel Freeman                Christopher David Nelson         IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objective as stated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) and in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page
    4) was:
    To support improvement of the quality and availability of water supply in selected Armenia Water and Sewerage Company (AWSC)
    Service Area.”
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)



b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      Component A. Investments in Water Supply Systems. Appraisal estimate US$10.32 million. The ICR does not provide disaggregated
      actual cost of project components. This component planned to finance the design, construction and supervision of priority reconstruction
      and rehabilitation water works in the cities of Masis, Echmiadzin, and Ashtarak, including in their neighboring rural settlements.
      Component 2. Armenian Water and Sewerage Company (AWSC). Appraisal estimate US$2.16 million. Activities in this sub-
      component included, replacing water meters and installing meter chambers in several villages and cities throughout AWSC's service area,
      automation of pumping stations and reservoirs and procurement of equipment and machinery for AWSC.
      Component 3. AWSC Strengthening. Appraisal estimate US$5.52 million. This component planned to finance: (i) about two years of
      fees for an Enhanced Management Framework (EMF) to the incumbent operator under Public-Private Partnership (PPP) to improve
      AWSC’s operational performance. and, (ii) financing technical studies and providing support for project management and monitoring.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost. Appraisal estimate (including baseline cost and front-end fee) US$18.00 million. Actual cost US$17.96 million. The
      discrepancy between the appraisal estimate and actual cost was due to exchange rate fluctuations between the local currency -
       Armenian Dram (ADM) - and US$ during implementation.
      Project Financing. The project was financed by an IBRD loan. Appraisal estimate US$15.00 million. Actual amount disbursed US$14.97
      million. The discrepancy between the appraisal estimate and amount disbursed was due to exchange rate changes between ADM
      and US$. There was parallel financing for complementary activities from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the European Bank for
      Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and Kreditanstlat fur Wiederaufbaw (KfW).
      Borrower Contribution. Appraisal estimate US$3.00 million. Borrower contribution was slightly more than planned at US$3.06 million at
      closure.
      Dates. The project closed as scheduled on June 30, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Just before appraisal most of the water supply and sanitation systems in Armenia were in serious state of disrepair and water was available
     only for a few hours daily in most cities and villages. Further, non-revenue water losses in the sector - defined to include both, technical losses
     (such as due to leakages on service connections and transmission and distribution mains up to the point of customer metering point) and
     commercial losses (water not paid for such as due to inaccuracies associated with customer metering, meter reading, billing errors and
     unauthorized consumption of water due to theft) - was one of the highest in the world. The project development objective of rehabilitating
     water works and reducing non-revenue water was highly relevant in the country context.
     The project development objective was consistent with the Government's sustainable development program, which identified improvements in
     the water and wastewater sectors as priorities. The current government strategy articulated in the Armenia Development Strategy 2025
     envisages enhancing human capital through better access to quality services (including in healthcare, education, culture and basic
     infrastructure).
     The project development objective continue to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Armenia. At appraisal, the Country Partnership Strategy
     (CPS) for the 2009-2012 period, formulated in the wake of the global financial crisis 2007-2008, identified the need for strengthening
     competitiveness for post crisis growth in Armenia. The current CPS for the 2014-2017 period highlighted objective of improving access and
     quality and sustainability of key infrastructures.




     Rating
     Substantial
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)




   b. Relevance of Design

       The statement of the project development objective is clear and the causal links between project activities, their outputs and their outcomes is
       logical. And the intended outcomes were measurable. The outputs associated with component one activities (rehabilitating the priority
       water works), in conjunction component two and three activities (such as replacing water meters and installing meter chambers, automation of
       pumping stations and reservoirs AWSC strengthening) was expected to contribute to improving the quality and availability of water supply in the
       selected areas of the AWSC service area.
       The design not include activities aimed at long-term institutional strengthening of AWSC, since institutional support to the utility was provided
       only in the first year of the project. This meant that there was no mechanism to mitigate the risk associated with the financial sustainability of
       the operator.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective

     To support improvement of the quality and availability of water supply in selected service areas of the Armenian Water and Sewerage
     Company (AWSC).

    Rationale
    Outputs.
    • The selected water systems in the three cities and in their adjacent villages were rehabilitated,as targeted. (Activities included
    rehabilitation of boreholes, capacity pumping unit and inlet lines, installation of pumping unit and water meter chambers, renovation of daily
    reservoir control units and construction of water mains and waterlines).
    • Annual electricity consumption measured in Gross Kilowatt hours (KW/m3) decreased from .23, at the baseline to .16, at project
    closure. This exceeded the target of .17.
    • Water meters were replaced and meter chambers were installed in selected cities and villages of the AWSC service area as targeted. 35
    water systems were automated at closure, as compared to the target of 28, and equipment and machinery for the improving the Operation
    and Maintenance (O&M) system of the AWSC was purchased as targeted.
    • 119 inhabitants had registered water meters at closure, as compared to the target of 116. The number of subscribers with more than four
    months arrears decreased from 28 percent, at the baseline to 18 percent at closure, and as compared to the target of 21 percent.
    • 99.5 percent of the water, was disinfected in the project area as compared to the target of 96 percent. The amount of water production
    (liter per capita per day) decreased to 481, as compared to the target of 489.
    • The number of people in urban areas with access to improved water sources increased to 100978, as compared to the target of 99263.
    The corresponding number for people in rural areas was 31089, as compared to the target of 33328.
    • The number of customers with piped water connections increased to 32848, as compared to the target of 33609.
    • The Total Management Plan was completed as targeted. This plan included details on the state of existing water sector infrastructure
    assets, the current business plan and a future forecast for expansion.
    Outcomes.
    • Daily supply of drinking water in the selected areas increased from 12.3 hours, at the baseline to 17.6 hours at project closure. This
    exceeded the target of 16.6, hours.
    • Commercial and technical losses in selected AWSC service area decreased from 83.50 percent at the baseline, to 70 percent as
    targeted.
    • The ratio of billing and collection of AWSC increased from 93.5 percent, to 98 percent as targeted.
      At appraisal in January 2014, a survey of households were conducted in the two cities. The two cities were Masis and Ashtarak. The
    survey included 220 households in Masis and 211 in Ashtarak. A second stage survey was conducted in the two cities at closure. About
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)



 93 percent of the people in Masis and 90 percent in Ashtarak who participated in the baseline survey, were resurveyed. The main
 conclusions of the survey in the two cities was as follows.
 At closure, 45 percent of the beneficiaries reported satisfaction with the operation of the water supply system as compared to 32 percent at
 the baseline. The proportion of households who were dissatisfied with the short duration of water supply decreased 1.7 times after project
 completion. Households paid 10 percent more for water than they did before the project, due to a 9.5 percent increase in daily
 consumption of water. There was a 20 percent decrease in the proportion of households treating their water (boiling, filtering, adding
 Chlorine, settling or other) after the project. The ICR (page 19) provides no further details on why did thought the quality was sub-standard
 prior to the project. However, 53 percent of the households still remained unsatisfied with the quality of water.
 The three key outcome indications were either realized or surpassed. While it is difficult to assess the extent to which this project
 contributed to the outcomes in view of the complementary activities by other development partners, it is reasonable to conclude that the
 project significantly contributed to realizing the project development outcome.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 Economic Analysis. An economic cost-benefit analysis was conducted at appraisal and at closure using the same methodology for
 component one activities, which accounted for about 57 percent of the project cost. The economic benefits were assumed to come from time
 saved in fetching water, cost savings associated with saving on non-incremental water consumption and the value of increased water
 consumption. The economic costs included the capital and operating costs associated with the water works. At closure, the Net Present
 Value (NPC) was US$9.00 and with a 10 percent discount rate, the ex post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 25.5 percent as
 compared to the NPV of US$6.57 million and ex-ante Economic Internal Rate of Return was 26.1 percent.
 Financial Analysis. The main incremental financial benefits to AWSC were to come through increases in revenue collection due to (i)
 Increases in sale volume (due to the increase in number of customers from new connections and increased reliability of services to
 households living in upper floors of multi-story apartment buildings). And, (ii) Increased collection rates (due to increases in the number of
 billable consumers as the rehabilitation works was also required to disclose and formalize illegal connections). At appraisal, the Financial
 Internal Rate of Return was 10.9 percent. At closure, although AWSC did increase its revenues due to a combination of factors including
 increases in sale volume and billing and collection, the operating cost of AWSC increased even more during the implementation phase and
 AWSC incurred significant debt for the 2012-2014 period. With the current water tariffs which did not cover the interest, the principal
 payments and other costs of the management contract, there were serious doubts about AWSC's financial viability.
 Administrative and Operational Issues. The Bank financing leveraged funding from other development partners like the ADB and
 EBRD. The project accumulated savings of US$2.00 million which was used; (a) to extend on going rehabilitation works in water supply
 systems in selected areas. (b) Procure chlorination equipment, and (C) procure vehicles to improve the operational efficiency of the utility by
 introducing a new approach for improving billing accuracy. The disbursements were done in a timely fashion and there were no time overruns.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           57.00
 Appraisal                                                               25.50
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           57.00
 ICR Estimate                                                            26.10
                                                                                                           Not Applicable
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)




* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objective was rated as Substantial and relevance of design was rated as Substantial. Efficacy was rated as
Substantial. All outcomes were either surpassed or realized. Efficiency was rated as Modest. Although there were cost savings and this aided in
expanding the scope of project activities, it is not clear if AWSC would be financially viable.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Financial Risk: High. Although AWSC did manage to increase its revenue through increases in sales volume and billing and collection, its
operating costs outweigh the revenue and AWSC still remains dependent on the Government’s unconditional subsidies. It is not clear if AWSC
will be financially sustainable, especially since the government has not raised water tariffs since 2009. Also, although private companies have
shown an interest in bidding on the national lease contract, there is the risk that a suitable bid will not be proposed, without the commitment of
tariff reform and transparency of the regulator. There is also the risk to development outcome to ongoing benefits given Bank's decision to
move from specific investments in the water and sanitation sector to a reform focused approach.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       High


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design built on lessons from prior Bank financed water projects in Armenia (The Yerevan Water and Waste Water Project and the
     Armenia Municipal Water and Waste Water Project). At the Government’s request, the Bank expedited the appraisal process for faster
     approval. The Bank financing at appraisal was able to leverage funding for complementary activities from other development partners. The
     preparation secured funding from the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) to support the government in preparing PPP
     arrangements based on global lessons. Several risks were identified and risk mitigation measures incorporated and the overall risk of the
     project was rated as Moderate at appraisal. The implementing agency (discussed in section 10b) had been implementing several projects
     implemented by the Bank and other multilateral organizations and the agency staff had extensive experience with Bank fiduciary (financial
     and procurement) policies and procedures and its track record in applying environmental safeguards was deemed to be satisfactory by the
     relevant donor institutions.
     However, there were shortcomings:

       • the project underestimated the risk associated with the financial sustainability of AWSC. At preparation, there was no analysis of the
       current or projected financial position of AWSC as is the standard practice for water and waste water projects according to the Bank’s
       operational guidelines. This in turn undermined the financial sustainability of AWSC.
       • A more robust analysis of the government’s ability to purse tariff increases of the government’s constraints/ ability to pursue could have
       helped in adopting appropriate risk mitigation measures.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)




   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Supervision missions were regularly conducted (eight missions over roughly a four year period) with participation of technical, engineering,
   procurement, financial, management and safeguards specialists. The presence of the Task Teal Leader aided in addressing issues as they
   arose. The supervision team also helped in getting additional trust funds to supplement support on the tariff reform agenda. There was
   compliance with safeguards and fiduciary issues (discussed in section 11).
   The supervision team repeatedly raised the financial sustainability issue as it was linked to a financial covenant. The disbursements were not
   suspended due to non-compliance because of the Government’s decision to move to a national lease approach and broader discussion on
   institutional reform.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government commitment was demonstrated by legal reforms (such as allowing meter installation by AWSC which enabled the
   company to start billing based on actual use rather than piped diameter and the law which enabled AWSC to disconnect non-paying
   customers, thereby providing an incentive for customers to pay their bills to the utility). The Government’s commitment was also
   demonstrated by its contributing more than planned by way of counterpart funding.
   However, the government’s inability to act decisively on tariffs limited the progress of AWSC towards financial viability.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Armenia Water Sewerage Company (AWSC) was in charge of implementing the project. The company had managed several projects
   funded by other development partners since 2007 (ADB and EBRD) and since the agency was also managing ongoing projects by these
   organizations, using this agency aided in achieving economies of scale. The implementing agency executed the project activities in a timely
   fashion and within budget and complied with safeguard requirements (discussed in section 11).
   The International Financial Reporting Standards submitted by AWSC in 2014 included inaccurate posting of certain actual expenditures to
   improper cost lines and this necessitated re-submission of audit and the final audit had not been submitted at project closure.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The three key M&E indicators – increased availability of daily water supply in the selected areas, decrease in the level of non-revenue losses
   (that is, technical and commercial losses of AWSC), and increase in billing and collection of revenue of AWSC – were appropriate.




b. M&E Implementation
   The M&E implementation was through baseline data and data through final surveys, Collection and submission of data to the Bank was done
   in a timely fashion.




c. M&E Utilization
   The results were tied to the contractor’s performance bonuses. The ICR (page 8) notes that the data on key performance indicators for the
   utility AWSC continued to be measured even after project closure.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a “Category B” project for environmental assessment purposes. One safeguard policy was triggered:
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). At appraisal, an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was prepared and publicly
   disclosed as required. The ICR (page 8) notes that there was compliance with safeguards issues during implementation. There were no
   instances of temporary of permanence land acquisition or resettlement.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. AWSC had implemented several prior Bank financed projects and projects financed by other multilateral organizations
   and the agency staff had experience with Bank’s financial management policies. An assessment was made of the implementing agency’s
   financial management arrangements at appraisal and the financial management was deemed to be satisfactory during project execution (iCR,
   page 8).
   Procurement. Procurement support was provided by qualified staff with experience on Bank’s procurement policies and procedures. The ICR
   (page 8) that procurement management was satisfactory through the execution phase.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             MUNICIPAL WATER (P126722)



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome               High                              High                               ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.
(1) An enabling environment is required for encouraging private sector participation and sustained service delivery. This is particularly so for
Former Soviet Union countries where the prices that consumers have to pay for water supply and sanitation services remain low. This could
have implications for the financial sustainability of the utility.
 (2) A tailoring of the PPP to the conditions of the local service area is required. This project showed PPP arrangements that worked in Armenia
were less effective in AWSC service given the disparities in asset base, customer base and O&M requirements.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is reasonably well written and provides a candid description of the problems encountered during implementation. The ICR’s
description of the financial covenant is however confusing. The clarifications provided by the Task Team Leader was more helpful in this
regard. The ICR (page 19) provides no details on the reasons regarding the perceptions about the quality of water before and after the project.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
