Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16775
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NICARAGUA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit No. 2631-NI)
June 17, 1997
Central America Departnent
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: C6rdobas (C)
1994: US$1 = C6.72
1995: US$1 = C7.53
1996: US$1 = C8.44
1997: US$1 = C9.13 (March)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MAIN ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARI            Institutional Restructuring Agreement (Acuerdo de Reestructuraci6n Institucional)
BANADES        National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
BANIC          State Bank for Industry and Trade (Banco Nicaraguense de Industria y Comercio)
CACM           Central American Common Market
CORNAP         State Holding Corporation (Junta General de Corporaciones del Sector Pzublico)
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ENITEL         Telecommunications Enterprise (Empresa Nicaraguense de Telecomunicaciones)
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
FNI            National Investment Fund (Fondo Nacional de Inversiones)
1DB            Inter American Development Bank
IDC            Institutional Development Credit
KfW            German Development Agency (Kerditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau)
MCT            Ministry of Construction and Transport
MIFIN          Ministry of Finance
OECF           Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PETRONIC       State Petroleum Company (Empresa Nicaragfiense del Petr6leo)
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PSRC           Public Sector Reform Credit
TELCOR         Telecommunications Corporation (Corporaci6n Micaraguense de Telecomunicaciones)
UCRESEP        Project Management Unit for the Public Sector Reform Program (Unidad Coordinadora
para la Reforma del Sector P0iblico)
UNDP           United Nations Development Progranime
Vice President:       Shahid Javed Burki
Director:             Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Staff member:         Ian Bannon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................. .       .-.
PART I: Program Implementation Assessment
Background .................................................................. .......1.......
A  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives           .       .        .1..........I
B. Achievement of Objectives .........                         .         .        2
Macroeconomic Framework ..............                                       2
Reformn of the State .............                                           2
Fmancial Sector Reform .............................................. ..............5
Private Sector Development ..............7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program           .       .      ...... .................. 10
D. Program Sustainability                ...                       ....................... 10
E. IDA Performance .................    ................................................................. 10
F. Borrower Performance                            . . .     11
G. Assessment of Outcome                 .         .        .1.............. 1
H Future Operation                   ...1.............. 1
1. Key Lessons Learned .................                                         11
PART II: Statistical Tables
ANNEX A:   Governrent Evaluation of the Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NICARAGUA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (Credit 2631-NI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Economic Recovery Credit to
Nicaragua, for which Credit No. 2631-NI in the amount of SDR42.5 million was approved on June 21,
1994 and made effective on June 29, 1995. ERC II was supplemented by IDA Reflows of SDR5.36
million (Cr. 26311-NI) approved on June 21, 1994, SDR4.40 million (Cr. 26312-NI) approved on
December 8, 1994, and SDR3.9 million (Cr. 26313-NI) approved on December 12, 1995.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1996, compared with the original closing date of December 31,
1995. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by September 1994, the second
and third tranches were released in February and June 1996, respectively. In addition, a total of SDR13.66
million in IDA Reflows were added to ERC II. Cofinancing in the amount of V3,878 million was provided
by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan.  The German Kerditanstalt fir
Wiederaufbau (KfW) provided parallel financing of DM20 million, disbursed at the time of the release of
the second and third tranches of ERC II.
This ICR was prepared by Ian Bannon (Lead Economist of the Central America Department)
based on a report prepared by Mr. Claudio Pardo (Consultant). The ICR was reviewed by Ms. Violeta
Rosenthal (Task Manager for ERC II, Central America Department) and Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
(Director, Central America Department). The Borrower contributed to this ICR by preparing its own
evaluation of the program. A translation of the Government's evaluation is included as Annex A of this
report. OECF, the co-financier, did not submit comments on the ICR.
The ICR draws from the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, and other
material in the files. The report is based on discussions with IDA staff, and on the findings of a mission to
Nicaragua in early December 1996. The mission did not leave an Aide Memoire with the Government,
although it discussed major findings and key lessons.



I



SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
NICARAGUA
Evaluation Summary
i.    When the Government of President Chamorro assumed office in April 1990, following 11 years of
civil war, it faced a highly polarized society and an economy devastated by the conflict and inappropriate
policies. Over the next two years, the Government successfully implemented a comprehensive reform
program, designed to bring hyperinflation and major macro imbalances under control, and begin the longer-
term transition from central planning to market-led development. The initial phase of this program was
supported by IDA's first Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), completed in June 1992. The follow-on
operation (ERC II) was delayed by a political crisis which emerged in the second half of 1992 and
continued throughout 1993. Once the political crisis was resolved in early 1994, IDA moved quickly with
ERC II, which was approved by the Board of Directors on June 21, 1994
ii.    ERC II aimed to support the second phase of the Government's economic reforn program. The
operation had three major components:  public sector reform, increased efficiency in financial
intermediation, and an improved private sector climate. The balance of payments support provided by
ERC II and its associated bilateral financing would allow the Government to plan for a more gradual and
predictable path as the economy adjusted to the expected decline in aid flows. The two main risks
identified were. (i) a breakdown of the political consensus and strong opposition to some of the reforms,
leading to a political crisis, as had happened in 1993; and (ii) weak institutional capacity, which could
delay implementation of reform measures. Political risks proved critical.
iii.    Although throughout program implementation, the Government had some difficulty maintaining
macroeconomic targets, especially in the fiscal area, it largely succeeded in maintaining relative macro
stability (supported by an IMF Staff-Monitored program), especially during the lead up to National
elections in late 1996.  More impressive has been the strong economic recovery during program
implementation, especially after the negative growth and stagnation that characterized the early 1990s.
Key achievements have been: high economic growth over the past two years; a strong export recovery,
including high growth of non-traditional exports; falling unemployment; and a marked reduction in the
country's massive external debt. As the new Administration, inaugurated in January 1997, retakes the
stabilization and adjustment agenda, there are good prospects that Nicaragua's economic recovery will be
mamtained.
iv.    Despite this impressive economic recovery, the ICR rates achievements in macro and sectoral
policies as only partial, due to continuing weaknesses in fiscal policy, remaining problems with the state
banking sector and the still large external imbalances that affect the economy. Achievernent of institutional
and public sector management objectives is also rated as partial, since progress in some of the institutional
reform aspects of the public sector reform program was slower than expected. By far the strongest area
has been private sector development, where achievements are rated as substantial. The reform program
supported by ERC II contributed to a substantial improvement in the business climate, increasing
transparency, strengthening prudential supervision of the financial system, encouraging the adoption of a
modern labor code, improving trade policies and carrying out a large privatization program.



ii                                                                         Evaluation Summary
v.     Based on the achievements of the program, Nicaragua's marked economic recovery and early signs
from the new Admimstration (including some concrete steps already taken) that the stabilization and
adjustment program will be continued and deepened, the ICR rates program sustainability as likely.
vi.   IDA's performance is rated as satisfactory in all aspects. As discussed in the ICR, two aspects of
IDA's performance can be noted. First, it designed the adjustment operation with considerable flexibility,
taking into account Nicaragua's very difficult political environment. Second, with the approval of the
Government, IDA was prepared to engage in a debate and dialogue on the need for adjustment with
Nicaraguan opinion-makers beyond the immediate circle of the Government's economic team. This proved
key in mutmg outright opposition to some of the more difficult reform measures. Borrower performance is
also rated satisfactory in all aspects. Despite Nicaragua's often turbulent and confrontational political
environment, the Government was able to maintain its sights firmly set on the longer-term objectives of the
reform program. Taking all the above factors into account, and the shape of Nicaragua's economy today
compared to when the adjustment program started, this ICR rates the overall outcome as satisfactory
vii.   Key lessons learned flow from the very special and difficult circumstances which confronted
Nicaragua during program implementation. The lessons are not unexpected and have been learned in other
adjustment operations, but they bear restating in the case of Nicaragua.
*  The design of adjustment operations should be flexible. This is important under any circumstance, but
proved critical in the case of Nicaragua where the Government had to deal with a highly polarized and
confrontational political environment. The design of an adjustment program, especially in a difficult
domestic environment, needs to consider the possibility that in the course of program implementation,
the Government may decide on alternative means to meet program objectives.
*  In countries with weak implementation capacity, a high degree of political polarization and weak
democratic institutions, conditionality should focus on a few key priorities.  From  program
identification to appraisal, trade-offs and priorities need to be intensively evaluated and discussed with
the Government, as well as the IMF where structural reforms will be an integral part of an ESAF
program.
*  Where the political discussion in the country specifically questions the aims and rationale for the
adjustment process, IDA should be prepared, at the request and with the express approval of the
Government, to participate in the national dialogue. IDA's willingness to extend the dialogue on
adjustment beyond the Administration and to engage in a dialogue with the opposition on the
alternatives to adjustment proved invaluable in mitigating outright opposition to the reforms.
Interestingly, the second episode of political irnpasse in Nicaragua no longer involved the adjustment
process but focused instead on the relative powers between the Executive and Legislature.
*  Reliance on quick-disbursing adjustment operations to support public sector reformn, especially
institutional restructuring is questionable. Easily monitorable measures such as employment reductions
and privatization are amenable to adjustment conditionality, but the broader aim of modernizing and
radically transforming institutional structures is not well suited to the scope and constraints inherent in
adjustment operations. The inadequacy of the adjustment instrument is exacerbated in countries with
weak institutional capacity.
* The one negative lesson that can be drawn from the ERC II experience involves the Bank's readiness to
work with the Government on alternatives to the closure of BANADES. Although the strategy of



Evaluation Summary                                                                    1II
containment proposed by the Government and accepted by IDA was appropriate at the time that ERC
II was designed and approved, IDA might have been able to move more quickly and effectively when it
started to become clear that the Government would need support in terms of designing a viable
alternative to rural credit. It has only recently began the analytical work that can reach closure on
alternatives to the traditional state development bank model for rural credit.






PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    The Chamorro Government, which came to office in April 1990, designed a stabilization and
structural adjustment program which received broad support from the donor community. Within this
framework, IDA's first Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I) was approved in September 1991 and fully
disbursed m June 1992.1 Following successful completion of ERC I, IDA moved quickly to identify a
follow-on operation, but the process was complicated by a deteriorating political situation in the second
half of 1992 and in 1993. Splits emerged within the Government coalition and between it and the
Sandinista party. In these circumstances, the Government found it difficult to carry forward the second
phase of its stabilization and structural reform programs. Attempted fiscal measures were met with violent
strikes and demonstrations leading to their withdrawal. GDP fell, inflation accelerated, reserves dropped,
and aid flows were interrupted.
2.    During 1993, the donor community, including IDA, continued a dialogue with the Government on
the need to develop a national consensus, and offered to help in the process. Some bilateral donors offered
their good offices to mediate the political conflict; IDA and the IMF participated in a round of discussions
with key opposition and Government figures on the need to continue with the stabilization and adjustment
effort. Partly as a result of these efforts, but also because of a growing realization that the confrontational
politics of 1993 would lead to chaos, the political situation stabilized in the closmg weeks of 1993 and then
began to improve In this improved political climate, IDA and other donors moved quickly to assist the
Government restart the stabilization and adjustment process.
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The Nicaragua Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II) for SDR42.5 million ($60 million
equivalent) was approved by the Board of Directors on June 21, 1994, signed on June 22, 1994 and
became effective on June 29, 1994. It consisted of three tranches, the first at effectiveness of $30 million
and two tranches of $15 million each. ERC II was supplemented by an IDA Reflows credit of SDR5.36
million ($7.6 million) to be disbursed upon effectiveness. ERC II was co-financed by Japan with a $37
million credit. In addition, Germany provided parallel financing of $13.3 million, although it did not
formally co-finance the IDA credit. ERC II supported measures to: (i) reform the State by reducing public
employment, privatization and initiation of a comprehensive and longer-term public sector reform program;
(ii) improve financial intermediation by increasing the efficiency of the public banks and strengthening
prudential supervision; and (iii) improve incentives for private sector activity by increasing transparency,
reducing protection, supporting resolution of property disputes and improving labor policies.
4.    ERC II was designed to deepen the structural reforms supported under ERC I and allow the
Government to carry out an orderly adjustment in response to the expected decline in aid levels, while
establishing the conditions for a revival of private sector-led growth. The balance of payments support
would allow the Government a more gradual and predictable economic adjustment path to reduced aid
flows. The principal risks identified included: (i) a breakdown of the political consensus and strong
opposition to some of the reforms, leading to a political impasse as had occurred in 1993; and (ii) the
Government's weak institutional capacity, which could delay implementation of several components of the
program
1 The Project Completion Report (No. 14892) for the Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2302-NI) was distributed to the Board
on August 10, 1995



2                                                                         Ni caragua ERC II
B. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic Framework
5.    ERC II was processed in parallel with an IMF ESAF arrangement. Major elements of the
Government's program were outlined in the Policy Framework Paper covering 1994-97, presented to the
Board in conjunction with ERC 11. The ERC 1I President's Report also included the Country Assistance
Strategy for Nicaragua.2
6.    Macroeconomic conditions improved considerably during 1994. (Key economic indicators, actuals
and projected, are presented in Table 2.) GDP expanded by 3.3 percent, inflation was reduced to 12.4
percent compared to 19.5 percent in 1993, and gross domestic investment increased by 5 percentage points
of GDP to 25 percent The mam area of disappointment in 1994 was the inability of the public sector to
raise its savings, which at 1.8 percent of GDP remained basically unchanged and fell far short of the 1994
program target of 4 percent. The overall fiscal deficit mcreased from 8.8 percent of GDP in 1993 to 12.4
percent in 1994. The fiscal deterioration continued during the first three quarters of 1995, driven mainly by
expenditure overruns and the poor performance of state enterprises, especially the power company which
was affected by a severe drought. Also, net domestic assets exceeded the program targets due to a
combination of shortfalls in external flows and Central Bank credit expansion to finance economic
recovery. As a result, the IMF decided not to complete the mid-year review of the ESAF, scheduled for
early 1995, and IDA delayed release of the second tranche of ERC II.
7.    From mid-1995 the Government and the Fund worked on developing a set of corrective measures
to bring the ESAF program back on track. A Staff-Monitored Program, which included monthly
performance targets, was agreed in the last quarter of 1995. Performance under this program was
satisfactory and 1995 ended up being an encouraging year for the economy, continuing the recovery that
had begun in 1994. GDP expanded by 4.2 percent, merchandise exports continued to grow strongly, rising
by 50 percent m dollar terms from the previous year, and inflation was reduced somewhat to 11.1 percent.
Perhaps more impressive was the return to fiscal austerity in the last four months of 1995, which made it
possible to achieve public savings of 4 percent of GDP for the year as a whole, exceeding the IMF target,
and to lower the overall fiscal deficit somewhat. Based on this progress, IDA concluded that an
appropriate macroeconomic framework was in place, which pennitted release of the ERC II second tranche
in February 1995
8.    In the first quarter of 1996, the Government reached agreement with the Fund on targets for 1996.
In the second quarter of 1996, the Fund advised that the Staff-Monitored Program remained on track, and
IDA concluded that the macroeconomic framework was consistent with the objectives of the program and
proceeded to approve release of the ERC II third tranche in June 1996. Economic performance in 1996
continued to improve. GDP grew by an impressive 5.5 percent (among the highest in Latin America),
inflation was contained at 12 percent, and merchandise exports expanded by 27 percent in dollar terms.
The Government's efforts to renegotiate its external debt, supported by IDA and other donors, produced a
marked drop in total external debt outstanding, from $10.3 billion in 1995 to $6.1 billion in 1996
Reform of the State
9.    ERC II aimed to continue supporting the process of state reform, initiated under ERC I, focusing
on three key areas: (i) strengthening of the fiscal position by reducing public sector employment through a
labor mobility program; (ii) continuation of the privatization process, covering most of the remaining
nationalized enterprises and bringing private sector capital and management into the telecommunications
sector; and (iii) laying the base and taking initial steps to begin a longer-term process to create an efficient,
smaller and modern public sector.
2 Report No P-6430-NI, May 27, 1994.



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                         3
10.   The Labor Mobility Program. Prior to Board presentation, the Government prepared an action
plan to reduce public sector employment by 13,569 positions over 1994-96, or about 13 percent of all
public sector employees. These targets were to be achieved through attrition and voluntary retrenchments
encouraged by a severance package. The program included safeguards to avoid rehiring and the loss of the
more productive employees. IDA conditionality specified a reduction of 5,000 positions for second tranche
and a cumulative reduction of 7,000 positions by third tranche. The lower IDA target was due to the fact
that the Government's program would cover 30 months, whereas ERC II was designed to be implemented
over 12-18 months. Rather than set detailed quarterly targets and in order to allow flexibility in the
implementation of the labor reduction program, IDA chose the 7,000 figure to measure progress, which
would roughly correspond to the mid-point in the labor mobility program. This inbuilt flexibility was also
prompted by a desire to avoid the common perception which tends to associate public sector reform
programs exclusively with labor retrenchments. This was felt to be especially important in the case of
Nicaragua, given its still fragile political environment and serious unemployment problems.
11.   The labor mobility program had a slow start. By February 1995, the originally projected date for
second tranche release, the employment reduction was only about 1,150 The Government had found some
problems with the original design of the severance arrangements, and therefore introduced modifications to
attract more interest among potential candidates for voluntary separations and to make the program more
effective in targeting the least needed positions. By the time of second tranche release early in 1996, the
Government had clearly met the ERC II targets and was well on the way to meeting the 7,000 required for
third tranche. Official figures show that from January 1994 to November 1996, public sector employment
had fallen by 8,438 positions, of which 3,798 were in the Central Government and the rest in state
enterpnses.3
12.   The Privatization Program. During the first phase of adjustment, CORNAP, a holding company
was created and charged with the divestiture of 351 state enterprises, most of them nationalized during the
Sandinista Administration. By the time of ERC II, CORNAP still held 72 enterprises, of which 33 had
been brought to the pomt of sale by Board presentation. By second tranche, CORNAP was to have
brought an additional 33 enterprises to the point of sale or closure. Although the objective was to complete
the process initiated by CORNAP, ERC II left a cushion of 6 enterprises to allow some flexibility in
meeting the conditions in the event that unforeseen legal problems delayed or impeded full divestiture. In
addition, ERC II aimed to. (i) divest 9 out of 17 enterprises under the Ministry of Construction and
Transport (MCT); (ii) divest two enterprises in the energy sector (ENIGAS and LUBNICA); (m) bring to
the point of sale 40 percent of the telecommunications company TELCOR, including the transfer of
management control to the foreign partner; and (iii) bring to the point of sale some of the commercial
operations of PETRONIC, the state petroleum company, including its gasoline distribution operations.
13.   CORNAP, MCT and Energy. By Board presentation, the Government had divested 2 enterprises
in the energy sector and 8 MCT enterprises, leaving only one additional MCT enterprise to divest by
second tranche. By the time of third tranche release, IDA determined that of the 66 CORNAP enterprises
to be divested, the Government had fully divested or closed 63 and had divested a majority interest in 3
others MCT had completed divestiture of 10 enterprises.
14.    TELCOR   Although the privatization of TELCOR was mamly seen as a way of improving
services and coverage, and to give a strong signal to foreign investors, the Government also saw it as an
opportunity to help improve the property resolution process by making the compensation bonds more
attractive. It planned to use part of the privatization proceeds to back the government bonds issued as
3The total reduction would have been about 2,650 higher had the privatization of TELCOR taken place as planned.



4                                                                         Nicaragua ERCII
compensation to owners of properties that could not be returned. As part of the reform program, the
Government aimed to create a regulatory agency, able to supervise the new private sector operator.
15.   At the time of appraisal, the TELCOR divestiture process was well advanced, with 9 reputable
mternational companies having been pre-qualified. Progress continued until the third quarter of 1994,
when the regulatory powers of TELCOR were transferred to a newly-created agency. At the same time
ENITEL, the new service provider and company to be privatized, came into existence and had prepared
drafts of all the bidding documents and the management concession. In the fourth quarter of 1994, the
Government decided to send to the Assembly a new Telecommunications Law, to improve the regulatory
framework. Although the existing legal framework permitted the privatization of TELCOR, it was obsolete
and did not provide for a competitive regime for the future (after the end of the exclusivity period).
Unfortunately, this privatization process came to a stand-still in late 1994, when the country was again
engulfed in a political crisis, this time centered on proposed Constitutional amendments. During the
following months Constitutional issues dominated the political agenda, until mid-1995 when a political
agreement was reached which enabled enactment of selected amendments. Included in the constitutional
changes was the provision that privatization of State assets would now require approval by the Assembly.
The ENITEL privatization process resumed soon after the amendments came into effect. In July 1995, the
Assembly passed the Telecommunications Law and in November 1995 the Law to Incorporate Individuals
in the Operation and Expansion of Public Telecommunications Services (required under the reformed
Constitution). The Government proceeded to advertise the sale of ENITEL (January 12 in The Financial
Times and January 13 in The Economist) specifying the privatization process and the calendar to be
followed. The announcement specified that the award notification would take place no later than June 10,
1996. On the basis of the new legal framework and the Government's public call for bids on the ENITEL
privatization, IDA considered that the Government had complied with the condition of making progress in
the implementation of the TELCOR Privatization Plan.
16.   By the time of third tranche release, it was found that the process was further advanced and due
diligence had been largely completed. Although at the time the opening of bids had been postponed to July,
the Government maintained its commitment to proceed with the privatization process. Ultimately, the
opening of bids was postponed a number of times, apparently at the request of a key bidder. Finally, on
October 3 1996, rather than announcing the winner of the bidding process, the Government decided to
postpone the sale of ENITEL shares due to the lack of substantial interest among potential foreign
investors. The Government had been led to understand that there would in effect be only one bidder and its
offer price would be extremely low. In retrospect, it appeared that investors considered that the Law to
Incorporate Individuals in the Operation and Expansion of Telecommunications Services contained a
number of onerous conditions, especially those related to investment obligations and labor flexibility. The
fact that Presidential elections were imminent may also have played a role. Also, in the year of delay there
was a noticeable change in the international climate, as new privatization opportunities were opening up
and deregulation in the U.S. and Europe was, reportedly, leading major players to reassess their expansion
plans in foreign markets. In the event, the Government felt it had no option but to leave the privatization
process to the new Administration that would take office in early 1997.
17    PETRONIC. The conditionality associated with PETRONIC was quite specific. At the time of
appraisal, it was felt that the full privatization of the company was not politically feasible, because it had
an import monopoly for hydrocarbons and was vested with regulatory functions for the sector. However, it
was decided that the process could be advanced by partial privatization of some commercial activities of
PETRONIC, especially its gasoline distribution operations. By the time of third tranche release, the
Government had deregulated the gasoline market and private companies were in charge of the bulk of the
distribution process. PETRONIC by then was playing a rather small role in gasolme distribution and the
regulatory functions were vested in the National Energy Institute, independent of PETRONIC. Moreover,
the Government proposed to proceed with the full privatization of PETRONIC and mdicated that since
under the modified Constitution even the partial privatization of PETRONIC would require legislative



Nicaragua ERC 11                                                                       5
approval, it preferred to seek Assembly approval for the full privatization of the company. IDA accepted
that the full pnvatization of PETRONIC was preferable to the privatization of only gasoline distribution,
and that given the Assembly's calendar, approval of the privatization would be lengthy and extend well
beyond the life of ERC II. In March 1996, the Government submitted to the Assembly a Law for the
Privatization of PETRONIC. On this basis, IDA agreed to seek a waiver to this condition for third tranche
release.
18.   Public Sector Reform. Because of the long-term nature of public sector reforrm, ERC II would
concentrate on defining the process and the initial stages of implementation. It was understood that the
process would have to be continued under a new Administration that would inevitably want some flexibility
in defimng its own public sector reform program. In addition, the Government recognized its weak
institutional capacities and requested IDA technical assistance to bolster the capabilities of the management
unit in charge of the design and coordination of the broad-based reform program. In March 1995, IDA
approved an Institutional Development Credit ($23 million) to support the public sector reform effort
which would continue beyond the life of ERC II.
19.   As part of Board presentation conditions, the Government: (i) prepared a detailed policy statement
outlining the overall State reform process and its broad elements, imbedded in its Letter of State Reform;
and (ii) created the Project Management Unit within the Ministry of Finance (UCRESEP).
20.   The PSRP got off to a good start. In October 1994, the Government issued Presidential Decree
94-44 establishing the goals and management structure for a 5-year reform program. The Decree created a
high-level executive comnuttee, CERAP, m charge of guiding the reform process. This initiated a process
of negotiation with various Ministries, state agencies and other Government institutions, to reach
agreements on detailed plans for institutional restructuring and a schedule for achieving specific goals.
This effort provided a consistent direction for the reform program and helped with overall coordination of
the various donor efforts that were supporting public sector reforms. By the time of second tranche,
CERAP had signed the first Institutional Restructuring Agreement (ARI) with MCT and was making
progress in the negotiation of several others. By the time of third tranche in mid-1996, CERAP had signed
an additional ARI with the Social Security Institute. In addition, progress continued with the initiation of
restructuring of several ministries and the drafting of key legislation, including the General Financial
Management Law. Progress had been achieved in the design of a new civil service legal framework,
including the proposed Senior Technical and Management Service, and initial steps to reform financial
management practices, although implementation of the two ARls was slower than expected. In particular,
the procurement effort to hire the consulting teams to provide the technical assistance to implement the
ARIs took much longer than anticipated, due largely to local inexperience with international procurement
practices. On balance, however, IDA concluded that satisfactory progress was being achieved in the
implementation of the overall public sector reform program.
Financial Sector Reform
21.   The process of financial liberalization was well advanced at the conclusion of ERC I. Two
important problems remained, however. Although private banks had quickly emerged, the financial system
continued to be dominated by two large state banks, BANADES and BANIC. Under ERC I the
Government had initially sought to transform BANADES into a small, pass-through agency, channeling
externally-funded lImes of credit, but the political obstacles to effectively closing BANADES proved
formidable. It therefore opted for a strategy of refonning the state banks, with technical support from IDB
for BANADES. Despite major recapitalizations and restructuring, these banks remained heavy money
losers and continued to have dismal loan recovery rates.
22.   The issue of what to do about the two state banks was extensively debated internally within IDA
and with the Government. In addition, the problem was also discussed with the IMF, as the poor financial
position of the banks posed a serious threat to the stabilization program under preparation. Within IDA



6                                                                         Nicaragua ERCII
some held the view that, smce the effort under ERC I to reform the two banks, especially BANADES, had
not worked, ERC II should either seek the divestiture of the two banks (through closure or, if feasible,
privatization), or steer clear from the issue. The Government had taken the position that while it
recognized the inefficiency of the banks and the threat to the stabilization program, it felt it could not
master the needed support for their closure/privatization. This was due to two reasons: (i) politically it
could not push for the closure of the banks, especially BANADES which was the more serious problem,
because it carried too much weight in the banking system; and (ii) the Constitution specifically required the
Government to guarantee the existence of state banks. The legal interpretation of the Constitutional
requirement was not entirely clear, but the Government felt any attempt to divest itself of the banks would
leave it open to a Constitutional challenge.
23.   Instead, the Government proposed to keep the two banks under close monitonng to avoid major
expansion, while allowing private banks to grow. As private banking expanded, the state banks would
become increasingly marginal, eventually making it politically easier to close or privatize. In the end, IDA
took the position that while ERC II could not achieve a lasting solution to the state bank problem, it would
support the Government's strategy of containment, provided that there would be no recapitalization of the
state banks with public money or revaluation of assets and that the state banks would be subject to the
prudential norms issued by the Superintendency. It was felt that this would provide some breathing space
while the legal issues were clarified and other options explored (such as the partial privatization of
BANIC). In addition, ERC II required the implementation of an action plan to strengthen prudential
supervision, including issuing revised prudential norms on capital adequacy, portfolio classification and
portfolio concentration.
24.   No efforts were made to recapitalize the two state banks, but BANADES and BANIC continued to
have serious loan recovery problems. External audits confirmed that the need to make loan-loss provisions
made them effectively insolvent. The Supermtendency of the Financial System (SBFI) monitored these
institutions effectively, but since neither the option of recapitalization or outright closure due to bankruptcy
was available, it had no option but to exempt the state banks from prudential norms for two and a half
years. At the same time the two banks were put under restructuring programs monitored by SBFI and
agreed with IDA, IDB and the IMF The restructuring programs tried to make progress beyond IDA's
containment strategy with two key aims in mmd: (i) substantially downsizing BANADES, leaving it as a
very small financial intermediary focused only on small-scale farmers; and (ii) privatize BANIC through a
capital increase from private investors, who would also have operating control of the bank. As a first step
in this process, in early 1996 non-performing assets in the two banks (nearly 40 percent of their portfolios)
were transferred to a newly-created collection agency (COBANICSA). The further downsizing of
BANADES and the actual privatization of BANIC were to be supported through a proposed Public Sector
Reform Credit (PSRC) which IDA had began preparing as a follow-on to ERC II. As the elections
approached both the proposed PSRC and the state bank reform program were postponed.
25.   Toward the end of the ERC II period, the Government began raising the issue of alternative credit
delivery systems to reach small-scale farmers. It argued that it could not solve the BANADES problem
unless it could put in place an alternative rural credit scheme targeted on small-scale farmers. IDA
responded by: (i) organizing a local workshop to explore rural credit options in early 1995; and (ii)
preparing a rural credit pilot program under the ongoing Land Management and Agricultural Technology
Project.
26    SBFI has played a key role in improving the prudential supervision of the financial system. Its
supervisory functions have been extended to cover the stock exchange and insurance companies. A General
Bankmg Law is currently before the Assembly, which would replace the old legislation dating to the 1960s,
and would further strengthen SBFI's supervisory and regulatory functions. Despite this progress, much
remains to be done to strengthen SBFI and prudential supervision n Nicaragua.



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                          7
Private Sector Development
27.    There were four main objectives under the private sector development component: (i) resolution of
property rights disputes, in order to improve security of land tenure and the private sector climate; (ii)
provision of a more stable and transparent policy environment for the private sector, by reducing
ministerial discretionality In changing tax and fiscal policies and the creation of new commercial
enterprises; (iii) promotion of export growth and efficient import substitution, by reducing the level and
dispersion of nominal protection and creating a more transparent and effective export incentive system; and
(iv) promotion of greater labor productivity by ensuring flexibility in the operation of the labor market.
28.    Property Rights.  The long-standing problem of inadequate property rights guarantees in
Nicaragua, which was exacerbated durng the Sandinista Administration, presented the Chamorro
Government with a very complicated problem. In 1992, following a major information gathering effort, a
comprehensive admimstrative procedure to address property disputes was established. The National
Review Commission was created to review claims by previously confiscated owners and to recommend
equitable solutions, and the Office of Territorial Ordering was established to review the legitimacy of
property assignments during the transitional period between February and April of 1990. Also, the
Government created the Office of Quantification of Compensation, to determine just compensation amounts
for those whose properties could not be returned. This scheme, which provided compensation via dollar-
indexed govemment bonds, was intended as a faster administrative solution and not as a replacement for
legal recourse, which remained an option for claimants
29.    By end 1993, the Govenmment had made significant inroads in the resolution of property disputes
but the problem remained large. At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that there were about 5,400
claimants involvmg more than 16,000 disputed properties. The problem was exacerbated by the fact that a
large number of disputes involved U.S. citizens. Although IDA recognized the critical importance of
resolving the property issue in Nicaragua, because of the domestic and mtemational politicization of the
issue, it was felt that specific conditionality and targets on the resolution of disputed cases would be
counterproductive and would merely add to its politicization.4 Instead, ERC II supported the process
through: (i) the establishment of a mechanism at the Ministry of Finance to carry out random inspections
to verify compliance with adopted procedures to resolve property conflicts, and to report deviations for
their correction; and (ii) the commissioning of a study to analyze potential new uses for the compensation
bonds, which could raise their value in secondary markets and thus be more attractive for claimants whose
property could not be returned Actions expected before releasmg the second tranche were a satisfactory
implementation of the verification process and the completion of the study on potential uses for the
compensation bonds. The third tranche was made contingent on having implemented the recommendations
agreed on in the context of the study.
30.    There was substantial progress made on both topics during program implementation. A new Vice-
Ministry was created in the Ministry of Finance exclusively in charge of addressing problems related to
property conflicts and disputes, including a unit to carry out the inspections agreed in ERC II. UNDP, IDB
and other donors supported the random inspection scheme. The Government actually commissioned two
studies to enhance the value of the bonds, which provided the basis for the Ley Especial de Valorizaci6n de
Bonos de Pago por lndemnmzaci6n, approved by the Assembly in July 1994.
31.    As a result of this Law, the maturity of the compensation bonds was reduced from 20 to 15 years,
their interest rate increased and uses extended, so that they could be used also as guarantees in public
works contracting and collateral for bank loans, and as means of payment for settling liabilities with the tax
office and state enterprises. Despite the new enhancements, the compensation bonds rose only moderately
in price in the secondary market after the passage of the new legislation, so further ways to increase their
The Government, however, included its own targets in its Letter of Development Policy.



8                                                                            Nicaragua ERC II
market attraction were sought by the Government.s Thus, in the context of the ENITEL privatization, the
Government decided that part of the privatization proceeds would be used to buy zero-coupon U.S.
Treasury bonds to back the compensation bonds. This would place the compensation bonds in the category
of "Brady bonds", a class of heavily traded instruments in the mternational financial market today.
32.   As of October 1996, the Government had issued the equivalent of $501 million in compensation
bonds, of which $120.5 million, or 24 percent of the total, had been redeemed by bondholders through the
various options open to them. A significant portion of today's outstanding compensation bonds are held as
part of the portfolios of international investors. Although not a condition in ERC II, the Government also
made substantial progress m the resolution of actual property right disputes. At the end of October 1996,
90.8 percent of the disputes involving agricultural land were settled, 94.6 per cent of those involving family
homes, and 88.3 percent of those disputes related to just home sites. Of the politically sensitive 2,293 cases
involving properties of U.S. citizens, Government figures for October 1996 showed that only 573 cases
remained unresolved, with a total claim value of $51 million.
33.    Discretion in Economic Policy. In Nicaragua, the President had ample discretionary powers to
change taxes and regulations. At the time of program design, the President had delegated many of these
powers to the Ministerial level in an effort to facilitate and expedite the policy and incentive changes
required to eliminate the policy-mduced distortions inherited from the Sandinista era. However, this was
causing significant uncertainty m the private sector, as the discretionality and lack of transparency was
undermimng investor confidence. In order to improve the business climate and ensure that there was a level
and transparent playing field for the private sector, it was agreed that it was time to sharply reduce the
discretionary powers vested in the different Ministries Thus, as a Board condition, it was agreed that: (i)
to be legally binding, any changes in tax and fiscal policies had to be published in the Official Gazette,
except in cases offorce majeure, in which event it had to be published in at least one daily newspaper of
broad circulation, (ii) the powers of Ministries and government agencies to change tax and fiscal policies
were abrogated, and simultaneously elevated to the Presidency; and (iii) the powers of Ministries and
govermnent agencies to create new commercial enterpnses were eliminated. These policy changes have
been maintamed contributing to increased transparency and an improved business climate. Furthermore,
the Constitutional amendment of 1995 vested in the Assembly most of the powers until then held by the
Executive on tax matters.
34.    Trade Reform. Trade liberalization and lower protection was at the core of the Government's
program of structural reform supported by ERC I. Although substantial advances were made to reduce
nominal protection and render it more uniform, at the time of ERC U appraisal the level and dispersion of
tariff rates remained high. The rate of import protection at the time, including tariffs and specific import
consumption taxes, ranged between 10 and 40 percent, with a few exceptions below 10 percent. Virtually
all trade-related non-tariff barriers had already been abolished. Nonetheless, the pace of advance had been
slower than that promised by the Government in the Letter of Development Policy agreed for ERC I where
the maximum nominal rate of import protection was set at 20 percent. During this time, Nicaragua had
agreed with its partners m the Central American Common Market (CACM) on a slower pace of tariff
adjustments, setting the longer-term objective of a maximum tariff of 20 percent for year-end 1999. IDA
accepted the program agreed under CACM.
35.   Another source of concern at the time of appraisal was the temporary export promotion mechanism
introduced in 1991 and modified in 1992. The scheme established tariff exemptions on inputs and capital
goods for all exporters, and a generous package of income tax relief plus direct subsidies in the form of
tax-rebate certificates for non-traditional exporters. The 1992 amendment to the export scheme had
5Today, the discount rate implicit in the market value of the compensation bonds appears reasonably m line with the interest
rates paid on similar-risk dollar-indexed financial instruments in Nicaragua. This suggests that to further increase the value
of the compensation bonds, alternative options that actually reduce Nicaraguan nsk have to be explored.



Nicaragua ERC 1I                                                                       9
extended the timetable of benefits for non-traditional exporters, which gradually diminished through 1997,
to be discontinued at the end of that year.
36.   ERC II sought to make further progress in promoting export growth and efficient import
substitution through a reduction in the level and dispersion of nominal protection, and by creating a more
transparent and effective export incentive system. More specifically, the Government agreed that before
Board presentation it would approve a satisfactory phased tariff reduction program reaching an all-
inclusive nominal protection ceiling of 37 percent by mid-1995 and 20 percent by 1999. This condition
was met by Decree 24-90 of May 1994, which specified a calendar of tariff reductions in line with the
program agreed with CACM. The next set of actions by the Government included two conditions for third
tranche release: (i) satisfactory progress in implementing the import tariff reduction program, in particular
achieving a nominal protection ceiling of 37 percent (except for 8 products referred to as the fiscal
industries, which accounted for a large share of fiscal revenues); and (ii) preparation of an action plan to
replace the existing export promotion mechanism, either by a duty drawback system or a temporary
admission regime.
37.   In January 1996 the Government reduced the nominal protection ceiling on imports to 35 percent,
except for the 8 fiscal industry products. It thus met the first part of third tranche conditionality. As to the
duty drawback system and the temporary admission regime, the Government studied and rejected them as
practical alternatives to promote non-traditional exports. It estimated that it lacked the capacity and could
not afford the costs of administering such systems. Instead, it opted for the simpler strategy of drastically
lowering tariffs on inputs. As a general rule, inputs are subject to a 5 percent stamp tax plus a 5 percent
import tariff, the latter only for those coming from outside the CACM. The Government sent tax reform
legislation to the Assembly in 1996, including a provision to lower these tariffs to 1 percent, but failed to
gain approval. In May 1997, however, the current Admimstration succeeded in passing a new tax package,
including the proposed trade reforms.
38.   The expansion of Nicaraguan exports has been substantial in the last few years. They went up in
value from some $267 million in 1993 to an estimated $635 million in 1996, the period covered by ERC II.
The growth of non-traditional exports has been the most impressive, as illustrated by last year's
performance, when they accounted for some 47 percent of the total, after having a net gain over 1995 of
about $104 million.
39.   Labor Market Reform.  While faster output growth was considered essential to address
unemployment and underemployment, the Government sought also to promote greater labor productivity
and more flexible labor markets. The Labor Code in effect at the time of ERC II appraisal was not unduly
restrictive, but modifications had been under discussion in the Assembly for some time. The Government
felt that some of the proposals being made could result in an extension of troubling privileges already
enjoyed by a small segment of the labor force, comprising mainly workers in the public sector and some of
the newly-privatized state enterprises. If enacted, it was felt that the changes could seriously jeopardize the
structural reform effort, by imposing stronger rigidities on labor mobility and making it more difficult for
private firms to compete at an international level. The Government and IDA agreed that a more modern
Labor Code would be needed in the future but that this was not the time to initiate what would be a
politically-difficult process. The Government was prepared to veto any modifications of the existing Labor
Code that went in that direction, in particular those changes that imposed excessive restrictions on the
ability of employers to hire or fire employees. In this context, the Government wanted to have the backing
of IDA. To that end, it was agreed that the Government prior to Board presentation would prepare a
detailed Letter of Labor Policy stating the policy and objectives concerning the functioning of labor markets
in Nicaragua. Compliance with this Policy Letter was made a condition for all tranche releases.
40.   On October 1994, the National Assembly approved a new Labor Code containing provisions that
the Executive opposed, so in January of 1995 it proceeded to partially veto the proposed legislation. The



10                                                                        Nicaragua ERC II
main concem was that the changes would lead to a deterioration in labor-employer relations and growing
rigidities in the labor market. Several months of negotiations followed until a compromise was reached
among all interested parties. The new Labor Code was published in the National Gazette at the end of
October 1996. As a result of the negotiations, some of the concepts m the new Labor Code do not totally
agree with those contamed in the Letter of Labor Policy, but by and large Nicaragua now has a modern
body of labor legislation in place. Unemployment, although still high, has fallen steadily, from 20.4
percent in 1993 to 16.1 percent in 1996.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program
41.   The President's Report recognized that an important risk for implementation of ERC II was a
breakdown of the political consensus, although it foresaw this as coming from opposition to the reform
program. The risk proved real but it emerged from an unexpected quarter. In February 1995, the
Assembly approved a set of Constitutional reforms which essentially aimed to redraw the balance of power
between the Executive and the Legislature The Executive opposed the reforms and refused to promulgate
them. The Assembly published the Constitutional amendments but the Executive did not recognize them
and maintained that the old Constitution remained in force. Over the next four months, the country was
enmeshed m a full-blown Constitutional cnsis, which dommated the Government's attention. A negotiated
settlement was reached in the third quarter of 1995 and important Constitutional amendments were enacted.
The political crisis and its aftermath had two important effects on ERC II. First, the political impasse
delayed overall program implementation as the Government attempted to resolve the Constitutional crisis.
Second, one of the amendments specified that privatization of State assets would now require approval by
the Legislature. As explained above, this new requirement affected the privatization of ENITEL and
PETRONIC.
D. Program Sustainability
42.   Program sustainability is considered likely. This assessment is based on IDA's preliminary
discussions with the new Administration. The Government has indicated broad agreement with the
structural reforms supported by ERC II and its interest in deepening the adjustment process  A key
component of the Government's reform program will be public sector reform and our current policy
dialogue is focusing on the design of the reform program and further efforts to reduce the size of the State.
As a first step, UCRESEP has been placed under the Vice-President's Office to give the process increased
political backing. The Government has also announced continuation of the Labor Mobility Program
targeting the elimination of at least 3,000 positions during the rest of 1997. Our dialogue on the financial
sector has concentrated on the issue of the state banks, with the Government having agreed to close
BANADES and proceed with a partial privatization of BANIC. In addition, IDA is working with the
Government on design of an alternative rural credit scheme that would substitute for the role of,
BANADES. In the area of privatization, the Government has requested technical assistance from IDA in
order to redesign the ENITEL privatization process and get it back on track. The Government has
indicated it supports the privatization of PETRONIC, while also stating its intention to proceed with
privatization or concessioning of ports and to attract private participation in the power sector. In terms of
import tariffs, the Assembly recently passed legislation to reduce the tariff ceiling to 10 percent by end-
1999. IDA is continuing discussions on a follow-on adjustment operation to support the Government's
reform program.
E. IDA Performance
43    IDA's overall performance is considered satisfactory. IDA moved quickly after ERC I with the
identification of a follow-on operation. Although political events delayed preparation of ERC II, IDA
maintained the focus on the new operation and was thus ready to move quickly as soon as the political
impasse was resolved. IDA performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory,



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                       1 1
as it carefully evaluated options with the Government, IMF and other donors, and appropriately focused on
the issues that appeared as priorities for Nicaragua at the time. Drawing lessons from recent adjustment
operations in the Region, it avoided the temptation to overload ERC II with an excessive number of detailed
conditions and exercised considerable flexibility in assessing overall compliance with program objectives.
Performance in supervision was also satisfactory with appropriate staffing and effort. The one weakness in
IDA's performance relates to the issue of the state banks. Although the concern over the design of
alternative rural credit systems did not emerge until after ERC II had been approved, IDA could have
either: (i) foreseen the issue; or (ii) once it emerged, taken a more pro-active stance to assist the
Government. While agreeing to the Government's containment strategy, IDA could have also moved in
parallel through ESW to assist the Government design an alternative rural credit system.
F. Borrower Performance
44.   Borrower performance is considered satisfactory. Preparation work involved close collaboration
with IDA and a strong commitment to the continuation of the adjustment program initiated under ERC I.
Despite considerable political volatility, a difficult external environment and weak implementation capacity,
the Borrower maintained a commendably strong comnitment throughout program implementation.
Covenant compliance was also satisfactory. The waiver for the partial privatization of PETRONIC
resulted from a Government decision to aim instead for full privatization. The failure to complete the
privatization of ENITEL was in large measure due to factors beyond the Government's control.
G. Assessment of Outcome
45.   The overall outcome of the reform program supported by ERC II is considered satisfactory. The
economy has recovered strongly during the ERC II implementation period Noteworthy is the strong
economic growth following the stagnation of the early 1990s, the continuing export recovery with high
growth of non-traditional exports, the improved business environment and the sharp fall in Nicaragua's
massive external debt. Although the country's stabilization and adjustment agenda remams formidable, the
economy is in far better shape today than at the end of 1993, when many in IDA and the donor community
despaired over Nicaragua's development prospects.
H. Future Operation
46.   Following completion of ERC II, IDA and the Government identified a one tranche adjustment
operation (PSRC) focusing on public sector reform and the state banks. Although durmg the first half of
1996 the Government advanced considerably in preparation of this operation-including draft legislation to
reform the tax system, further steps to deepen the public sector modernization process, establishment of a
collection agency to recover arrears in the state banks and a detailed plan for the partial privatization of
BANIC-the plans were overtaken by the proximity of the general elections in late 1996. In particular,
approval of the Government's proposed tax package, which was supported by the proposed PSRC and was
a key element for a reactivation of the Fund's ESAF program, was held up in the Assembly. As mentioned
above, IDA is currently preparing a new adjustment operation with the current Administration, which will
likely focus on public sector reform, state banks and further measures to improve the business climate
I. Key Lessons Learned
47.   Key lessons learned flow from the very special and difficult circumstances which confronted
Nicaragua during program implementation. The lessons are not unexpected and have been learned in other
adjustmnent operations, but they bear restating in the case of Nicaragua.
* The design of adjustment operations should be flexible. This is important under any circumstance, but
proved critical in the case of Nicaragua where the Government had to deal with a highly polarized and



12                                                                         Nicaragua ERC II
confrontational political environment. The design of an adjustment program, especially in a difficult
domestic environment, needs to consider the possibility that in the course of program implementation,
the Government may decide on alternative means to meet program objectives.
*  In countries with weak implementation capacity, a high degree of political polarization and weak
democratic institutions, conditionality should focus on a few key priorities.  From  program
identification to appraisal, trade-offs and priorities need to be intensively evaluated and discussed with
the Government, as well as the IMF where structural reforms will be an integral part of an ESAF
program.
* Where the political discussion in the country specifically questions the aims and rationale for the
adjustment process, IDA should be prepared, at the request and with the express approval of the
Government, to participate in the national dialogue. IDA's willingness to extend the dialogue on
adjustment beyond the Admimstration and to engage in a dialogue with the opposition on the
alternatives to adjustment proved invaluable in mitigating outright opposition to the reforms.
Interestingly, the second episode of political impasse in Nicaragua no longer involved the adjustment
process but focused instead on the relative powers between the Executive and Legislature.
*  Reliance on quick-disbursing adjustment operations to support public sector reform, especially
institutional restructuring is questionable. Easily monitorable measures such as employment reductions
and privatization are amenable to adjustment conditionality, but the broader aim of modernizing and
radically transforming institutional structures is not well suited to the scope and constraints inherent in
adjustment operations. The inadequacy of the adjustment instrument is exacerbated in countries with
weak institutional capacity.
* The one negative lesson that can be drawn from the ERC II experience involves the Bank's readiness to
work with the Government on alternatives to the closure of BANADES. Although the strategy of
containment proposed by the Government and accepted by IDA was appropriate at the time that ERC
II was designed and approved, IDA might have been able to move more quickly and effectively when it
started to become clear that the Government would need support in terms of designing a viable
alternative to rural credit. IDA has only recently began the analytical work that can reach closure on
alternatives to the traditional state development bank model for rural credit.



Nicaragua ERCII                                                                              13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Key Economic Indicators: Projected and Actuals
Table 3:      Related IDA Credits
Table 4:      Program Timetable
Table 5:      Program Financing
Table 6.a.    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 6.b:    ERC II IDA Disbursement Profile
Table 7:      Dates of Tranche Releases
Table 8:      Studies Included in the Program
Table 9:      Status of Legal Covenants and Conditionality
Table 10:     IDA Missions
Table 11:     IDA Resources: Staff Inputs



14                                                                                Nicaragua ERC II
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Aeievenmntat objectives    Substantial        Partial         Negligible     Not appcable
Macro policies                                     V/
Sector policies                                    /
Financial objectives                                                                  V/
Institutional development                          4
Physical objectives                                                                   /
Poverty reduction                                                                     V
Gender issues                                                                         v
Other social objectives                                                               4
Environmental objectives                                                              4
Public sector management
Private sector development        /
t  kp^FR   _~~~~~~~~I...... .......           S
[D. Program susftainabW#ly       Liel            Unilkely     ~ Ulet
C. Bank perfornance             Highly         Sat actory         Deficient
Identification                                  V
Preparation assistance                           4
Appraisal                                       /
Supervision                                     v
A  Borrower-performance          ihySatisactory                   Defkicnta
Preparation                                     V
Implementation                                  4
Covenant compliance                             V
E. Assesd Wt of 'attnm                     .i .          .r           dactery j       . nstisctot 
. . .~~~~~gaifatr                                                        unsasfaetewr-



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                                           15
Table 2: Key Economic Indicators: Projected and Actuals, 1990-96
Actuat                ERC fI  Adual  IR3lC    Actu    E1 CU  AP$uai
tw~~~~~~~~1 9               1!9% ,- 1    4 .... 1" ! .5.; . ......   .94. X......  -t ------ t
GDP Groth (%)               -01      -0 2     0 4     -0 2     2.0      3.3      3 0     4.2      4.5      5.5
Inflation (end year, %)   13,500     866      3 5     19 5    10.0    124        7,7    111       6.0    12.1
Gross Dom. Investment'      19 3    20 1    18.0    20 2    21.5    25 0    21.4    26 9    21.2    27 6
o/wPnvate'                  180     131       97      90      11.1    10.4    10.6    106        10.1    13.4
Overall Fiscal Balance2    -29 4     -7 7    -8 4     -8 8     -8 &    -12 4    -6.8   -11.1    -6.3   -13.4
Current Account Balance2   -35 6    -48 9    -59 3    -48 0    -48.1   -54 0    -33 2    -37 5    -32.9   -32 5
Exports3                  330 6   272 4   223 1   267 0   291 0   351 2   330.0   526 4   368.3   670 1
inports3                  567 4   668 6   771 2   668 4   658 0   783 8   690.0   865 0   714.0  1023 8
ExtDebtOutstanding4         10 7     10 7    11 1     10 5     12 6    11 0     12 4    10 3     12.7      6.1
Projections are form the President's Report
1 AsashareofGDP
2 As a share of GDP, excluding grants
3 Merchandise
4 Billions of US$
Table 3: Related IDA Credits
Credits                                                      AimIwit    Year of           Status
......_.___._.......____._.. (SDR m)   A~pp.R..Ap. A1       (_S
ERC I (2302)                  Support the Government's       83 5         09/26/91        Completed
structural adjustment
program
Institutional Development     Improvement in delivery of     15.7         03/16/95        Ongoing
Credit (2690)                 public services and
increasing public savings
Table 4: Program Timetable
Steps in Prgram Cycle           | Date Planned              Actual Dates
Identification (Imtlal Executive      01/15/93              01/15/93
Project Summary)
Preparation                           03/05/93              03/15/93
Appraisal                             06/03/93              04/04/94
Negotiations                                na           07/23-25/94
Board Presentation                          na              06/21/94
Signing                                     na              06/22/94
Effectiveness                               na              06/29/94
Credit closing                              na              06/30/96
na not available in project files



16                                                                                                                                Nicaragua ERC II
Table 5: Program Financing
btS                                ~~~~~Appr*i$"1 esttim*                    Atal WS$lm
(UgsSn)
IDA credit                                                60 0                               61.7
IDA reflows                                                7 6                                19.9
OECF (Japan)                                              60 0                              37.0'
KfW (Germany)                                             12 0                               13.32
Government of Sweden                                       9.0                                   --
Govemment of Switzerland                                   6.0                                   --
Total                                                   154.6                               131 9
I Cofmancing
2 Parallel financing
Table 6.a: Credit Disbursements (US$ million)
PY9    FY97
Appraisal estimate
*   Annual                                           52.6                         15.0                        0.0
*   Cumulative                                       52 6                         67.5                       0.0
Actual disbursements
.   Annual                                           31.0                         30.7                       0.0
.   Cumulative                                       31.0                         61 7                     61.7
IDA Reflows actuals                                    7.9                          6.4                      5 6
Table 6.b: ERC II IDA Disbursement Profile
IRVC                 FV#4 f        low-s   FM9 Reflows   W96 fows-
.    se                   >31 }                     (311)                      (2631>                       Total
.............. .................. ................................... ..... ..................................... ..... ....................... ;...................... .. ;.................... ........  ;.......................
O)rijtina                           60.4)                        7.6                       6.3                        5.8                     79.7
.......... ........................... ........ ................ .................. ..... ........ ........................... ............ ............................ ............ ........ ..................... ................... .....................
FY95                                31.0                         7.9                       0.0                        0.4                     38.9
7/94                                19.9                                                                                                       19.9
9/94                                10.6                        7.8                                                                           18.4
10/94                                0 4                        0.1                                                                             0 4
11/94                                0.2                                                                                                        0.2
FY96                                30.7                         0.0                        6.4                        0.0                    37.1
2/96                                15.3                                                   6.3                                                21.6
3/96                                  0.1                                                  0.1                                                  0.3
6/96                                15.3                                                                                                       15.3
FY97                                  0.0                        0.10                      0.0                        5.6                       5.6
11/96                                                                                                                 5.6                       5.6
.....77.6.56.........................                                                                    ........................................  ....................   ..............
TOTAL                    ~~~          ~       ~~61..7.  7.9          ...........6-.4 .......                 5.6                     8.



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                              17
Table 7: Dates of Tranche Disbursements
Tra_he                                  Date
First                                 6/94
Second                                 2/96
Third                                  6/96
Table 8: Studies Included in the Program
Additional enhancements for   Analysis of mechanisms that   Two studies were completed;
Compensation Bonds issued to    could render the Compensation    recomnmendations were used to
resolve outstanding property  Bonds more attractive to holders  prepare legislation that improved
disputes between the private and   without jeopardizing fiscal  the term and conditions of the
public sector.                stability                     Compensation Bonds as well as
their use to settle fiscal
obligations of the private sector.



18                                                                                       Nicaragua ERCII
Table 9: Status of Covenants and Conditionality
Agree       cavenanat                                  Prosent  Fu1fill_.
SWwn      Tyo       lt>j#n..                           $       mel  a 
1.01 (b)    General        Evaluation report by the   C         4/23/97     Report due no later than 6 months
condition      Borrower on the Program's                         after the Closmg Date.
execution
3 03 (b)    Accounts/      Furmish externally audited  C        First        There was an Amendment to the
audits         reports not later than 4             tranche      Credit Agreement that made the
months after the end of each        report:      delivery of the externally audited
FY or not later than 90 days         6/23/97     report for the second and third
after the last withdrawal in                     tranches contingent on a specific
connection with the                              request by the Association, which
expenditures financed out of                     IDA has chosen not to exercise.
the proceeds of each tranche.
Schedule 1  Macroecono-    The macroeconomic policy    CD       Condition    Significant policy slippages in the
mic policy     framework of the Borrower is         to be        macroeconomic program during the
conditionality   consistent with the objectives     fulfilled at  last quarter of 1994 and the first
of the Program.                     the time of   half of 1995 Then, after some
each        months of satisfactory performance,
disburse-    substantial deviations from the
ment        macroeconomic targets re-emerged
m  mid-1996 on.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have   CD       Second      Initial delays m reducing the
3,         conditionality    made progress m the                tranche     number of positions due to the
Part A (1)  adm [budgetary  implementation of the Labor         condition.   postponed privatization of TELCOR
/allocative    Mobility Program (LMP).                           and the need to enhance the LMP's
change                                                          incentive package to attract
.__________  ____potential beneficiaries.
Schedule    Divestiture of   The Borrower shall have   CD       Second      CORNAP divested or closed 63
3,         state           brought to the point of sale,        tranche     enterprises, sold its majority
Part A (2)   enterpnses    offered for lease or ceased the      condition.   interest in another 3 enterprises and
operations of at least 33 of                     completed the pnvatizathon 2 MCT
CORNAP's enterpnses, 1                           enterpnses Initially there were
MCT enterpnse and have                           delays in the privatization program
made progress m the                              of TELCOR due to changes in the
privatization of TELCOR                          Constitution that made its
privatization contingent on a law,
rather than on a decree, as
oonginally planned by the
Government Although the
Government took the privatization
of TELCOR to the point of sale, the
programmed privatization failed to
materialize.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have  C         Second      Decree 9444 of October 1994
3,         conditionality   prepared and commenced              tranche     established the goals and
Part A (3)   adm./budgetary  implementation of the Public       condition.   management structure for a
lallocative    Sector Reform Program                             comprehensive 5-year public sector
change                                                          reform program.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have   C        Second      Emphasis of the action plan was on.
3,         conditionality.   made progress in the               tranche     (a) introduction of a new charts of
Part A (4)   regulatory    implementation of the action         condition    accounts; (b) design of a centralized
change         plan to Improve prudential                        MIS on debtors, (c) inclusion of FNI
supervision of the financial                     and INISER in the
system.                                          Superintendency's inspection plan;
and (d) higher penalties for non-
comphlance with prudential norms.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have   C        Second       This program included: (a) the
3,         conditionality:   made progress in the               tranche      creation of a Vice Ministry at the



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                                        19
mqnt       Condftmnalty  Descriptno                    Status   meat Date   ComiMents
Part A (5)   allocative    implementation of the                condition.   MIFIN to address property-related
change         Property Rights Improvement                       issues; (b) 2 studies to prepare
Program.                                         legislation (enacted 7/94) to
enhance the value of the
Compensation Bonds, and (c)
cumulative targets for resolvmg
property cases over time
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have  C         Third       A cumulative elimmation of 7,000
3,         conditionality,   made further progress in the      tranche      positions was deemed satisfactory
Part B (1)   adm /budgetary  implementation of the Labor        condition.   for third tranche release. Actual
/              Mobility Program (LMP)                           reductions reached 7,432 positions.
allocative
change
Schedule    Divestiture of   The Borrower shall have: (a)   CP  Third       Under the Project, CORNAP
3,         state           offered for sale or lease, or       tranche      divested or closed 63 enterpnses
Part B (2)   enterpnses    liquidated all but 6 of              condition    Also, it sold its majority interest in
CORNAP's enterprises and                         another 3 enterprises in which
all but 8 of MCT's                               maintained only munority equity
enterpnses, (b) discontmued                      positions MCT completed the
PETRONIC's gasoline                              divestiture of 10 enterpnses Since
distribution operations, and                     gasolme distnbution by PETRONIC
(c) defined the regulatory                       contmued beyond third tranche
functions, if any, of                            release a waiver was granted.
PETRONIC                                         Currently, PETRONIC still is m
Government's hands, but it has no
regulatory functions



20                                                                                       Nicaragua ERC II
.....~~~~~~~~~~ :7     ...     . .........r      ...            .,b''  ........ ............ ......... . . ,   
Schedule   Sector policy    The Borrower shall have   C         Third       Two Institutional Restructuring
3,         conditionality.   made progress in the               tranche     Agreements (ARIs) were signed
Part B (3)   adm /budgetary  implementation of the Public       condition    (between CERAP and MCT and
/allocative    Sector Reform Program                            ISS), the implementation of the
change         including, in particular, the                    agreed action plans is underway.
restructuring of at least two                    Credit 2690-NI is currently
major public institutions                        providing financing to carry out
the implementation of ARIs.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have  C         Third       Three actions were taken: (a) the
3,         conditionality.   made further progress in the      tranche      new chart of accounts was
Part B (4)   regulatory    implementation of the action         condition.   adopted by all private banks; (b)
change         plan to improve prudential                       the centralized risk management
supervision.                                     system run by the
Superintendency of Banks
became operational; and (c) the
Superintendency of Banks was
designated by decree as the
regulatory agency of the
Nicaraguan Stock Exchange.
Compliance of state banks with
prudential regulations remamns
unsatisfactory and they do not
follow the adopted accounting
prnnciples.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have  C         Third       The Government succeeded in
3,         conditionality   made further progress in the        tranche     substantially meetmg its
Part B (5)   allocative    implementation of the                condition    cumulative targets for resolvmg
change         Property Rights Improvement                      property cases through
Program.                                         administrative means, although
for a mmonty of claims a final
=__________  resolution remains to be found.
Schedule    Sector policy    The Borrower shall have  C         Third       The Government implemented
3,         conditionality.   made progress m the                tranche     the import tariff reduction
Part B (6)   adm./budgetary  implementation of the Tanff        condition.   program as expected and
/allocative    Reduction Program and shall                      approved a satisfactory action
change         have prepared a satisfactory                     plan to phase out the fiscal
action plan for the                             incentives provided to non-
replacement of its export                       traditional exporters by end-1997.
promotion scheme by an                           It determned that a duty
another regime satisfactory to                   drawback system or temporary
the Association.                                 admission regime would be too
complex to admnmister, and
instead proposed a simpler
strategy of lowermg tanffs on
inputs. This alternative approach
was found acceptable by IDA.
Present status.
C  = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially



Nicaragua ERC II                                                                                          21
Table 9: Missions
.tge                              9taff gang                                     Pru %f
Pj .ect cle:        Year        p                                               tabt:.
Through            06/92        6             14           i (2),j,k,
appraisal          05/93        12            12           a,e,i(2),n,o,q,r,s
07/93       3             5            ,t,u
03/94       9             9            c,i,m
a,b(2),e(2),i,n,o,
p
Appraisal through
Board approval
Board approval                                                               S               S
through
effectiveness
Supervision        04/94        5             12.3         a,b,c,d,e         S               S
03/95       5                          a,b,c,f,g         S               S
03/96       2                          h,t               S               S
Completion          12/96       0 2           0 2
1 Performance ratmg as shown m Supervision Form 590
2. Key to Specialized Staff Skills
a Lead Economist                                  I Water and Sewerage Specialist
b Financial Economist                             m Financial Sector Specialist
c Bankig Specialist                               n Privatization Specialist
d Lawyer                                          p Resident Representative
f Public Sector Specialist                        q Taxation, Public Enterp , Natural Res. Specialist
g Telecommumcations Specialist                    r Property Rights Specialist
h Country Economist                               s Export Development Specialist
Economist                                      t Country Analyst
j Mming Specialist                                u Country Officer
k Energy Specialist



22                                                                                                 Nicaragua ERCII
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
stge of                                  Stan fWwe
Through appraisal                             68.9              185.1
Appraisal-Board                                1.1                2.2
Board-effectiveness                            7.3               23.8
Supervision'                                  20.0               67.7
Completion                                     4 0               19.1
TOTAL                                      101.3              297.9
Task management of ERC II was performed by the Bank's Resident Representative in
Nicaragua The 2OSW figure refers mainly to mputs of others, and likely understates the
intensity of supervision.
.



ANNEX A
Government Evaluation of the Second Economic Recovery Program (ERC 11)
Annex A presents an unedited translation of the Government's evaluation of the Second
Economic Recovery Credit. The Government evaluation was prepared by the Ministry of Finance
and also included a table of selected economic indicators (Annex I) and a matrix showing the
results of the adjustment program (Annex II)



Managua, April 23, 1997
7f6 idLe'4  0j~
Re: Assessment of the Second Economic Recovery Program (ERC I)
During the last six years, Nicaragua has made significant progress in the stabilization and
structural reform process with the aid of the international economic community. With this
support, the deficit of the balance of payments was eliminated and economic and social projects
and programs were developed. In this context, the Government of Nicaragua reached agreement
on an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program with the IMF, and contracted the
First and Second Economic Recovery Credit with the World Bank, agreeing on the
implementation of economic policies to support macroeconomic stability and structural adjustment
to consolidate the basis for sustained growth.
In this document, I outline the main results of the Government's management during the 1994-
1996 period, regarding the commitments undertaken for the execution of the Second Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC II) in June, 1994.
I.    Economic Developments during 1994-1996
During this period, Nicaragua showed significant signs of recovery, achieving incremental growth
rates of 3.3% in 1994, 4.5% in 1995, and 5.5% in 1996. The main sectors which contributed to
the economic growth were agriculture (average 13.2% during the period), construction and
mining (16.1%) and fishing (37.1%). In agriculture, strong growth was recorded by export
products-mainly coffee and sugar-as well as non-traditional exports and basic grains for
domestic consumption (see Annex I).
Regarding the price system, the Government succeeded in keeping inflation at manageable levels,
with a moderate inflation of around 10% on average during the last three years (see Annex I).
In the external sector, exports of goods and services increased from US$267.0 million in 1993, to
US$634.8 million in 1996 (equivalent to a 137.8% growth). On the other hand, imports increased
at lower rates than exports (50.2% between 1993 and 1996). This resulted in a decrease of the
trade gap, from US$402.6 million in 1993, to US$371.2 million in 1996. Furthermore, there was
an improvement in the net international reserve position, with an increase of US$66.0 million
during 1996. Lower accrued interests due to a debt restructuring with the Paris Club, the buy-
back of commercial debt and debt forgiveness, contributed to this result. In 1996, debt totaling
US$4,165.6 million with Russia and Mexico was canceled.
During these three years, the focus of fiscal policy continued to aim at improving the current
account balance, which moved from a deficit to a surplus since 1992. This was mainly the result
of the major down sizing of the State and a proactive revenue policy, so as to enhance tax



collection efficiency and other tax reforms. Current savings increased to an average of 4.4%
relative to GDP during the last three years
However, fiscal policy was not successful enough to comply with the ESAF targets. For this
reason, toward the end of 1995 the country agreed with the IMF on a monitoring program, which
encompassed corrective measures, including larger tax collections and fiscal restraint, as well as a
tight monetary policy through the reduction of net credit to the financial sector and the
Government, which would set the basis for the second phase of the ESAF in 1996. Overall
compliance with the monitoring program during September 1995 and March 1996 was
satisfactory.
Subsequently, due to the delay in the approval of the Tax Reform Law (Ley para el Fomento de la
Estabilidad, las Inversiones y el Empleo), there was a lag in compliance with the revenue
collection targets. In addition, public expenditures increased significantly due to the electoral
campaign, the rise in social security expenditures, and in transfers to the education sector. On the
other hand, credit recovery of the state-owned banks did not meet expectations. As a result of the
above, negotiations with the LMF for the second phase of the ESAF under the policy framework
adopted by the new Government were delayed until 1997.
Results of the 1994-1996 period show that the Nicaraguan economy is gradually approaching
stability and sustained growth, given a gradual reduction and reversion of foreign trade, fiscal, and
employment imbalances, through the boost in exports, the generation of public savings, the
containment of in inflationary pressures, and the creation of new jobs in the private sector.
II.   Public Sector Reforms
State reform was part of the ESAF and ERC II framework. A key component of this reform was
the down sizing of the Central Government, through the elimination of 13,500 posts in the public
sector between 1994 and 1996. By December 1996, the public sector labor force had been
reduced by 10,285 posts, 76.2% of the proposed target, its reduction is foreseen to continue
during 1997, until reaching an optimum level for the operation of the State apparatus.
The Government implemented a privatization program aimed at promoting an efficient allocation
of resources, and reducing the size of the Central Government. The privatization process of 351
enterprises owned by the Corporaci6n Nacional del Sector Puiblico (CORNAP) began in 1990,
and by 1996 97% of all CORNAP firms were privatized. The privatization process of the
remaining firms is in its last phase; its completion is expected for the first semester of 1997. The
privatization of one of the MCT firms and LUBNICA and ENIGAS was also completed.
As part of this same reform process, operations of PETRONIC were opened to the private sector,
so as to position it as a business enterprise within a competitive market, pursuant to the
regulations of Decrees 56-94 and 26-95. Three Draft Laws were submitted to the National
Assembly for the restructuring of the electric power industry, and the operation and prospecting of



hydrocarbons, as well as for their supply; this is also aimed at allowing the involvement of the
private sector (Appendix II, point II B).
Under the ERC II policy matrix, the Government committed itself to undertake the sale of 40% of
the TELCOR shares, and to award a management concession. In this regard, Law No. 210,
Incorporaci6n de Particulares en la Operaci6n y Ampliacion de Servicios Pzublicos de
Telecomunicaciones, was approved in December, 1995. ENITEL was created under this Law,
which was charged with the operation of the public telecommunications services. This Law
enables the Government to sell up to 40% of ENITEL shares-including the management
contract-to a worldwide known company.
A reform plan and its implementation was proposed to complete the public sector reform program,
including the restructuring of at least two public agencies. There has been significant progress in
this issue. Six reorganization agreements (ARIs) were signed, for the Ministry of Construction
and Transport (MCT), the Ministry of Finance (MIFIN), the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources (MARENA), the Ministry of Economy and Development (MEDE), the Nicaraguan
Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM), and the Nicaraguan Institute for Social Security
(INSS). The reform in these Ministries and governmental agencies is under way in several
aspects:
*     A new organization was designed in the MCT, creating an Economic Infrastructure
Planning Division and preparing a diagnosis for the installation of a new data processing
system.
*     Progress has been made in the design of the new Social Security System, and in the
development of a study aimed at strengthening the Health Insurance model within the
INSS.
*     In the MIFIN, a study was carried out on the staffing structure and pattern according to
the Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera, Administrativa y Auditoria (SIGFA).
*     The INIFOM made efforts to procure financing for the measures set forth in its ARI, which
was attained with donor aid from the Danish Government.
*     The design of the Sistema Gerencial y Tecnico del Estado (SGTE) was completed, and
400 officials of the public sector were trained.
*     The first draft of the Financial Management Law (Ley de Administraci6n Financiera) was
prepared, which will lay the legal basis for SIGFA's operation, and submitted to the
National Assembly. Likewise, this system began its implementation in several Ministries.
*     In 1996, four contracts with international consulting firms were signed, to provide
technical assistance to agencies that have signed ARIs, in the four components of
Institutional Restructuring, Civil Service, Budgeting and Auditing, and Data Processing
Technology.



M.   Reform of the Financial Sector
Components planned for the financial sector were to promote the development of an efficient
financial intermediation system, with greater involvement of the private sector, strengthening
compliance with prudential regulations of the Superintendency of Banks, enhancing the data
system on bank debtors, and implementing a new chart of accounts.
Under a state bank reform program agreed with the World Bank and the IDB, the down sizing of
the state banking system is being implemented. The latter is carried out through the transfer of
approximately C1,500 million of the banks' portfolio to the Central Bank-which represents over
half of the state banks' portfolio-by way of debt payments due to the Central Bank. Moreover, a
cut-back in the number of offices and branches, especially in the case of the Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo (BANADES) is being carried out. Restrictions have also been imposed on the growth
of the BANADES portfolio.
As of July 1995, the Central Bank canceled the 3- and 12-month rediscount line of credit, and only
the overnight and 10-day liquidity support facilities will remain in place Thus, the Central Bank
will only act as lender of last resort.
Using its own powers, the Superintendency of Banks has increased penalties for the non-
compliance with its prudential norms. In May, 1996, the Superintendency of Banks approved new
prudential norms on credit concentration, asset valuation and classification, capital adequacy, and
reforms to the exception norms (norma sobre excepcionalidades). The draft General Banking
Law, which is under review in the National Assembly, includes the strengthening of bank
supervision powers.
The debtor system is performing well, and pursuant to the prudential norms of the
Superintendency of Banks, the banks are committed to provide reports to keep the system up to
date. A new chart of accounts was implemented as from 1994 under resolution CBI-DIF-I-4-93,
currently including all state banks and private banks.
IV.   Development of the Private Sector
To establish a favorable environment for the development of the private sector, the Government
intends to address the problem of property rights so as to ensure land tenure security, and also to
solve conflicts resulting from the land seizures of the Sandinista Government. With this objective
in mind, the Government created a program for the administrative settlement of property claims.
Up to 1996, the Oficina de Ordenamiento Territorial (OOT) had reviewed 12,117 cases of Law
85 (urban areas), 98% of the total cases submitted to the revision process. With respect to Law
86 (rural areas), 82% of the 106,130 cases submitted to this process were reviewed, and a 90.8%
progress was achieved in the cases related to the Agrarian Reform (Law 88) (Annex II, point IV)



In turn, the Government increased its efforts regarding the compensation and indemnification
process. Up to December 1996, 4,501 resolutions were issued, accounting for 79% of all claims
submitted under the Sistema Integrado de Atenci6n de Reclamos de Propiedades (SIARP).
The indemnification process involved the issuance of C3,933 7 million in Compensation Payment
Bonds (BPI) since 1993, and interest coupons for the years 1995-1996 amounting to C23.9
million have been paid.
As a result of an agreement among the National Assembly, the Association of Bond Holders, and
the Government, and based on the recommendations of a study by Dr. Strasma, Law No. 180 was
passed. This Law modified the terms of the bonds from 20 to 15 years, increased the fixed 3%
interest rate to an incremental interest rate of up to 5%, established semi-annual interest payments,
and extended the use of these bonds to the payment of tax, basic services, and other debts
originating before June, 1993.
At the end of 1996, Ministerial Agreement No. 17-96 was issued defining the establishment of a
BPI exchange system. Through this system, the bonds can be traded in international financial
markets (Appendix II, point IV A).
Other reforms proposed in support of a productive private sector, under the terms of this Credit,
refer to foreign trade. A strategy to foster export growth was developed, as well as a more
efficient import policy through the reduction of the level and dispersion of nominal protection. In
May, 1994 a gradual schedule to reduce the nominal ceiling rates of Import Tariffs (DAI,
Derechos Arancelarios de Importaci6n), Fiscal Stamp Tax (ITF, Impuesto de Timbre Fisca), and
Temporary Protection Tariff (ATP, Arancel Temporal de Protecci6n) was prepared. Through
Decree No. 41-95, DAI rates for a wide range of products were cut from 5% to 1%.
Concurrently, ATP rates for a series of products included in Appendix I published in Decree No.
22-94 were modified, reducing the 5-15% range to a 10-12% range. With respect to Appendix II
of the ATP, the maximum level was cut from 30% to 25%. At the end of 1996, the maximum
ceiling of the sum of DAI, ITF, and ATP of Appendix II was less than 40%, in accordance with
the import duty reduction schedule announced by the Government in 1994.
Mr. President, this new Government considers that our country has progressed satisfactorily
during the last three years. Reforms carried out have aimed to maintain both price stability and
structural adjustment, as key steps to achieve sustained growth. As part of these reforms, a set of
policy measures were implemented in the areas of expenditure reductions, privatization of
Government assets, and trade liberalization. These reforms were carried out in the context of
macroeconomic policies that guarantee overall stability.
Economic performance improved significantly under the economic policies followed, but we know
that we still face enormous challenges. We cannot be satisfied until we achieve a strong, market-
oriented economic recovery, able to offer a bright future for our people. The Government of
Nicaragua is willing and determined to continue deepening the economic transformations leading
to growth with equity. Then, a new and prosperous phase will begin, where the true rule of law is



re-established, and a stable environment consolidated; domestic and foreign investments will
increase, and with it production and productive employment for all Nicaraguans. In such context,
support from the international community, mainly the World Bank, is critical to continue
transforming our economy and take firm steps in the difficult road ahead of us.
We are currently undertaking a series of activities in coordination with the IMF, in order to reach
agreement on a second economic program in June, 1997. Considering the success obtained under
ERC II, we are sure that we will be able to count on the support of the World Bank as a co-
financing agency for our economic program, through a third economic recovery credit.






ANNEX I
NICARAGUA: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1993          1994           1995          1996
A. Gross Domestic Product (1980 C6rdobas)        -0.4            3.3            4.5           5.5
Primnary                                        1 8          10.8            5.5            9.8
Agriculture                                   -6 2           16.1           8.2           15.4
Fishing                                       62.7           55.8          47.5            7.9
Secondary                                       0 3           2.7            5.4           4.7
Manufacturng                                   0 0            1.0           3.0            2.0
Construction                                   1 5           17.8          16.3           15 4
Minmg                                          2.7          -10 1          30 3           27 2
Tertiary                                       -1.8          -0 1            3.3           3 4
Trade                                         -2.3            1.6           5 0            5 7
B. GDP (current C6rdobas)                     11,067.3      12,445 4       14,455 5       17,126 0
C. Inflation Rates
Annual average                                 20.4           7.8           11 2           11.6
Cumulative                                     19.5          12 4           11.1          12.1
D Unemployment (national)                        21.8           20.7           18 2          16 1
E Public Fmances (% of GDP)
Non-Fin. Public Sector Balance (after grants)  -0 2           -5 9          -2 4           -4 9
Non-Fin. Current Balance                        3 2           2.4            6 1           4 7
F External Sector (US$ million)
Exports FOB                                   267.0          351.2         526 4          634.8
Imports FOB                                   669.6          784.7         865.0         1006.0
Trade Balance                                -402.6         -433.5        -338.6         -371.2
Net International Reserves of Central Bank     40.5          105.1          99.2          165.2
External Public Debt                        10,987 3      11,695 0       10,298.9       6,104.8
Sources Central Bank Annual Reports, 1994, 1995 and 1996.



ANNEX n
NICARAGUA: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MATRIX OF RESULTS, 1994-96
Objective                Commitment or Action
Required                 Status or Results
I Macroeconomic
Framework
Maintain a stable        Durng 1994-96, Nicaragua initiated an economic
Ensure a stable          macroeconomic            program withm the ESAF framework During thls
macroeconomic            framework.               period, the Nicaraguan economy has shown significant
framework.                                        signs of recovery, reachmg average economic growth
rates of 4.5% and a recovery of exports. Nonetheless, in
1995 and 1996 fiscal and monetary targets were out of
line, which prevented contiuation of the ESAF program.
Agreement was reached m end-1995 on a monitoring
program with the IMF. The new Adminstration of Dr.
Aleman aims to agree with the DMF, during the first
semester of 1997, on a program which can restart the
ESAF
II Reform of the State
A. Labor Mobility Plan    Design and implement an   As of December 1996, almost 10,300 positions had been
Achieve a permanent      action plan for the labor    eliminated from the public sector labor force; 76% of the
reduction in costs to    mobility program in order  target.
strengthen the fiscal   to reduce employment by
balance through a        13,500 positions durng
reduction in the public  1994-96.
sector labor force.
B. Privatization Program
Promote more efficient   Brmg to the point of sale    The process of disincorporating the 351 enterprises was
resource allocation and  or closure enterprises   started in 1990. By 1996, 97% of the goal was achieved,
lower fiscal burden      under CORNAP and MCT   with 10 pending enterprises which are m the final stages
through dismcorporation of                        of liquidation or closure.
state enterpnses.
The process of selling the assets of CONSULTRAN, an
MCT enterpnse, was completed in end 1995. Another 7
enterpnses continue to be part of this Ministry, grouped
under the Corporacion Regional de Empresas de
Construcci6n, located m different parts of the country. A
Bank-fmanced study on the privatization of these
enterpnses is in the hands of the relevant Ministry,
awaiting its mnplementation.
Bring to the point of sale    Decree 56-94 of December 1994, established that the
or liquidation some of the   importation, export, refining, transport, storage and
operations of PETRONIC,   marketing of hydrocarbons could be carried out by
mcluding gasoline        national or intemational natural and legal entities whlch
distribution, while the  obtained the appropriate license, with the State
eventual regulatory      guaranteeing the corresponding regulations. With this
functions of PETRONIC    law, PETRONIC ceased to have a state monopoly on
are defined              these activities.
Subsequently, Decree 26-95 reformed PETRONIC's
organic law m order to place it as a commercial
-enterprise in a competitive market.



NICARAGUA: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MATRIX OF RESULTS, 1994-96
Objective                Commitment or Action
Required                 Status or Results
In the case of LUBNICA, 25% of its capital was
transferred to its workers, and the remaining 75% was
transferred to INE to repay debts to PETRONIC
In the case of ENIGAS, workers were paid with the
enterorise's assets.
Improve the efficiency and   Take steps for the sale of   Law No 210, Incorporaci6n de Particulares en Ia
service coverage by      40% of ENITEL shares,     Operaci6n y Ampliacw6n de los Servicios Puiblicos de
promoting pnvate sector    mcluding the offer of a  Telecomunicaciones, was approved on December 7,
participation in the     management contract for    1995. The Law created ENITEL to operate public
telecoms sector.         the wmmng bidder.         telecommunications services.
Thls same law authorized the Govemnment to sell up to
40% of ENITEL shares, including a management
contract to an mternationally-renowned enterprise. In
addition, if necessary to back up the compensation bonds,
an additional 10% of shares could be sold. A Committee
was created in charge of canying out the pre-
qualification process, the public bidding of the
concession and the sale of ENITEL shares.
C. Public Sector Reforms
Create an efficient, smaller  Prepare a 3-year plan, m  As of December 1996, 6 Institutional Restructurng
and modern public sector   line with the           Agreements (ARIs) were finalized, for MCT, MIFIN,
Government's public      MARENA, MEDE, INIFOM and INSS. Reforms have
sector reform policy     begun to be implemented in a number of aspects in the
Achieve satisfactory     Mimstnes and mstitutions. In MCT, a new structure
progress in its          was designed, creatmg a Planning Division for Economic
implementation, mcluding   Infrastructure, and a diagnosis was carried out for the
the restructurng of at least  adoption of new computer installations. In INSS,
2 important public       progress was made on the design of a new social security
mstitutions.             system and completion of studies to strengthen
preventive health. In MIFIN, a study was carried out on
the structure and payroll in line with the Integrated
Financial Management System (SIGFA). INIFOM
managed to secure financing from the Government of
Denmark to carry out actions stipulated in the ARI.
Design of the Public Management and Technical Service
was completed. A draft law for SIGFA was prepared and
implementation was started in a number of Ministries.
In 1996, 4 contracts were signed with mternational
consultmg firms to provide techmcal assistance to
institutions with ARIs, m the areas of institutional
restructurng, civil service, budget and auditing, and
information technology
Im  Financial Sector
Reform
A. Banking Sector Policy   Maintain policy of: (i) not  A policy of reducing the size of the state banking sector
Encourage development of  recapitalizmg state banks    has been implemented within the framework of a state
an efficient financial   through new public sector   reform program agreed with the World Bank and IDB.
intermediation system,   funds or revaluation of
with mcreased private    non-financial assets;
sector participation.



NICARAGUA: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MATRIX OF RESULTS, 1994-96
Objective                Commitment or Action
Required                 Status or Results
(ii) ensure compliance   This has been achieved through a portfolio transfer to the
with prudential norms and   Central Bank m the order of C1,500 milhion, equivalent
instructions issued by the   to more than half of the portfolio of state banks, on
Superintendency of Banks;  account of debt payments to the Central Bank, as well as
and (iii) no pre-assigning    reduction in the number of offices and branches,
of rediscounts from the  especially in the case of BANADES. At the same time,
Central Bank for specific   Ilmits were set on the growth of loans of BANADES>
activities. Any revaluation
of non-financial assets can
only be made to cover a
deficit in loan
provisions-when
revenues are insufficient to
cover required provisions
and capital adequacy is at
its miumum-or to cover
severance payments.
B. Superintendency of    Enact decree, action plan    The Superintendency has increased penalties for non-
Banks                    or draft law to increase  compliance with its prudential norms, relymg on its own
Strengthen compliance    penalties, create new     attributions In May 1996, the Supermtendency
with prudential norms of    prudential norms and   approved new prudential norms on loan concentration,
the Superintendency,     improve the operations of   evaluation and classification of assets, capital adequacy
improve the financial    the Superintendency of    and reforms to exceptions to the norms The National
information system ana   Banks.                    Assembly is discussmg the draft General Law of Banks
accountmg systems.                                 which includes the strengthening of the Superintendency.
Design and implement a   The system is in operation and the Superintendency's
debtor management        prudential norms include the requirement that bariks
system.                  report in order to maintain the system current. A user
manual on the central risk system is being tested. The
system has three tools: relevance analysis, balance
mformation, loan amounts and provisions. The modules
on repayment status, and repayment analysis are being
developed.
Implement a new chart of   A new chart of accounts has been implemented smce
accounts                 1994 through resolution SBI-DIF-I-4-93, currently
mcludmg all state and private banks.
IV Private Sector
Development
A. Property Rights       Establish a program to    As of 1996, the Oficina de Ordenamiento Territorial had
Resolve property rights  review compliance with    reviewed 12,117 cases under Law 85 (houses) equivalent
problems in order to     established procedures to   to 98% of the total number of cases presented for review.
improve land tenure      resolve property conflicts.   With respect to Law 86 (rural sector) 82% of the 106,130
secunty and improve                                cases submitted were reviewed. Lastly, progress was
pnvate sector climate                              made on 91% of the agrarian reform cases (Law 88). At
the same time, the Government made greater efforts on
the compensation process. As of December 1996, 4,501
resolutions were issued, covering 79% of the total claims



NICARAGUA: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MATRIX OF RESULTS, 1994-96
Objective                Commitment or Action
Required                 Status or Results
presented to the Integrated System for Review of
Property Claims. The compensation process meant the
issumg of C3,933 million in compensation bonds since
1993, with coupon interest payments for a total of C23.9
million durng 1995-96
On the basis of the study by Dr. John Strasma, Law 180
Carry out a study and    was approved, following consensus between the
Implement its            Assembly, the Association of Bond Holders and the
recormendations with the   Government. This Law reduced the period of the Bonds
aim of raismg the value of  from 20 to 15 years, the fixed 3% interest rate was
compensation bonds.      gradually increased to reach 5%, mterest payments
would be every 6 months, and the use of the bonds was
extended to cover tax payments, basic services and other
debts prior to June 1993 The Ministerial Accord No 17
was published m late 1996, creating a redemption system
that would allow these bonds to be transacted ui
mternational markets.
B. Discretion in
Economic Policy
Promote a more stable and  Issue a presidential decree   Presidential Decree 20-94 was issued in April 1994,
transparent policy       establishung: (i) that any  which established that Executive Decrees and
enviromnent for the      change in tax or fiscal   Admnistrative Rulings of a fiscal nature must be
private sector, reducmg  policy, to be legally     published in the Official Gazette to be legally bindmg
ministerial discretionality   bmdmg, must be published  In the same month, Presidential Decree 21-94 abrogated
to change tax and fiscal    in the Official Gazette,  the discretionary powers of Ministries and autonomous
policies and the creation of  except m cases offorce  and decentralized agencies of the Executive Power to
new state enterprises.   majeure, m which case it   create and change taxes.
must be published in at
least one daily newspaper
of broad circulation; (ii)
abrogatmg and elevatmg to
the Presidency the powers
of Ministries and
government agencies to
change tax and fiscal
policies; and (iii)
abrogating the powers of
Ministries and government
agencies to create new
conmercial enterpnses.
C. Foreign Trade
Reforms                  Reduce nominal protection  A schedule for the reduction of nominal tariff ceilings for
Promote export growth and  rates from a range of 10-    the DAI, ITF and the ATP was established in May 1994.
efficient import         40% to 10-37% (except for  37% for July 1, 1995; 35% for January 1, 1996; 32% for
substitution by reducmg  fiscal mdustries). Present   January 1, 1997. At end 1996, the ceiling (including the
the level and dispersion of  a time-bound tariff   DAI, ITF and ATP of Annex II) was below 40%.
nominal protection, and    reduction program.
the creation of a
transparent and efficient
export incentive system.



NICARAGUA: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MATRIX OF RESULTS, 1994-96
Objective                 Commitment or Action
Required                  Status or Results
Complete preparation of
action plan to replace
existmg export promotion
mechanisms by a duty
drawback system
D. Labor Market Reform
Promote greater labor     Comply with agreements    A new Labor Code was promulgated m end 1996.
productivity and reduce the on labor policy
incentives toward infonnal
activities by ensuring
flexibility m the operation
of the labor market.



I



IMAGING
Report Na.         1877a
Type:     ICR



