Report No. PIC896
Project Name              Nicaragua-Second Economic Recovery Credit-II
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Non-Sectoral
Project ID                NIPA7784
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Date Prepared             March 11, 1994
Appraisal Date            March 28, 1994
Projected Board date      June 21, 1994
Country Background
1.   Upon assuming office in April 1990, after 11 years of civil war,
the Government faced a highly polarized society and a devastated
economy, characterized by an extensive and centralized public sector and
atrophied market institutions. Exports and GDP per capita had declined
to 40 percent of the levels attained in the mid 1970s, and major
macroeconomic imbalances inherited from the previous administration had
resulted in hyper-inflation and a massive external debt of more than
five times GDP. In 1991-92, the Government implemented a strong
stabilization and adjustment program supported by the IMF, IDA and a
number of donors.
2.   The stabilization measures introduced in early 1991 were very
successful. Inflation was reduced from hyper-inflationary levels in
1988-90 to single digit rates by end 1992 and the economy recorded
positive, although modest, growth for the first time since 1983. The
Government also advanced significantly in the implementation of its
structural adjustment program, supported by IDA through the First
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I). The main achievements of the
adjustment program were: (i) a major downsizing of the public sector,
including reductions in military personnel; (ii) liberalization of
external and domestic trade; (iii) liberalization of the financial
system and creation of a Superintendency of Banks; and (iv) creation of
social safety nets, including an employment generation program and an
IDA-supported Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE).
3.   The Need for Adjustment.   When the second tranche of ERC I was
disbursed in June 1992, the economy appeared to have stabilized and on
the way to recovery. Instead, GDP growth became negative again in 1993
(-0.7 percent) and foreign reserves declined markedly, leaving the
economy in a precarious position. Continued stabilization and
adjustment is essential to re-establish macroeconomic control and revive
growth, but also to deal with an expected decline in external
assistance. The decline in aid is the result of generally tighter
external aid budgets and a shift in priorities by bilateral donors.
Nicaragua's Adjustment Program
4.   The second phase of the Government's structural adjustment program



seeks to address Nicaragua's main challengearesuming growth while
maintaining macroeconomic stability in the face of declining external
assistance. The Government's immediate priority is to restore and
maintain macroeconomic stability. To do this, it will need to downsize
the public sector sufficiently to increase public savings, restore a
safe level of foreign reserves and permit expansion of private credit to
stimulate growth. The main elements of the Government's adjustment
program are: (i) development and implementation of a comprehensive
public sector reform program, designed to refocus the role of the state,
improve its efficiency and contribute to sounder fiscal policies; (ii)
deepening of reforms in the financial system; and (iii) improvements in
the private sector business environment.
The Proposed Credit
5.   Objectives.   ERC II aims to support the Government's structural
adjustment program, with particular emphasis on the longer-term effort
to reform the public sector. ERC II is also designed to complement the
stabilization program, to be supported by the IMF through a proposed
three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility, and to assist the
Government mobilize balance of payments support for its stabilization
and adjustment program. ERC II would be accompanied by a parallel
Technical Assistance Credit, currently under preparation, designed to
assist the Government implement the reforms included in its structural
adjustment program and provide continuity in the public sector reform
program beyond the ERC II implementation period.
6.   Description.   ERC II would have four major support objectives:   (i)
an appropriate macroeconomic framework; (ii) reform of the state; (iii)
financial sector reform; and (iv) improvements in the private sector
business environment.
Macroeconomic Framework. Maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework would be monitored jointly with the IMF as
part of the Policy Framework Paper process.
Reform of the State. This component would have three parts: (i)
implementation of a public sector labor mobility program, including
a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector over
the period 1994-96; (ii) divestiture of state-owned enterprises,
including most of the 72 remaining CORNAP enterprises, shares of
the telecommunications company, and enterprises in the Ministry of
Construction and Transport and the state-owned petroleum company;
and (iii) design and initial implementation of a comprehensive and
longer-term public sector reform program, including institutional
restructuring, budgetary and expenditure management, tax and
customs administration, and decentralization.
Financial Sector Reform. In order to improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation, the Government will take steps to improve
the operational performance of the two largest state banks and
strengthen prudential supervision carried out by the
Superintendency of Banks.
The Private Sector Business Environment. The Government would
- 2 -



reduce discretion and increase transparency in the application of
economic incentives and policies, implement a phased tariff
reduction program, prepare a duty drawback system to replace the
current export promotion system by 1996, and prepare a Letter of
Labor Policy to guide any future labor market reforms.
7.   Financing.  The Government's structural adjustment program would be
supported by a $60 million equivalent IDA credit and additional
bilateral cofinancing of, at least, a similar amount.
8.   Environmental Aspects.   The Government has completed a National
Environmental Action Plan, which was presented to IDA in December 1993
as the Government's official program to address Nicaragua's
environmental problems. The proposed measures supported by ERC II are
not expected to generate negative environmental effects. The
environmental assessment category for ERC II is C.
9.   Implementation Arrangements.   The Ministry of Finance would be
responsible for implementing the reforms supported by ERC II.
10. Consulting Services. Consulting services will be required under
the program.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information based on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-3-



