Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2631-2 NI
(Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 17, 1995
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2631-2 NI
(Amendment)
Page  2
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Economic Recovery Credit), dated June 22, 1994, (the Development 
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in 
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into an Agreement Amending 
Development Credit (Second Economic Recovery Credit) dated June 22, 1994 whereby 
additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for the financing of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended:
(a)
in paragraph (j) the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 10,625,000" and the 
substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 15,025,000";
(b)
adding the word "and" after paragraph (p) thereof and replacing the colon by a 
semicolon;
(c)
adding a new subsection (q) to read as follows:
"(q)
"Second Amending Agreement" means the Second Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic Recovery Credit) between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated March 17, 1995."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty two million two hundred and sixty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,260,000) (the Credit), which includes an original 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty two million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,500,000), an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million three hundred and sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 5,360,000) (the Additional Financing) and an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,400,000) (the Second Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The proviso at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit 
Agreement is deleted and replaced by the following:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (A) the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement; 
and (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the 
date of the Second Amending Agreement."
Section 1.05. Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 37,235,000" and the substitution therefor 
of the amount "SDR 41,635,000".
Section 1.06. A new paragraph 7 is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement:
"7. After a date twelve months from the date of the Second Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Second Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to 
the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of 
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the 
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
Page  4
by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a date ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties 
hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development 
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been 
executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Emilio Pereira Alegría
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
