Page  1
June 23,2000
Mr. Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Managua, Nicaragua
Re:  Japanese Grant for the preparation of Nicaragua 
Competitiveness LIL
Grant No. TF 026313
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association 
(IDA) to indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided 
by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding US$ two hundred fifty 
thousand ($250,000) (the Grant) to the Government of Nicaragua (the 
Recipient). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its 
request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement 
countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the 
date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mrs. Donna. M. Dowsett - Coirolo 
Country Director, Nicaragua
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Estéban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Date:
July 24, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the 
Nicaragua Competitiveness LIL Project, (the Project) .  The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)  (1) Establishment, development and facilitation of sector clusters 
(economic actors - public and private - along a sector value chain) in rural 
and urban areas to identify action programs in their business sectors and (2) 
construction of a web-based information tool to communicate, learn and share 
knowledge among such cluster sectors. These actions are estimated to cost US$ 
49,000 equivalent. 
(b) Carrying out of: (1) a study to determine the existing management 
Page  2
options for improvement of the foreign investment promotion strategy; and (2) 
an assessment of  the supply chain management to analyze in the cluster 
sectors (i) the constraints to the competitive supply of trucking and 
maritime transport and (ii) warehousing and handling services related to 
international trade of non traditional export. These actions are estimated to 
cost US$ 26,000 equivalent.
(c) Carrying out of: (1) an assessment of the training services 
provided in the training institutes and at the firm level; (2) a survey to 
determine the training needs of clusters sectors and individual companies; 
(3)
an assessment of demand and supply of services to promote product and 
process quality and to promote internationally recognized standards in firms. 
These actions are estimated to cost $US 120,000 equivalent.
(d) Carrying out of a study on trade and export facilitation and 
related business services with the purpose of presenting options to deliver 
these services cost-effectively; including the identification of pilot 
companies to be integrated in an initiative to implement business and market 
networks which will provide information and facilitate trade and export using 
new technologies. These actions are estimated to cost of $31,000 equivalent   
(e) Coordination and management of the day to day actions of the 
project. This action is estimated to cost $US 24,000 equivalent.   
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for 
the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit IDA 
to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than April 30, 2001, or 
such later date as IDA may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date). Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
used to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and 
the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such 
approval.  After the Closing Date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining 
balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of IDA and shall be governed, except as otherwise 
decided by IDA by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, Nicaragua on the Consultants or any of the 
Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) 
in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at 
any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the 
right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the 
guarantee of the member country, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement 
with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended. IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has 
withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have 
no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to 
this Letter Agreement.
Page  3
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 
1997 (the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Attachment.
2.  
Services for the Activities identified in the Annex in paragraphs 1(a), 
1(b), 1(c), 1(d) and 1(e) shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of 
the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines (Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
