Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2631 NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1994
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 2631 NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF 
NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated May  5, 1994, 
(hereinafter called the Policy Letter) from the Borrower describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required during such 
execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications 
thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"’Project’ means the imports and other activities that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Page  3
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; 
and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Action Plan to Improve Prudential Supervision" means the plan 
contained in the letter from the Borrower’s Superintendency of Banks to the 
Association dated April 26, 1994;
(b)
"CORNAP" means Junta
General
de
Corporaciones
Nacionales
del
Sector
Público
,
the Borrower's holding corporation for companies wholly or 
partly owned by the Borrower;
(c)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 21,250,000 to be released by the Association on or after the 
Effective Date;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which commences on 
January 1 each year;
(e)
"Labor Mobility Program" means the program set forth in the 
Borrower's document entitled "Programa
de
Movilidad
Laboral
"
and dated 
March 1994;
(f)
"MCT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction and 
Transport;
(g)
"PETRONIC" means Empresa
Nicaragüense
del
Petróleo
,
the 
Borrower's petroleum company;
(h)
"Property Rights Improvement Program" means the Borrower's 
program for the improvement of the administrative procedures for the resolution 
of property rights disputes contained in paragraph 25 of the Policy Letter;
(i)
"Public Sector Reform Program" means the program, satisfactory to 
the Association, consistent with the Borrower's policy statement entitled "Carta 
Page  4
de Reforma del Estado
"
and dated March 22, 1994, to be prepared by the 
Borrower to address, inter alia, the following: (i) the restructuring of the public 
sector; (ii) civil service reform; (iii) budgetary and expenditure management 
reform; (iv) improved tax and customs administration; (v) administrative 
decentralization; and (vi) strengthening of the judicial and legislative branches;
(j)
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 10,625,000 to be released by the Association upon compliance 
by the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (a) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(k)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, 
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 343 (1986);
(l)
"Tariff Reduction Program" means the Borrower’s tariff reduction 
program contained in the letter from the Borrower to the Association dated 
March 18, 1994;
(m)
"TELCOR" means Instituto
Nicaragüense
de
Telecomunicaciones
y
Correos
, the Borrower's telecommunications and post office company;
(n)
"TELCOR Privatization Plan" means the plan for the privatization 
of TELCOR's international and domestic telecommunications operations  
contained in the letter from the Borrower to the Association dated April 27, 1994; 
and
(o)
"Third Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 10,625,000 to be released by the Association upon compliance 
by the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (b) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-two million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a
rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified 
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2004 and 
ending June 15, 2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable 
on June 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars 
for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
Page  6
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review 
and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring 
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested 
by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition 
has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The President of the Central Bank is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower 
hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for the preparation of 
withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents 
and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such 
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be 
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than 
$250,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, 
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program.
Page  7
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the expenditures under 
each of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third 
Tranche audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the end of each Fiscal 
Year or not later than ninety days after the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account has been made under each of the 
First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche, 
whichever comes first, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
Page  8
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and separate accounts are 
included in the audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic 
policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the 
Program.
Section 5.02. The date September 20, 1994 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Frente de Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
  BCN NK 2460
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
   82987 (FTCC)
   64145 (WUI) or
  197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Page  10
By /s/ Roberto Mayorga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to 
be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the 
SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
--
Alcoholic beverages
121
--
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
Page  11
122
--
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
--
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
--
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked
718
718.1
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
--
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 14,170,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
such expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1994;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than 
$5,000 equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
Page  12
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 
21,250,000 for petroleum products.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of 
goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 may be required by the Association 
upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such 
commitments shall have reached:
(a)
the equivalent of SDR 21,250,000 equivalent, unless the Association 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 3, Part 
A
of this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
the equivalent of SDR 31,875,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 3, Parts 
A
and B of this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association.
5.
If, after the exchanges of views described in paragraphs 4 (a) and (b) 
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Program or the actions taken pursuant to 
Schedule 3 are not satisfactory or that the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower is not consistent with the objectives of the Program and, within 90 
days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress or taken 
actions satisfactory to the Association or the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower continues to be not consistent with the objectives of the Program, 
Page  13
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive 
bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections 
I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following 
modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner 
of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to 
apply for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list, to apply for 
prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at 
least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, 
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development 
Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical 
journal of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of 
the goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the 
Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the 
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in 
international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
Page  14
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is 
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price 
will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors 
acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency 
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such 
an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(e)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1, 
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed 
with the Association.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
less than $3,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such 
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by 
the Association; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial 
practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation 
and comparison of quotations obtained from at least two suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the 
Association may be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded 
commodities may be procured through organized international commodity 
markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, 
provided, however, that in respect of petroleum imports under existing contracts 
entered into with oil suppliers, the Association shall finance out of the Credit: (a) 
an amount not to exceed, per unit, the average between lower and higher FOB 
prices reflected in the Platt’s Oilgram for the US Gulf Coast or the Caribbean, as 
applicable, for the relevant date of loading (with due adjustment for type and 
quality of crude or petroleum product); and (b) the cost of the related freight and 
Page  15
insurance procured on a competitive basis from a source eligible under the 
Guidelines.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the 
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, 
together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for 
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and 
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission 
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the 
Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in 
respect of such contract.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A
1.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the 
Labor Mobility Program.
2.
The Borrower shall have brought to the point of sale, offered for lease to 
the private sector, or ceased the operations of, at least 33 of CORNAP’s 
enterprises and one of MCT’s enterprises, and shall have made progress in the 
implementation of the TELCOR Privatization Plan.
3.
The Borrower shall have prepared and commenced implementation of the 
Public Sector Reform Program as provided therein.
4.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the 
Action Plan to Improve Prudential Supervision.
Page  16
5.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the 
Property Rights Improvement Program.
Part B
1.
The Borrower shall have made further progress in the implementation of 
the Labor Mobility Program. 
2.
The Borrower shall have: (a) completed the administrative procedures 
required for the sale, lease or liquidation of those of CORNAP’s and MCT’s 
enterprises that were, under the Program, to be sold, leased or liquidated; (b) 
discontinued PETRONIC’s gasoline distribution operations; and (c) defined the 
regulatory functions, if any, of PETRONIC in light of the Borrower’s policy of 
liberalization of the hydrocarbons sector.
3.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the 
Public Sector Reform Program including, in particular, in the restructuring of at 
least two major public institutions.
4.
The Borrower shall have made further progress in the implementation of 
the Action Plan to Improve Prudential Supervision.
5.
The Borrower shall have made further progress in the implementation of 
the Property Rights Improvement Program.
6.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the 
Tariff Reduction Program and shall have prepared an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the replacement of its export promotion scheme set forth in 
the Borrower’s Decree-Law 37-91 of August 21, 1991 by a duty drawback system 
or other temporary admission regime satisfactory to the Association.
