Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2631-3-NI
                                                              (Amendment)
                         Third Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
                     (Second Economic Recovery Credit)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated April 24, 1996
                                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2631-3-NI
                                                              (Amendment)
                         THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic Recovery
Credit), dated June 22, 1994, (the Development Credit
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into an
Agreement Amending Development Credit (Second Economic Recovery
Credit) dated June 22, 1994 whereby additional assistance was
made available to the Borrower for the financing of the
Program;
      (C)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Second Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement (Second
Economic Recovery Credit) dated March 17, 1995 whereby
additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for
the financing of the Program;
      (D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the
Program by increasing the amount made available under the
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special
Page  2
Drawing Rights (SDR3,900,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to provide such further additional
assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       Amendments of the Development
                             Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended:
      (a)   in paragraph (o) the deletion therefrom of the amount
"SDR10,625,000" and the substitution therefor of the amount
"SDR14,525,000";
      (b)   deleting the word "and" after paragraph (p), adding
the word "and" after paragraph (q) thereof and replacing the
period by a semicolon;
      (c)   adding a new paragraph (r) to read as follows:
            "(r)  "Third Amending Agreement" means the Third
      Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement (Second
      Economic Recovery Credit) between the Borrower and the
      Association, dated April 24, 1996.".
      Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
      Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
      referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount
      in various currencies equivalent to fifty six million one
      hundred and sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR56,160,000) (the Credit), which includes an original
      amount in various currencies equivalent to forty two
      million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR42,500,000), an additional amount in various
      currencies equivalent to five million three hundred and
      sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,360,000) (the
      Additional Financing), an additional amount in various
      currencies equivalent to four million four hundred
      thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR4,400,000) (the Second
      Additional Financing) and an additional amount in various
      currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred
      thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR3,900,000) (the Third
      Additional Financing).".
      Section 1.03. The proviso at the end of Section 2.04 (b)
(i) of the Development Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced
by the following:
            "; provided, however, that any commitment charge on:
      (A) the Additional Financing shall accrue from a date
      sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement; (B)
      the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date
      sixty days after the date of the Second Amending
      Agreement; and (C) the Third Additional Financing shall
      accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Third
      Amending Agreement;".
      Section 1.06. A new paragraph 8 is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
            "8. After a date twelve months from the date of the
      Third Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and
Page  3
      no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or
      on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to
      be financed out of the proceeds of the Third Additional
      Financing. At any time after such date, the Association
      may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
      amount of the Third Additional Financing from the Credit
      Account or any part thereof.".
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to
the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required
by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If
this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been
executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                        By /s/ Roberto Mayorga Cortes
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  4
