Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2631-1 NI
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1994
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2631-1 NI
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic Recovery Credit), dated June 22, 
1994, (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the 
financing of the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to five million three hundred and sixty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,360,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended:
(a)
deleting Subsection (c) thereof and substituting therefor the 
following Subsection (c):
"(c)
"First Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR 26,610,000, to be released by the Association on 
or after the Effective Date;"
(b)
adding a new subsection (p) to read as follows:
"(p)
"Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic Recovery Credit) between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated June 22, 1994."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty 
seven million eight hundred and sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 47,860,000) (the Credit), which includes an original amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty two million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,500,000) and an additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to five million three hundred and sixty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,360,000) (the Additional 
Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of 
the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement."
Page  3
Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 21,250,000" 
and the substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 26,610,000".
Section 1.05. Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 31,875,000" 
and the substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 37,235,000".
Section 1.06. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 
to the Development Credit Agreement:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be 
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to 
the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, this 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if 
this Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Page  4
By /s/ Roberto Mayorga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
