                          Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR3043



   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IBRD-74970)



                             ON A

                            LOAN

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 32.76 MILLION

                           TO THE

                 MUNICIPALITY OF RECIFE

                            FOR A

RECIFE URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL INCLUSION PROJECT

                      (Capibaribe Melhor)

    IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE $240 MILLION

       BRAZIL MUNICIPAL LENDING (APL) PROGRAM



                         April 14, 2014




              Sustainable Development Department
                 Brazil Country Management Unit
             Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                               i
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   Exchange Rate Effective March 28, 2014

                     Currency Unit = Brazilian real (R$)
                              1.00 = US$ 0.44
                            US$ 1.00 =R$ 2.26

                               FISCAL YEAR

                           January 1-December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (National Bank
          for Economic and Social Development)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEF       CEF Econômica Federal (Federal Savings and Loan Bank)
COFIEX    Commission on External Financing
COMPESA   Pernambuco State water supply and sanitation operator in the Project areas
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DPL       Development Policy Loan
EA        Environmental Assessment
IBGE      Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (Brazilian National
          Geography and Statistics Institute)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
MTR       Mid-Term Review Mission
PAC        Programa de Aceleração do Crescimento (Growth Acceleration Program)
PDO       Project Development Objective
PGFN      Ministry of Finance Legal Department
PHRD      Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMCM      National Housing Program (Minha Casa Minha Vida)
PMU       Project Management Unit
PT        Partido dos Trabalhadores (Workers’ Party)
RMR       Recife Metropolitan Region
STN       National Treasury Secretariat, Ministry of Finance
URB       Empresa de Urbanização do Recife (Recife Urban Development
          Company)
WSS       Water Supply and Sanitation
ZEIS      Zonas Especiais de Interesse Social (Special Social Interest Zones)
ZEPA      Zonas Especiais de Proteção Ambiental (Special Environmental
          Protection Zones)




                                      ii
      Vice President: Jorge Familiar Calderon
    Country Director: Deborah L. Wetzel
     Sector Manager: Anna Wellenstein
Project Team Leader: Marcos-Thadeu Abicalil
   ICR Team Leader: Marcos-Thadeu Abicalil




                    iii
                                                          BRAZIL

       Recife Urban Development and Social Inclusion Project (Capibaribe Melhor)


                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 39




                                                               iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Recife Urban
                                                                          Development and
Country:               Brazil                      Project Name:          Social Inclusion
                                                                          (CAPIBARIBE
                                                                          MELHOR)
Project ID:            P089013                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-74970
ICR Date:              12/26/2013                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                          MUNICIPALITY OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                         Borrower:
                                                                          RECIFE
Original Total
                       USD 32.76M                  Disbursed Amount:      USD 19.61M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 32.76M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: Recife Urban Development Company (URB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Borrower counterpart financing

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/18/2004        Effectiveness:           01/01/2008       10/14/2009
Appraisal:            05/22/2006        Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/20/2007        Mid-term Review:         10/03/2011       11/16/2011
                                        Closing:                 06/30/2013       10/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcome: Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome: High
Bank Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance: Moderately
Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
                                                                          Moderately
Quality at Entry:      Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                          Unsatisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank           Moderately                  Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:           Unsatisfactory              Performance:           Unsatisfactory

                                                   v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory
* Since the final ISR was approved in November 2013 after project closing, the data
sheet in the Bank system automatically includes ratings from the penultimate ISR instead,
creating the appearance of a disconnect in ratings. Actually, the last ISR did include“U”
ratings for both the DO and IP, aligned with the ratings of the ICR.

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                    25                    0
Other social services                                               15                  83
Urban Transport                                                     25                  17
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal                                   20                    0
Water supply                                                        15                    0


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                       29                  87
Municipal governance and institution building                       14                  11
Pollution management and environmental health                       14                  0
Urban services and housing for the poor                             29                  2
Water resource management                                           14                  0

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon            Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel                  Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:            Anna Wallenstein                   John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:       Marcos T. Abicalil                 Ivo Imparato
ICR Team Leader:           Marcos T. Abicalil
ICR Primary Author:        Klas B. Ringskog


                                                vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the well-being of the low-income population living in the Capibaribe River
Basin area of the city and the fiscal, urban and environmental management capacity of
the Recife Municipal Government.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target    Formally
                                                                             Actual Value
Project Development Baseline Value             Values         Revised
                                                                               Achieved
     Indicator       (Oct 2007)            (from approval      Target
                                                                              (Oct 2013)
                                             documents)        Values
1: Net consolidated
                                                                                  12%
debt to net current
                             28%               <40%          Not revised
revenue (NCD/NCR)
                                                                           (TARGET MET)
less than 40%
                                                                         Not available since
2: Property values of                                                    loan closed before
poorest housing                                                             investments
                           RS$ 12,000        RS$ 14,400      Not revised     completed.
increases by 20% due
to project investments
                                                                             (UNKNOWN)
3: Percentage of
                                          Water supply                   Not available since
population reporting                                                     loan closed before
                                          +10%
satisfaction
                                          Sanitation + 15%                 relevant project
improvements in: (i)                                                      components were
                                          Access and
Water Supply; (ii)             0                             Not revised     completed.
                                          Mobility +8%
Sanitation; (iii) Access
                                          Drainage +10%
and Mobility; (iv)
                                          Parks +25%                        (TARGET NOT
Drainage; (v) Parks;
                                          Environment                           MET)
(vi) Environment
                                          +15%
                               0
                                                                            16.6% increase
4: Municipality’s       In reality, the
                                                                            (TARGET NOT
urban management           Results
                                                                                MET)
capacity is enhanced, Framework was
                                              40% rise       Not revised
as evidenced by 40%      not updated
rise in number of                                                             1 ZEIS (Lemos
                      during Appraisal.
ZEIS                                                                       Torres) was created
                       6 ZEIS already
                                                                            in the Project area
                        existed in the
                                                                                 in 2013.
                         Project area

                                              vii
                       before Project
                         initiated.
                                                                                4

                                                                        (TARGET MET)
5: Municipality’s
environmental
management capacity                                                     4 ZEPAS were
is enhanced, as                                                        created between
evidenced by the              0            4 ZEPAS       Not revised   2006 and 2008:
establishment of 4                                                       Parque das
ZEPAS with                                                            Capivaras, 2006;
management                                                            Açude Apipucos,
frameworks                                                                  2006;
                                                                     Iputinga/Apipucos,
                                                                      2008; and Ilha do
                                                                         Zeca, 2008.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                                        Original Target
 Intermediate                                             Formally        Actual Value
                   Baseline Value        Values (from
   Outcome                                                Revised           Achieved
                    (Oct 2007)             approval
Indicator (IOI)                                         Target Values      (Oct 2013)
                                         documents)
1: Current
account                                                                        453
savings of              100                  128         Not revised
municipality                                                            (TARGET MET)
(RS mn)
2:                                                                      Deficit of R$ 96.54
Municipality                                                                    mn.
primary               R$ 50 mn             Positive      Not revised
balance                                                                  (TARGET NOT
improved                                                                     MET)
3: Personnel                                                                 46%
expenditure to
                        46%                      <45%    Not revised
net current                                                           (TARGET NOT
revenue                                                                     MET)
                                                                     Not available since
                                                                     loan closed before
                                                                       relevant project
4: Population
                                                                      components were
living in flood-        30%                  20%         Not revised
                                                                         completed.
prone areas
                                                                      (TARGET NOT
                                                                            MET)
5: Resettled                                                         Loan closed before
ZEIS                                                                   relevant project
households               0                  100%         Not revised components were
with legal land                                                          completed.
tenure

                                          viii
                                                   (TARGET NOT
                                                          MET)
                                                     581 people have
6: Number of
                                                  received vocational
residents
                                                   training in the Job
receiving         0     +100%         Not revised
                                                  Center rehabilitated
vocational
                                                      by the Project.
training
                                                   (TARGET MET)
                                                    There is no data
                                                       available on
                                                   concrete benefits.
                                                       However, the
                                                         Borrower
7: Percentage
                                                  performed a survey
of job center
                                                  which reported that
clients
                  0      +20%         Not revised       80% of the
reporting
                                                   beneficiaries who
concrete
                                                  received training at
benefits
                                                      the Job Center
                                                  rehabilitated by the
                                                       Project were
                                                         satisfied.
                                                   (TARGET MET).
8: Percentage                                               0
of target
population
                                                    (TARGET NOT
(2,000
                                                        MET)
catadores)        0          80%      Not revised
reporting
benefits of                                           The two planned
recycling                                           triage centers were
triage centers                                           not built.
                                                  Borrower reported
9: Number of
                                                    that 400 people
people
                                                    benefited from
benefiting
                  0     +100%         Not revised    environmental
from
                                                  education activities
environmental
                                                  in the Project area.
education
                                                   (TARGET MET)
10: Percentage                                    Not available since
of                                                loan closed before
environmental                                       relevant project
education                                          components were
participants      0   +50% in 2009    Not revised     completed.
recalling at
least three key
messages of
the program                                          (UNKNOWN)
11: People in                                         This is a core
                  0   Not available   Not revised
urban areas                                           indicator not

                        ix
provided with                                                                     originally included
access to                                                                         in the PAD. Target
Improved                                                                           not met since loan
Water Sources                                                                        closed before
under project 1                                                                     relevant project
                                                                                   components were
                                                                                       completed.

                                                                                   (TARGET NOT
                                                                                      MET)

                                                                                    This is a core
                                                                                     indicator not
                                                                                 originally included
12: People in                                                                    in the PAD. Target
urban areas                                                                       not met since loan
provided with                                                                       closed before
access to                     0                Not available         Not revised   relevant project
Improved                                                                          components were
Sanitation                                                                            completed.
under project
                                                                                   (TARGET NOT
                                                                                       MET)
Note: An error in the target value formulation, where percentage increases from a
baseline of zero are specified as targets, was discovered during the ICR creation process.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
          Date ISR
    No.                            DO                           IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
     1    02/13/2008        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                             0.00
     2    09/11/2008        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                             0.00
                             Moderately              Moderately
     3    03/19/2009                                                                           0.00
                           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
     4    12/11/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        0.00
     5    06/11/2010    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        0.00
                                                     Moderately
     6    02/23/2011    Moderately Satisfactory                                                0.12
                                                   Unsatisfactory
     7    09/14/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        3.95
     8    03/11/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        6.65



1
  As per OPCS recommendation core indicators were introduced in the ISR and in the Borrower's progress
reports. However, as restructuring was not proceeded, they were not formally included in the PAD.
Although not mandatory for projects approved before 2009 the team adopted OPCS guidance and included
the core indicators in the ICR.


                                                  x
  9    10/31/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory   13.98
                         Moderately              Moderately
 10    04/10/2013                                                     16.75
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 11    11/11/2013      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory         19.53


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1. The Recife Urban Development and Social Inclusion Project (Capibaribe Melhor)
   was a multi-sectorial urban operation focusing on poverty alleviation in the city of
   Recife through: (i) physical interventions in the territory along a section of the
   Capibaribe River; (ii) social and local economic development activities; and (iii)
   improvement of urban and environmental management aspects. The Project was
   prepared from 2003 through 2007, approved by the World Bank Board on December
   20, 2007, and declared effective on October 14, 2009.

2. During Project preparation from 2004-2007, insufficient attention was paid to the
   capacity of the Recife Municipality (Prefeitura) to prepare and implement such an
   ambitious project with the limited financial resources available. Further complicating
   the Project, implementation did not begin until 2010 after a two year delay in
   declaring the loan effective due to obstacles in obtaining the National Treasury’s
   clearance. Implementation took place almost entirely during the years 2010-2012,
   after which the Project again stalled to discuss a planned restructuring, which in the
   end did not materialize. Due to massive cost underestimations, the Prefeitura was
   obliged to identify and secure large additional sources of financing to complete some
   Project activities.

3. The original Project closing date of June 30, 2013 was extended for an additional 4
   months to allow for a planned restructuring.. In the end, despite two attempts, the
   restructuring did not advance and the loan closed on October 31, 2013, with a
   substantial portion of Project activities still incomplete.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

4. At the time of appraisal, comparable to the current situation, more than 80% of
   Brazil’s population lived in urban areas, where most of the nation’s GDP was
   generated. Income was unevenly distributed, and poverty was increasingly urban: the
   urban poor had lower incomes, lagged in educational standards, suffered from worse
   health, lived in housing units of lower quality, and had less access to different kinds
   of urban infrastructure than their wealthier counterparts. Targeting investments and
   programs toward the urban poor became a way of reducing such functional poverty.
   With a population of 3.3 million at the time of the preparation of the Capibaribe
   Melhor Project, the Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR) was the fourth largest urban
   agglomeration in Brazil as well as the one with the most unequal income distribution.
   More than half of the population was employed in the informal sector, about 77% of
   its families earned less than two minimum salaries, and nearly 50% earned less than
   one minimum salary2.




2
    The minimum salary in Brazil was BRL350 in 2006, at the time of project appraisal.


                                                      1
5. The Project was designed to sustainably reduce urban poverty by strengthening the
   fiscal, urban and environmental management capacity of the Recife municipality, and
   by improving urban infrastructure. It included investments in: (i) integrated water
   supply and sanitation (WSS) development in a number of low-income communities
   (i.e., expanding and enhancing water supply, sewerage, drainage, paving, urban
   upgrading, housing / resettlement 3, tenure regularization and related activities); (ii)
   the rehabilitation and expansion of two existing public parks, and the construction of
   another one; (iii) the improvement of the water flow, the reduction of flood incidence,
   the resettlement of people living in risk prone areas and the overall upgrading of the
   margins of 11 drainage canals on the Recife flatlands; and (iv) the construction of a
   bridge over the Capibaribe river and overall improvement of accessibility and
   mobility to and within the Project area.

6. Together with Olinda, the municipality of Recife had earlier been part of the Bank-
   financed Recife Urban Upgrading Project (Prometropole), implemented through a
   loan to the State of Pernambuco, with the participation of both the state and the
   municipalities in the low income areas alongside the Beberibe river. Designed in
   2001 and implemented from October 2003 to March 2011, the Prometropole project
   focused on improving the built and natural environment of the Beberibe River Basin
   in the Metropolitan Region of Recife, and aimed at improving the living conditions of
   the basin's approximately 500,000 inhabitants living in low-income settlements along
   the river's margins. Prometropole’s approach, which resulted in a “Moderately
   Satisfactory” outcome, set the foundation for Capibaribe Melhor.

7. The underlying design of the Project was to use the Capibaribe River as a
   development vector, concentrating on the 30 Km of the river within the Recife
   municipal borders. The mixture of urban infrastructure investments, rehabilitation,
   social infrastructure, and capacity building was to underpin complementary
   investments, including more remote possibilities such as establishing a simple river
   navigation system to complement road transport in the congested city and expanding
   wastewater treatment to improve the water quality of the Capibaribe River. Such
   plans were early iterations of the integrated urban-water management approach that
   the World Bank has supported in more recent years.

8. At the time of the early Project identification in 2003, municipalities in Brazil were
   reaping the benefits of the 1998 Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal (Fiscal
   Responsibility Law), which strengthened public finances both in states and in
   municipalities. However, severe fiscal restrictions on public sector borrowing were in
   place, and many municipalities still found it difficult to access long-term credit. The
   Government and the World Bank therefore developed a series of credits wherein the
   Bank would lend directly to municipalities for projects to improve urban


3
 Overall some 1,500 families at the time residing in sub-standard unplanned urban settlements along the
Capibaribe River were planned to be resettled.


                                                    2
    infrastructure, strengthen municipal fiscal management capacity, and confront urban
    and environmental challenges such as those posed by the growth of unplanned and
    underserved low-income communities. The Brazil Municipal Lending Program was
    structured as a Horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL).

9. The first group of municipalities to receive direct Bank assistance included Uberaba,
   Teresina, Santos, Sao Luis, and Recife 4. Each project focused on: (i) favoring social
   inclusion and increasing equity in the provision of public services; (ii) generating
   employment; (iii) making infrastructure services more equitable between regions and
   within municipalities; (iv) integrating economic and environmental development; and
   (v) involving civil society more in development decisions. This innovative approach
   also intended to provide cross-municipal learning.

10. Capibaribe Melhor was aligned with Bank municipal lending guidelines as well as
    the objectives of the 2004-2007 Brazil Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
    encouraged decentralization through building and enhancing the capacity of
    municipalities to manage their economic and urban growth. It was also well aligned
    with the priorities and objectives of the national Programa de Aceleração do
    Crescimento (PAC), launched on January 28, 2007, shortly before the Capibaribe
    Melhor Board presentation. The PAC financing was substantial and, for the Northeast
    region in particular, planned social and urban investments accounted for more than
    half of the total regional budget envelope. The PAC, through grants from the National
    Budget and loans from the Brazilian Federal Savings and Financing Bank (CEF), was
    an alternative source of financing for some of the components under the Capibaribe
    Melhor.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

11. The Project Development Objective is: to improve the well-being of the low-income
    population living in the Capibaribe River Basin area of the city and the fiscal, urban
    and environmental management capacity of the Recife Municipal Government.
    Attainment of the development objective was measured by the following set
    indicators and targets: (i) net consolidated debt to net current revenue (NCD/NCR)
    less than 40%; (ii) property values of the poorest housing increases by 20% due to
    project investments; (iii) the percentage of the population reporting satisfaction
    improvements with water supply, sanitation, access and mobility, drainage, parks and
    environment; (iv) the municipality’s urban management capacity is enhanced, as
    evidenced by a 40% increase in the number of ZEIS (Social Interest Special Zones);
    and (v) the municipality’s environmental management capacity is enhanced, as


4
 Of these five projects, only Uberaba (with a “Moderately Satisfactory” outcome) and Recife have closed
so far. Santos, Sao Luis, and Teresina have had similar problems to Recife in terms of costing and time
needed for completion. The second group involved 5 municipalities in the state of Rio Grande do Sul – Rio
Grande do Sul Integrated Municipal Development Program, closed on December 31, 2013, for which the
ICR was not completed at the time of the Recife ICR.


                                                    3
   evidenced by the establishment of 4 ZEPAS (Protected Environmental Special Zones)
   with management frameworks.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12. The Project Development Objectives (PDO) and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13. At the time of Project preparation Recife had a low-income population of around
    660,000 living in about 420 informal low-income settlements, the majority of which
    had sprung up on the banks of the Beberibe and Capibaribe rivers. Approximately 23
    of these low-income settlements were located along the Capibaribe River, 6 of which
    had been classified as Zonas de Especial Interesse Social (ZEIS), eligible for special
    support. This population was the primary target group of the Capibaribe Melhor. It
    was estimated that 263,000 people in some 70,000 households would directly benefit
    from the total Project investments of USD 46.8 million.

14. Given that the sustainability of the Project’s efforts to reduce functional poverty
    among the target population would be contingent on enhanced fiscal, urban, and
    environmental capacity on the part of the Recife municipality, a small portion of the
    loan proceeds were earmarked to underpin the fiscal and management performance of
    the Recife municipality through technical assistance.

1.5 Original Components

15. At approval the Project consisted of three components: (i) Institutional Development;
    (ii) Integrated Urban Territorial Development; and (iii) Social, Environmental, and
    Economic Development of the Territory.

16. The Institutional Development component, in an amount of US$ 4.728 million, or
    10.1% of the total Project costs, comprised studies to help the Recife Municipality
    improve its monitoring and evaluation and strategic planning; strengthening of its
    capacity in the areas of environmental and urban management; financing of a Project
    Management Unit within the URB (Recife Urban Development Company)
    implementing agency; and funding of associated studies as needed.

17. The Integrated Urban Territorial Development component, in an amount of
    US$ 40.25 million, or 86.0% of the total Project costs, comprised planned
    investments to build or improve water supply and sewerage systems for the target
    population (US$ 20.0 million, or 42.7% of the total Project costs); works to upgrade
    two existing public parks and build a third one (US$ 5.0 million, or 10.7% of the total
    Project costs); investments to rehabilitate and improve macro-drainage to reduce the
    risks of flooding in the Project areas (US$ 4.25 million, or 9.1% of the total Project
    costs); and the construction of a bridge across the Capibaribe River and of three


                                            4
    connecting roads to improve communications across the river (US$ 11.0 million, or
    23.5% of the total Project costs).

18. The Environmental, Social, and Economic Development component, in an amount of
    US$ 1.74 million, or 3.7% of total project costs, comprised activities designed to
    promote income generation, environmental education, sports and culture, and
    community development.

19. The detailed original Project costs, in absolute and relative terms, are shown in Annex
    1, Table 1.

1.6 Revised Components

20. None, as the Project was never revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

21. Closing date. The Project closing date was extended by four months to October 31,
    2013, but no official modifications to the Project scope were introduced. 5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22. Integrated, multi-sectorial municipal-scale approach to urban development.
    Capibaribe Melhor was one of an early phase of integrated urban water management
    projects that pioneered a multi-sectorial approach that would not become widespread
    in Bank-supported projects for several years. Following Prometropole’s approach,
    this Project used the Capibaribe River to define the Project’s geographical scope, and
    encompassed wide-ranging interventions. This unusual scope (including
    environmental and urban management, income generation and urban amenities
    aspects) also had the complementary impact of calling attention to the importance of
    the Capibaribe River itself, which has continued to have positive ripple effects on
    other regional institutions such as the CEF and Federal Ministries. Additionally,
    Capibaribe Melhor was one of the first examples of direct World Bank lending to a
    municipality in Brazil, in parallel to another four such urban development projects in
    Brazil. However, these innovations meant that the projects were attempting new and
    different approaches for which the lessons from earlier and ongoing operations were
    limited and the risks were easy to underestimate. This does not fully explain the
    Bank’s large underestimation of Project costs and overestimation of the capacity of




5
 Section 2.2 describes two restructurings attempts proposed by the Borrower at the end of 2012 and the
end of 2013, and the reasons why they were not processed by the Bank.


                                                    5
    the Recife Municipality to prepare and implement a project of the magnitude and
    complexity envisaged 6.

23. Mismatch between objectives and resources. The financing of the Project was vastly
    insufficient for achieving the ambitious PDO, and allocations by component were not
    adequate to achieve intermediate objectives. The lack of realistic estimates, and
    corresponding allocations, for activity costs was due to the paucity of technical
    designs created during the preparation period. The Project attracted wide buy-in from
    different sectors of the Recife Municipal Administration during preparation, and
    geographically varied areas of the Recife Municipality sought Project financing.
    Although this wide participation was positive in anchoring the Project politically, it
    also unduly stretched the financing envelope, as defined by the capacity of the Recife
    Municipality to borrow, over an expanding number of areas.

24. Insufficient resource allocation for building management capacity and reaching
    fiscal PDO targets. Funding allocations did not match the scope of the three main
    components or the PDO. In particular, although about 10% of the Project costs were
    originally allocated for Institutional Development, the bulk of this was for Project
    Management and only about 2% went towards building urban management capacity
    within the Recife municipality. Also, the PDO contained targets for the sustained
    fiscal performance of the Recife Municipality without significant allocation of
    resources to support the Municipality’s fiscal performance. In addition, reaching such
    broad fiscal indicators would require a comprehensive fiscal program, aligned with
    the fiscal responsibility law and by-law norms, well beyond the scope and reach of
    the Project 7. Despite these limitations, the Project’s ambitious design was successful
    in bringing about real impacts in terms of capacity building locally. One institution,
    URB, was responsible for managing all physical interventions as well as a broad
    scope of actors. This high degree of local ownership strengthened coordination and
    Project management capacity within the organization, as evidenced by the ability
    shown by URB in accessing various outside sources of financing (such as PAC and
    MCMV) to complete Project activities.

25. Social development objectives almost unfunded. Social outreach included activities
    aiming at promoting citizen participation, economic development and environmental
    education, as well as investments to improve infrastructure in the Project area. This
    component financed the rehabilitation of a local Job Generation Center, the
    Management Plan for the 3 parks financed under the Project, and consulting services
    for the social work supporting resettlement in the Project area, the latter currently still
    under implementation. Although the PDO included important goals in terms of social


6
  See Section 2.2, Paragraph 33 and Annex 1, Paragraph 3 for a more in-depth explanation and analysis of
Project cost overestimations.
7
  The Project PAD foresaw “implementation of a multi-annual program of fiscal adjustment to ensure the
long-run sustainability of the municipal fiscal accounts” in the Risks section; however, this was not
correspondingly provided for in the activities.


                                                    6
    development under the objective of “improving the well-being of the low-income
    population,” actual allocations to this area were very limited at only 3.9% of total
    Project costs. Due to Project implementation issues, only about half of this amount
    was actually spent – however, had Project implementation been more successful, the
    allocated amount would almost certainly have been insufficient to fulfill the PDO.

26. Excessive preparation time eroded municipal support. The preparation of the Project
    took an unduly long time from the first identification in 2003 through Board approval
    on December 20, 2007, due in a large part to excessive pre-implementation social and
    environmental analysis. This lengthy preparation 8 tested municipal and political
    patience in Recife, where expectations had built up during years of preparation. In the
    end, the commitment of the Recife Municipality no doubt suffered due to the
    slowness of the Project to produce tangible results. It should be noted that lengthy
    preparation was common also for other urban projects during this period.

27. Shortcomings in technical preparation impeded Project readiness. It appears that a
    strong focus on broad social and environmental analyses at the expense of technical
    designs during the 2003-2006 preparation period hampered actual implementation
    readiness at Project rollout in 2009. A stronger commitment to practical planning and
    design during the preparation period might have enabled faster implementation at
    loan effectiveness.

2.2 Implementation

28. Delayed startup of Project implementation (2007-2009). The start-up of Project
    implementation was much delayed. Almost two years passed between World Bank
    Board approval on December 20, 2007 and the signing of the Loan Agreement on
    September 3, 2009, with effectiveness on October 14, 2009. This long delay, beyond
    the usual maximum period of 18 months, required an exception from the World Bank.
    This delay was due to the time-consuming procedure to obtain Federal approval for
    the sub-national loan—while the Federal approval process usually takes about six
    months, in the case of Capibaribe Melhor it required almost two years. The main
    reason for the protracted procedures was Recife Municipality’s non-compliance with
    the fiscal limits and required certification of mandatory expenditures imposed by the
    Federal Fiscal Responsibility Law. The Bank/CMU cannot intervene in the approval
    process of a subnational loan in Brazil at the Federal Level. A sophisticated
    monitoring system is in place to ensure municipalities’ compliance with the Fiscal
    Responsibility Law, and any pending issue identified by this system automatically
    suspends the Loan Agreement process. The Bank, both in Management Letters and in
    permanent dialogue with the Borrower, urged the Municipality’s swift compliance



8
 The identification mission was held in March 2004 and Pre-negotiation mission held in May, 2007.
During this interval the Borrower had to hire consulting services to support Project preparation and to
develop studies required by Bank team. The first supervision mission was held on December, 2009.


                                                     7
    with Federal fiscal requirements in order to expedite the signing of the Loan
    Agreement 9.

29. Despite delays, 2007-2009 were not “lost years,” since detailed engineering designs
    for the proposed works were contracted in 2008 and developed in 2009 and 2010.
    Once declared effective, the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the World Bank
    (with changed task management) discovered the substantial cost underestimates 10.

30. Substantial underestimation of Project costs and prioritization of Bank resources.
    The original Project financing comprised US$ 32.76 million under the World Bank
    loan and US$ 14.04 million in counterpart funding for a total of US$ 46.8 million.
    This financing proved to be far below the actual projected total costs, which are now
    estimated at US$ 193.08 million, more than four times the original estimate (For
    detailed costs see Annex 1, Table 1). 11 These higher costs made it necessary to
    channel limited Bank financing towards a few priority sub-components of the Project,
    those: (i) aligned with the PDO, (ii) in a more advanced stage of engineering designs,
    and (iii) whose costs were closer to the real purchasing power of the Project. In the
    following supervision mission 12 the Municipality presented to the Bank the
    investments that would receive Bank funds and the ones that would be financed by
    other sources of financing, particularly the PAC Program.

31. During actual Project implementation, in accordance with the priorities agreed upon
    with the Borrower, Bank funding financed: (i) Component 1: US$ 2.2 million for the
    acquisition and implementation of a staff control system for URB, and for overall
    Project management; (ii) Component 2: US$ 16.9 million for the construction of a
    bridge across the Capibaribe River with associated access roads; improvements to
    urban roads subsystems A, B and C; renovation and expansion of two existing public
    parks and the construction of another one; (iii) Component 3: US$ 0.39 million for
    the improvement of a job center and social consulting services; and (iv) Front End
    Fee: US$ 0.08 million.

32. The priorities for Bank funding were thus reduced in scope, although no formal
    restructuring took place, and a search began for alternative sources of financing for




9
  During this period the Bank, learning from this and other similar situations, established a system with the
Federal Government whereby Project concept does not go ahead until the Carta Consulta has been
approved by the Federal Government. This has greatly improved project preparation and approval times,
bringing them down to about 11 months during the current CPS period.
10
   As stated in the aid-memoire of the first supervision mission, held in December, 2009. During this
mission the Bank team identified that the Project should be restructured and requested the Municipality to
start preparing necessary technical, economic and legal assessments.
11
   The estimated Project total costs (through full completion of its original scope) are from the URB, the
Recife Urban Development Company.
12
   Supervision mission of May, 2010.


                                                      8
     the components identified as unlikely to be completed with Bank funding. 13 These
     included the water supply and sewerage works, the macro-drainage system, and
     construction of housing to resettle the families affected by these two components, all
     of which are now being financed by national programs and institutions: PAC I and II
     for the integrated WSS works and the macro-drainage, and Minha Casa Minha Vida
     (National Housing Program – PMCM) for the resettlement housing.

33. Cost underestimations and loss in loan purchasing power. The total original
    financing envelope of US$ 46.80 million was far below the latest estimated cost of
    US$ 193.08 million for full completion of Project activities. In order to quantify and
    understand the magnitude of the impact of cost underestimations during
    implementation of the Project, this analysis considered Bank disbursements, which
    amounted to US$19.527 through the first quarter of 2014 14 . When performing a
    comparison for the correspondent amount in BRL following (i) the Project exchange
    rate at appraisal 15; (ii) the actual exchange rate and (iii) after discounting inflation 16 in
    the construction sector, conclusions are as follows:

     •   The depreciation of the BRL versus the USD, which started towards the end of
         2012, was actually beneficial to the Project. Actual disbursements were worth 5%
         more than would have been the case if the original exchange rate projections had
         held true;
     •   The impact of inflation was negative– either 19% (if considering the originally
         projected disbursements) or 15% (if considering the actual disbursements, in this
         case combining impact of inflation and exchange rate depreciation);

34. Given that actual Project costs are now estimated at four times the original cost
    estimates, this 15% drop in purchase power accounts for only a fraction of the cost
    underestimation. Flawed project design remains by far the most important factor. This
    confirms the essential importance of detailed technical specifications and engineering
    designs at appraisal. Additionally it should be noted that the boom in construction in
    Brazil and the launch of PAC program created additional difficulties for the early
    start of the project, affecting, for instance, the managerial capacity of the Borrower to
    proceed with simultaneous bidding and contracting processes for distinct source of
    resources and applicable rules and reducing the number of bidders in bidding
    processes.




13
   See Paragraphs 34-37 of this section (pages 9-10) for a more complete explanation of restructuring
attempts.
14
   Table 3 in Annex 1 provides the detailed analysis.
15
   At appraisal, projections indicated disbursements would end at 2Q2013 and, therefore, there are no
projections for the exchange rate for future quarters. We considered exchange rate stable at R$1.8 per USD
for future quarters.
16
   Paragraph 2 in Annex 1 provides the detailed analysis of the impact of inflation in construction costs..


                                                    9
35. Unsuccessful attempts to perform a project restructuring. By mid-2010, it was clear
    to the Bank Task Team that restructuring would be needed due to the underestimation
    of Project costs and implementation time required. However, the Team decided to
    focus on implementation and procurement given the already substantial delays in that
    area, and planned to initiate restructuring at the Mid-Term Review Mission (MTR) in
    November 2011. At the MTR, the Team and the Borrower agreed to a restructuring
    that included a substantial increase in counterpart funding and covered most of the
    original Project scope, anticipating possible Additional Financing from the Bank to
    complete the implementation of all Project activities. This first restructuring attempt
    included: (i) a slightly changed Project scope; (ii) a modified results framework; (iii)
    adjusted loan allocation and disbursement percentages; (iv) changed total Project
    costs, to reflect the increased counterpart funding; (v) modified eligible procurement
    methods and (vi) a two-stage (12+10) month extension of the Closing Date to April
    30, 2015. This first restructuring request was submitted to the Federal guarantor
    COFIEX 17 by the Borrower on August 20, 2012, approved on September 12, 2012,
    and the Bank informed of the approval on October 18, 2012.

36. Shortly after the Government’s endorsement of the proposed restructuring, municipal
    elections in Recife brought a new Mayor-elect to power, who requested that the Bank
    continue to postpone Project activities pending review by the new administration. The
    new Mayor had previously been Secretary of Planning at the State level and had
    overseen implementation of the Expanding Opportunities, Enhancing Equity In The
    State Of Pernambuco DPL. After the inauguration of his term, the new Mayor met
    with the Brazil Country Director to request a similar Development Policy Loan for
    Recife 18. On meeting with the new administration team in February 2013, the Bank
    team learned that staff in the PMU in the Recife Urban Development Company
    (URB) had been gradually dismissed from early 2013 onwards, signaling reduced
    municipal ownership of the Project.,. However, a 4 month extension to the final
    closing date of October 31, 2013 was approved to allow time for a revised Project
    Restructuring.

37. On August 28, the Borrower requested a second restructuring with no additional
    counterpart financing and a substantially reduced Project scope, with the goal of
    finishing the Project within the additional 22 months. The lengthy restructuring
    approval process by the Federal guarantor had to be repeated for the new proposal.
    Although the second request was approved by the Federal guarantor on October 9,
    2013, official notification of the approval was only received.by the Bank on
    December 2, 2013, a month after Project closing.



17
   In Brazil any sub-national project restructuring and loan amendment has to be submitted and endorsed by
the Federal Government (the Guarantor), through COFIEX – External Financing Commission under the
Ministry of Planning.
18
   The request for a DPL represented a shift in strategy from the previous administration, which was
considering an Additional Financing for the Project after the first restructuring.


                                                   10
   38. The Loan closed on October 31, 2013. None of the components were completed by
       closure. About US$ 13.15 million (40%) of the Bank loan will be canceled.


                   Table 1. Project Restructuring Attempts and Closing Date Extension
                   Submitted by                   Bank
                                   Approved                          Additional                   Closing
                   the Borrower                  Notified                            Project                 Confirm
                                    by the                   Type    Counterpar                    Date
                       to the                     of the                             Scope                   ed
                                   Guarantor                         t Financing                 Extension
                    Guarantor                    Approval
                                                                                     Largely
                                                                     Substantial
                                                                                       same
First                               Sept. 12     Oct. 18,    Level    additional
                   Aug. 20, 2012                                                     original    22 months     No
Restructuring                        2012         2012         I     counterpart
                                                                                      project
                                                                      financing
                                                                                      scope
                                                                       In June 2013, CMU
Closing Date                                                            approved 4 month
                         -                                                                       4 months
Extension                                                            extension. through Oct.                   Yes
                                                                             31, 2013
                                                  Dec. 3,                           Substantia
                                                                         No
                                                   2013                                 lly
Second                                                       Level    additional
                   Aug. 28, 2013   Oct. 9 2013   (AFTER                              reduced     22 months     No
Restructuring                                                  I     counterpart
                                                  Closing                             project
                                                                      financing
                                                   Date)                              scope


   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

   39. The monitoring indicators under the Bank loan remain the original ones, since no
       proposed restructuring was ever finalized. The 5 PDO indicators and 12 Intermediate
       Outcome Indicators 19 are provided in the Datasheet.

   40. The design of the Project’s Results Framework was seriously flawed:

          •     Activities were not linked to particular indicators. This is the case for the “Net
                Current Revenue over Net Current Debt” PDO indicator and for three
                Intermediate Results Indicators, for which the target could be achieved
                independent of any Project financing or activity;
          •     Indicators were not simple and unequivocal and would have required special
                studies, before and after the Project, to be measured. The property values of
                poorest houses, the increase in percentage of population satisfied with urban
                services PDO indicators, the percentage of job center clients reporting concrete
                benefits, the percentage of target population reporting benefits of recycling triage
                centers, the percentage of environmental education participants recalling at least
                three key messages of the program, and the number of people benefiting from
                environmental education – all Intermediate Results indicators – would have
                required special studies/surveys that were not planned or budgeted at appraisal,
                and ultimately were not carried out. It would have been preferable to select


   19
        Including two core indicators not included in the PAD.



                                                            11
       indicators linked to performance indicators routinely collected by institutions such
       as COMPESA, the state water supply and sanitation operator in the Project areas,
       or different departments of the Recife municipality;
   •   The methodology for estimating indicators and the manner in which targets were
       originally set was not clearly defined. For example, when referring to the six sub-
       indicators under No. 3 it was not clear whether a target percentage increase of
       10% refers to an increase of ten percentage points (as from 50% to 60%), or to a
       relative increase (as from 50% to 55%). Additionally, for several indicators a goal
       of a percentage increase from zero was identified, leaving the actual target unclear.

41. As a result of the substantially reduced scope of activities carried out with Bank
    funding and of the delayed Project implementation, many of the indicators were never
    calculated and the monitoring and evaluation suffered accordingly. Additionally,
    from the beginning there was minimal Borrower ownership of the Project indicators,
    which weakened reporting on the Results Framework. However, URB systematically
    turned in Project Progress Reports each semester, as agreed, with qualitative
    information on Project activities and issues faced, social and environmental aspects,
    fiduciary aspects, and other aspects not directly related with the Project indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42. The safeguards refer to the environmental, financial management, procurement and
    resettlement aspects. The Project was classified as a Category A, and triggered the
    following Bank safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural
    Habitats (OP 4.04), Pest Management (4.09), Cultural Property (OP 4.11), and
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).

43. The environmental safeguards were well prepared, with an Environmental Impact
    Assessment and Environmental Management Plan of exceptional quality completed
    in 2004. Compliance with environmental safeguards was supervised during
    implementation and was as a rule Satisfactory. Satisfactory compliance was also
    achieved for the financial management safeguards. Compliance with the procurement
    safeguards was also generally Satisfactory. The Recife Urban Management Company,
    URB, proved to be proficient in applying the Bank’s procurement guidelines.

44. Compliance with the resettlement safeguards is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
    social safeguards documents (Involuntary Resettlement Framework) were overall
    considered to be of good quality. However, at the time of Loan Closing the
    resettlement of about 760 families affected by the construction of the road system and
    bridge over the Capibaribe River, and integrated urban upgrading and macro-drainage
    works was still pending (Refer to Table 2). Bank supervision did manage to
    strengthen the protection of resettled households through the preparation of three
    Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs). RAPs related to the Project activities financed by
    national programs (such as PAC) were developed in compliance with the applicable
    Bank rules, and incorporated the inception of grievance procedures.



                                            12
45. World Bank resettlement policies will apply even though the above described works
    will not be finished until June 2018, well beyond the Loan Closing date of October 31,
    2013. Accordingly, the Bank will continue supervising the resettlement of these 763
    families 20. It should be noted that the Borrower developed and agreed with the Bank
    on an action plan for the satisfactory completion of the RAPs, as well as on a
    monitoring strategy. They have also provided all the financial and legal guarantees
    that the above will be carried out.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46. The two components financed by the World Bank, i.e. the three public parks and the
    bridge with its access roads and urban roads subsystems A, B and C, will be
    operational once commissioned by departments of the Recife municipality. For the
    three parks, special management plans have been prepared but it is still uncertain how
    well-anchored they are within the municipal administration. There are plans to
    expand the use of closed circuit cameras to monitor the parks and reduce the risk that
    they may become the domain of criminal gangs. Reportedly, public surveillance and
    transit control cameras have been effective elsewhere in town to reduce crime and
    loss of public domains. The operation and maintenance of the bridge and access roads
    are as yet somewhat distant, but will be the responsibility of the roads department of
    the Recife municipality. Although no future monitoring and evaluation plan for the
    Project is in place, the Bank will continue supervision of the Project after the closing
    date, particularly for the works which started implementation during the term of the
    Loan Agreement. This will include follow-up on the functioning of infrastructure and
    services supported by the Project.

                             Table 2. Pending Works after Project Closing
                                            Expected Date of
                 Pending Works                                           Impacts on Safeguards
                                              Completion

          Construction, Rehabilitation,   Santana: Completed
          and/or Expansion of             Apipucos: Partially
     1.                                                           None
          Apipucos, Caiara, and           Completed
          Santana Urban Parks             Full Completion: June
                                          2014
                                          4 of 11 canals
          Integrated Urban Upgrading
                                          completed
          and Macrodrainage Works
          (PAC financed)
     2.                                   May 2015
          Casarao do Barbalho Housing                             Resettlement of 403 families
          Complex for the Affected        October 2014
          Families (PAC)


20
  For the households to be affected by works under the integrated WSS works, which will not be carried
out through World Bank financing and have not yet been started, the Brazilian involuntary resettlement
policies will apply. However, the related RAP (in compliance with OP 4.12) was developed with the
assistance of the Bank earlier in Project implementation.



                                                     13
                                       Expected Date of
             Pending Works                                      Impacts on Safeguards
                                         Completion
       Road System and Bridge over                        Resettlement of at most 360 families.
                                     April 2015
       Capibaribe River                                   As per the suggestion of the Bank
                                                          team, the Borrower is currently
                                                          revising the detailed designs for the
  3.   Housing Development for the
                                                          bridge. Besides reducing costs, this
       Affected Families (Minha      June 2016
                                                          will safeguard a school (which would
       Casa Minha Vida)
                                                          otherwise be affected) and reduce the
                                                          number of affected people.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

47. The relevance of the Capibaribe Melhor is rated High. At the time of approval, it was
    well aligned with the objectives of the Brazil CAS to decentralize many decisions by
    building urban fiscal, environmental, and urban management capacity. The objectives
    to increase the well-being of the urban poor remain valid under subsequent Country
    Partnership Strategies. Despite the disappointing outcome of many of the Project
    components, Capibaribe Melhor has shown substantial resiliency in terms of the need
    to support integrated urban development, surviving three political cycles and
    continuing to be recognized as an entity both by the community at large and
    institutions such as CEF and Federal ministries.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Negligible

48. At Loan Closing the efficacy of the Project, i.e. the achievement of PDO, remained
    Negligible since no major component had been finished. When measured against the
    PDO and the Results Framework, achievement is difficult to quantify because of
    either the poor design of the Results Framework and/or the unavailability of
    information at closing of the loan to be compared against it:

   •   Two out of five PDO-indicators were achieved – “Net consolidated debt to net
       current revenue at less than 40%” and “Municipality’s environmental
       management capacity enhanced by the establishment of 4 ZEPAs”. The fiscal
       target was achieved independently of the Project, but there was no specific action
       (besides the Bank supervision of the Borrower compliance with the fiscal
       covenants) or financing provided to influence this factor. Likewise, the
       environmental target was met with no financial input from the Project. It was even
       met before the Project became effective;
   •   The PDO-indicator on population reporting satisfaction with the infrastructure
       improvements, for instance, could not be measured, since the works were not yet
       completed by the closing date of the project. The same with the indicator on
       increased property values;


                                                 14
       •   The assessment of performance through the results of the intermediate indicators
           reveals the following: (i) One of the three intermediate fiscal indicators was
           achieved, though independently of the Project’s inputs; (ii) Specific results linked
           to the (incomplete) infrastructure investments (on population taken out of flood-
           prone areas, legal tenure, and access to water and sanitation) were not achieved;
           and (iii) results of the social, environmental and economic development
           component are unclear, since the measurements (sometimes available in absolute
           numbers – number of people who received vocational training, number of people
           who benefited from environmental education ) were not made against the formal
           targets (expressed in percentages).

49. Despite the overall compromised Project efficacy (resulting from the fact that Project
    activities were not fully completed), some partial / qualitative achievements during
    the four year implementation period can be identified through the Project outputs 21:

       •   Under the “Institutional Strengthening” Component: Besides the direct support to
           Project management, Capibaribe Melhor provided a broader support to URB,
           through financing the implementation of an information system for HR
           management, which is place. It also supported URB through the acquisition of
           goods, including IT equipment ;
       •   Under the “Integrated Urban Territorial Development” Component: 2 out of the 3
           urban parks to be constructed and/or rehabilitated by the Project – Santana is
           completed and Apipucos is close to completion with the associated amenities,
           cultural, leisure and sport activities. These multipurpose parks are considered to
           be of high quality, and are now benefiting the poor population living along
           Capibaribe River, previously lacking leisure opportunities. Integrated macro
           drainage and flood control improvements were also completed in 4 out of 11
           canals to receive investments;
       •   Under the “Social, Environmental and Economic Development” Component: the
           Project supported the refurbishment of a Job Center which is fully operational
           (having benefited some 581 people with vocational training in the project targeted
           area). It also provided for the development of Management Plans for the urban
           parks, as well as for services to support resettlement. Although resettlement
           remained incomplete at the closing of the Project, some coordinated economic
           development, social and environmental outreach activities were delivered.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Negligible

50. The ex-ante economic analysis of the Capibaribe Melhor estimated an economic rate-
    of-return of 25% on the original Project package. Given that no component is finished,
    it is impractical to re-estimate the economic rate-of-return since neither costs nor



21
     For additional information on Project outputs, refer to Annex 2.


                                                       15
   benefits can be reliably calculated. However, it is likely that the rate of return from
   the Project will be much lower given the quadrupling of the Project costs (in current
   prices) and roughly doubling (in constant prices) as compared to the cost estimates
   used in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). A major portion of these costs are
   associated with resettlement: for this Project, the ratio between the cost of each
   infrastructure intervention and the associated resettlement ranges from 0.5 (urban
   roads and bridge) to 1.0 (integrated sanitation) to 3.0 (macro-drainage). These high
   costs are due in part to the need for proximate resettlement, in this case in a dense
   area with very high land prices. The economic efficiency is then rated Negligible.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

51. The overall outcome rating of the Project is Unsatisfactory, combining the High
    relevance, the negligible efficacy, and the Negligible economic efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

52. Socio-economic conditions were surveyed in 2008 by the consultant firm
    Geossistemas, which reported that 78% of the families owned their houses; 43%
    earned one minimum salary or less and about 70% earned two minimum salaries or
    less; 53% had resided in the area for between 10 and 30 years; and that the areas are
    predominantly residential with at least 82% of the houses used as residences.
    Although surveys to measure impacts of the Project are still to be carried out by the
    consulting firm supporting social resettlement works, once completed the Project is
    likely to have positive impacts on poverty and social development. The functioning
    and high frequency of residents in the two completed parks, the functioning of the Job
    Generation Center; and the improvements in completed urban roads (also comprising
    pathways, micro-drainage and sewerage) have already improved the living conditions
    of the residents in the Project area.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53. The PDO included strengthening the capacity of the Recife Municipality in the areas
    of environmental, fiscal, and urban management. It is uncertain to what degree the
    intended strengthening has materialized, since (i) escalating Project costs forced
    prioritization of other components over the institutional one, and (ii) only 5.9% of the
    actual Project investments (up to October 2013) was allocated to Institutional
    Development, and the amount financed mainly the costs of the PMU within URB.

54. Having said the above, it should be however noted that earlier (in 2009, in the
    transitional period to Project implementation), and partly as a result of the discussions
    of the Project on institutional development, both the Secretary of the Environment (in
    charge of environmental licensing procedures) and the Institute Pelópidas da Silveira


                                             16
     (in charge of urban planning at the municipal level) were created, thus improving
     overall urban and environmental management capacities of Recife.

55. On the other hand, while URB reported that their staff has learned from the
    opportunity of working in an integrated manner during Project implementation
    (engineering, social and environmental aspects), starting in early 2013 the newly
    elected Recife municipal administration chose to reduce personnel expenditures and
    staffing, which severely affected the PMU staff. The impression is that the
    institutional strengthening results from the Capibaribe Melhor are limited, all the
    more so since the Recife municipal administration has weakened URB by centralizing
    decision management of key works at Secretariat level.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

56. The Bank team supported the municipality of Recife in reviewing its fiscal capacity
    and debt assessment in 2009, thus helping the municipality to get approval for the
    Bank financed Recife Education SWAP project (P106208, LA 7711-BR) 22 . This
    SWAp project also includes a technical assistance component that supports
    institutional development for urban planning and mobility, a resulted of a dialogue
    with the Bank team supervising the Capibaribe Melhor.

57. The excessively long period to prepare and implement the Capibaribe Melhor may
    have reduced the municipality’s interest in pursuing similar follow-up projects with
    the World Bank. Instead, there is more interest from the current municipal
    administration in a Development Policy Loan from the World Bank, since a DPL
    could be expected to be fast-disbursing and dovetail with the four-year mandates of
    mayoral administrations. In addition, the existence of grants and financing from PAC
    to finance urban infrastructure and housing instill competition between sources of
    funding, and many decision makers opt for sources of financing that are simpler to
    obtain and implement.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

58. Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

59. The Project suffers from a number of risks, including financial, institutional, political,
    and resettlement risks. The financial risks relate to a history of escalating investment


22
   Under Capibaribe Melhor, a consultant was hired to work with municipal officials in the Secretariat of
Finance, in coordination with the PREM team, to perform such revision. The Task Team of the Project also
actively participated in the discussions of the Recife SWAP operation, particularly on the TA component
supporting fiscal management, urban mobility and urban planning.


                                                   17
   costs that may yet continue into the future. The fact that the financing of the Project
   required securing resources from PAC I and II and Minha Casa Minha Vida Program
   also introduces a coordination risk of fragmented financing, particularly with regard
   to distinct social and environmental requirements, bidding and contracting procedures,
   as well as preparation and implementation schedules. The institutional risks exist
   because the Project did not build institutional capacity within the Recife municipal
   administration to the level that was originally expected. The political risks are latent
   but remain, given the history of the substantial periods of time required in 2007-2009
   to reach decisions on signing the Loan Agreement and making it effective, and in
   2012 and 2013 to consider restructuring. Finally, and despite the Bank’s commitment
   to provide post-closure supervision, resettlement risks remain for about 760 families
   affected by the Project (for details, refer to section 2.4).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

60. Quality at Entry has been rated Unsatisfactory for a number of reasons: (i) the
    substantial underestimation of Project costs raises doubts as to how thorough the
    costing was during preparation; (ii) the link between PDOs and the resources
    allocated to reach them is at times weak and particularly so regarding the fiscal PDOs
    for the Recife municipality and for the social development component; (iii) the design
    of many of the PDO-indicators and the Intermediate Results indicators is poor and
    does not allow for an easy and precise way of monitoring project outcomes; (iv) the
    long preparation did not result in readiness to implement, since it focused on various
    generic supporting social and environmental studies rather than in detailed technical
    inputs and designs which would have enabled faster rollout of Project. Bidding
    documents were ready only in 2010.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61. Bank supervision was slow in recognizing the negative impact from the protracted
    period between Board approval on December 20, 2007 and the failure of the
    Borrower to meet the conditions for loan signing and effectiveness. A proactive
    supervision during the years 2008 and 2009 would have been more appropriate with
    more forceful measures taken, including the possible restructuring of the Project. In
    contrast, once the substantial cost overrun was discovered following loan
    effectiveness, Bank supervision was effective and focused on getting implementation
    up to speed. As a demonstration of the effectiveness of the Bank supervision the
    Project managed to disburse 60% of the Bank loan in less than three years of effective
    implementation. The supervision of the safeguards was adequately managed. The
    Bank supervision team, a different team from that which originally prepared the
    project, remained the same from effectiveness through the Loan closing date. The

                                           18
   Bank task team identified the need for a restructuring at an early stage and pursued it
   actively, although unsuccessfully.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

62. The combined rating of an Unsatisfactory preparation and a Moderately Satisfactory
    supervision is Moderately Unsatisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

63. The long delay in signing the Loan agreement and in enabling effectiveness and
    implementation seems to have been partly due to the slow response of the Recife
    Municipal Government in obtaining formal agreement from the Ministry of Finance.
    In addition, the Recife municipality must also share the onus of the Unsatisfactory
    Quality at Entry since it financed most of the preparatory studies required by the
    Bank team and participated in the design of the Project. On the positive side, however,
    the Municipality was prompt in identifying and committing to alternative financing of
    those components that could no longer be financed under the original funds assigned
    to the Project because of the serious underestimation of the investment costs, and
    continues to show evidence of their commitment to full completion of all project
    activities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64. After overcoming moderate initial shortcomings in implementing Bank guidelines
    and procedures, and after receiving implementation support from the firm contracted
    for this purpose, URB implemented the Project professionally and effectively during
    the roughly three-year implementation period. Non-negligible shortcomings in the
    reporting of M&E remained through the implementation period, but these are
    considered to be largely a result of the previously discussed “Quality at Entry” issues
    and lack of Borrower ownership of the Project’s Results Framework. In addition, the
    PIU must be praised for developing technical inputs that allowed the Municipality to
    actually reach resources from the PAC and Minha Casa Minha Vida programs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

65. The compound rating of the Government and the Implementing Agency is
    Moderately Unsatisfactory since the overall Unsatisfactory Project outcome overrides
    the split rating of the Moderately Unsatisfactory Government performance and the
    Moderately Satisfactory performance of the Implementing agency.
                                            19
6. Lessons Learned

Lesson One: Excessive preparation periods should be avoided, and technical
readiness at rollout assured, to conserve commitment. An inordinately long
preparation period reduces the support of the client government and of the beneficiaries
and increases risks as administrations may change. 23 The time from project identification
until start-up of project implementation in this case was from 2003 to early 2010—
roughly seven years— and weakened the commitment of the borrowing Recife
Municipality. It is also essential to minimize the gap between loan effectiveness and real
benefits from investment activities, as the credibility of the government depends on the
flow of tangible results. Bank requirements for preparation studies and analyses should
be realistically balanced with actual technical inputs (e.g. designs, topography) in the
early phases of the project.

Lesson Two: The Project Development Objective (PDO) and the intermediate
results indicators should be as few, simple and unequivocal as possible. Intermediate
Results Indicators should be directly related to each PDO, and whenever possible, be
linked to the Borrower’s or Operating Agencies’ routine monitoring and evaluation
system rather than demanding special studies to set baseline values and assess
compliance with target values. In the case of Capibaribe Melhor, several project
indicators were not directly related to the results of project activities but to other
exogenous factors, thus complicating assessment of project results.

Lesson Three: Risks posed by changes in government should not be underestimated
and must be mitigated. During project preparation and implementation political risks,
particularly those related to transitions, are often underestimated and can affect project
efficacy and efficiency substantially. In the case of Capibaribe Melhor, a new
government stalled the project for almost a full year in 2013, a delay that ultimately
scuttled the necessary restructuring of the Project. Project preparation and
implementation can account for such risk through various measures, such as: (i)
determination of a concept structure that allows sufficient flexibility to adjust to changing
governments; (ii) robust implementation arrangements; (iii) utilization of the Bank’s
convening power and maintenance of a constant and high level dialogue with the
Borrower; (iv) building of community ownership of the project; and (v) performing
proactive supervision during political transitions. This must be complemented by internal
dialogue within the Bank across management levels in order to present a united front to
the counterpart throughout the transition process.

Lesson Four: Infrastructure projects should focus on identification of the most
efficient technical solution on a case-by-case basis. The technique used to identify this
solution may be least cost, best available technology, or another method. In the case of
Capibaribe Melhor, revision of previous designs for the bridge and parks in order to


23
  Annex 4, Table B shows costs during the preparation period substantially exceeded costs during
supervision, illustrating this imbalance between preparation and implementation.


                                                  20
simplify the technical design and reduce costs took a substantial portion of the
implementation period. Teams preparing and implementing projects should ensure that
sufficient attention and budget are allocated for hiring experienced staff for these
assessments. When available studies do not offer sufficient information to accurately
estimate project costs and select the least cost alternative, this should be highlighted and
contingencies included in the project cost to mitigate the risks of imprecise cost estimates.
Similarly, continuous vigilance should be exercised during project implementation to
ensure that technical specifications are accurate and at the adequate level of detail and
that costs are estimated accordingly.

Lesson Five: Large, complex integrated urban development projects require
consistent effort over long periods of time. The original PDOs of the Capibaribe
Melhor envisaged benefitting about a quarter million low income inhabitants in a
sustainable and transformational manner within a project implementation period of five
years. The actual outcome fell substantially short of the one originally projected,
indicating that significant improvement of the socioeconomic status of low-income
populations in Brazil – and likely elsewhere – requires substantially more time than that
afforded by a typical World Bank project with an implementation period of five years, as
well as an allocation of resources commensurate with the scale of the project’s objectives.

Lesson Six: Resettlement determines the project timeline and costs. Resettlement
under urban slum upgrading projects in Brazil frequently determines the timeline for the
entire project. Compliant resettlement in dense urban areas is often slowed by the
availability of nearby suitable urban land for the building of substitute housing.
Resettlement costs in the case of this project ranged from 50% to 300% of the cost of the
associated infrastructure, illustrating their importance in the budget of urban projects. To
facilitate resettlement, the Bank should reassess the status quo for social housing
typologies (density, design, technology, etc.) and mechanisms (financing, zoning, etc.) in
Brazil, and reframe its agenda accordingly. For example, discussion and exchange of
experiences between the Bank and the Borrower could yield new alternatives and
instruments for resettlement housing. From a physical standpoint, this could involve the
prioritization of changes to the typology of social housing, allowing for more flexible,
innovative and alternative designs. From a legal standpoint, this could include changes to
zoning to allow for increased density and mixed uses in low income areas, as well as
capacity building for the regularization and further utilization of available urban
management instruments (for taxation, land management etc.).

Lesson Seven: For complex urban and infrastructure projects in Brazil, the Bank
should favor framework 24 operations with faster preparation periods, while


24
    In contrast to the activity-defined projects, framework projects focuses on the type of project-financed
activities but not necessarily the identification of each of the specific activities. Only a few activities
(usually those to be financed during the first year or so of project implementation) are identified and well
defined during preparation (known location and detailed studies available) and are appraised based on
specific details and management plans. Eligibility conditions are designed to select future interventions


                                                     21
ensuring adequate time for implementation. Given the two-year Brazilian political
cycle, with alternating state and municipal elections, a framework approach for large,
complex integrated urban development projects can increase project ownership on the
part of the Borrower in order to manage the risk of government transitions. Framework
projects are structured with a quick preparation period to lay out a general framework of
actions and results, and leave specificities to be worked out on the ground during a longer
implementation period. Average implementation for framework projects should be no
less than seven to nine years to allow sufficient time for design and implementation,
which often cannot be satisfactorily completed in five years. In cases where the Bank
opts for a longer preparation period and a shorter implementation time, preparation
should include detailed designs and assessments to ensure full readiness for project
rollout.

Lesson Eight: Subnational lending requires substantive capacity building. When
working with urban projects at subnational level, the Bank must ensure that the gaps in
institutional capacity are adequately addressed earlier in project concept and preparation.
This includes identifying challenges, defining activities to confront these, and assigning
resources sufficient to complete those activities satisfactorily. In the case of Capibaribe
Melhor, given its small loan amount, it would have been preferable to target and
complete less ambitious infrastructure investments while concentrating on building
municipal implementation and management capacity. Examples of areas for capacity
improvement include urban planning, land use management, urban taxation (all
considered necessary to strengthen the Borrower’s ability to implement national program
investments, such as PAC and Minha Casa Minha Vida), as well as infrastructure
financing (PPPs).


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




during implementation, and management frameworks (safeguards, disbursements, etc.) are designed to be
applied to those future interventions.


                                                  22
                      Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD thousand equivalent)
                                                 Percentage   Total        Percenta
                                  Actual Total of Appraisal   Expected       ge of
                     Appraisal
                                     (Spent       Estimate    through      Apprais
                      Estimate
     Component                      through         Spent     Completion   al Spent
                       (USD
                                    Project       through     of           through
                      millions)
                                    Closing)       Project    remaining    Complet
                                                  Closing     works ()        ion
 I. Institutional
                        4,728         2365           50%        4,797       101%
 Development
 Consultant study
 for M&E system
                         740             0            0%         529         72%
 and Strategic
 Planning
 Environmental
 and Urban               245             0            0%          0          0%
 Management
 Project
 Management &           3,743            0            0%        4,267       114%
 Other consultants
 II. Urban
 territorial           40,250        33,052          82%       179,672      446%
 development
 Water supply and
                       20,000            0            0%        47,373      237%
 sewerage systems
 Public parks           5,000        17,525         350%        18,083      362%
 Macro-drainage
                        4,250        10,803         254%        15,742      370%
 and resettlement
 Urban mobility        11,000         4,725          43%        98,474      895%
 Land
                           0          3,875                     7,000
 expropriation
 III. Social
                        1,740          401           23%        1,530        88%
 development
 Income
                         694           401           58%        1,456       210%
 Generation
 Environmental
                         386             0            0%          0          0%
 Education
 Sports and
                          93             0            0%          0          0%
 culture
 Urban promotion          50             0            0%          0          0%
 Community
                         517             0            0%          74         14%
 development
 Front End Fee            82            82          100%          82        100%
Grand Total          46,800        39,775          85%         193,081      413%


                                         23
(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                                Cofinancing     (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                              millions)   millions)
 Borrower, PAC, CEF, Minha Vida                             14.04       173.46        1,235%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                   32.76            19.62              60%
and Development
                                                                   46.8             193.08             412%

(c) Loss in Loan Purchase Power
                                                                                              Disbursemenst, BRL million
                                   Exchange Rate       Disbursements, BRL million
                                                                                                   in constant prices
         Actual Disbursements
             US$ millions        Projected           Projected FX               CPI (3Q2008 Projected
                                           Actual FX              Actual FX (B)                            Actual FX (D)
                                     FX                   (A)                   index=100)    FX (C)
2Q2011                   0.123         1.8      1.77          0.22           0.22    117.9         0.19             0.18
3Q2011                       0         1.8      1.77           -              -      120.3          -                -
4Q2011                   0.947         1.8      1.56          1.70           1.48    120.3         1.42             1.23
1Q2012                   2.876         1.8      1.56          5.18           4.49    120.3         4.30             3.73
2Q2012                   2.702         1.8      1.56          4.86           4.22    120.3         4.04             3.50
3Q2012                                 1.8      1.56           -              -      125.7          -                -
4Q2012                   3.448         1.8      2.01          6.21           6.93    125.7         4.94             5.51
1Q2013                                 1.8      2.01           -              -      125.7          -                -
2Q2013                   6.649         1.8      2.01         11.97          13.36    125.7         9.52            10.63
3Q2013                                 1.8      2.01           -              -      125.5          -                -
4Q2013                   2.782         1.8      2.23          5.01           6.20    125.5         3.99             4.94
1Q2014                                 1.8      2.23           -              -      125.5          -                -
Total                   19.527                              35.149         36.896                 28.40           29.735
                                                            (B)/(A)          5.0%   (C)/(A)        -19%             -15%


1. Bank disbursements amounted to US$19.527 until the first quarter of 2014. We
perform a comparison for the correspondent amount in BRL following (i) the project
exchange rate at appraisal 25 ; (ii) the actual exchange rate and (iii) after discounting
inflation in the construction sector. Comparing the projected and actual exchange rates
shows that the depreciation of the BRL versus the USD that started in 4Q2012 actually
benefitted the project, increasing the value of actual disbursements by 5% in relation to
FX projections. This was because the largest amount of disbursements occurred after the
exchange rate started to depreciate.

2. Considering the impact of inflation, we transform nominal amounts into constant ones,
by applying a deflator index based on construction price inflation. Here the impact was
negative. Considering the projected disbursements, converted into BRL at constant prices,
the delay in disbursements led to a 19% loss in purchasing power. Considering the actual




25
  At appraisal, projections indicated disbursements would end at 2Q2013 and, therefore, there are no
projections for the exchange rate for future quarters. We considered exchange rate stable at R$1.8 per USD
for future quarters.


                                                           24
disbursements, converted into BRL at constant prices, and taking into account both the
impact of inflation and exchange rate depreciation, purchasing power dropped 15%.

3. Exchange rate and inflation alone do not explain why the project still requires
US$153.306 million to be concluded. The total amount disbursed (Bank and Counterpart
resources) corresponds to approximately US$39.774 million as of today. Therefore, total
project cost would be US$193.08 million, compared to US$46.8 million estimated at
appraisal. This quadrupling of costs from those estimated in the PAD indicates that errors
in project design were by far the most important factor in cost overruns.




                                           25
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component




                                             (as of Oct 31, 2013)
                                               COMPLETED




                                                                              EXECUTED
                                                                    ONGOING

                                                                                TO BE
COMPONENTS, SUBCOMPONENTS
                                                                                                        STATUS
      AND ACTIVITIES



I. Institutional Development
Strengthening of the Municipal
Management
                                                                                         The current municipal government
                                                                                         implemented a Monitoring and
Consulting services for the development of                                               Evaluation System developed by the
a M&E System and Strategic Planning for             -                -          -        current Mayor when he was Planning
the Municipality                                                                         Secretary of the State of Pernambuco. It
                                                                                         is uncertain to what degree the Project
                                                                                         activity influenced this M&E system.
Environmental and Urban Management
                                                                                         Creation, in 2009, of both the Secretary
                                                                                         of the Environment (in charge of
                                                                                         environmental licensing procedures) and
Improvement of the procedures for
                                                                                         the Institute Pelópidas da Silveira (in
environmental licensing, as well as
                                                  X                                      charge of urban planning at the
improvement of urban management
                                                                                         municipal level). There was no direct
capacity
                                                                                         Bank financing for this activity,
                                                                                         although the Bank took part in the
                                                                                         discussions leading to this result.
Project Management & Other Consulting
Services
                                                                                         The related contract will remain valid
                                                                                         up to April 2014. The Borrower has
Consulting services to support project                                                   already provided for the hiring of an
                                                                    X
management                                                                               specific firm to provide the supervision
                                                                                         of the works of the road system and
                                                                                         bridge.
                                                                                         One auditing report still to be
                                                                                         developed, related to the 2013 CY and
                                                                                         to the grace period of the project.
Auditing services                                 X                             X
                                                                                         Expected date for completion: June
                                                                                         2014
Consulting services for the development of                                                                  -
                                                  X
a communication plan for the project
Acquisition of goods (IT and furniture) to                                                                   -
                                                  X
support URB and the PIU
                                                                                         The system was in place and operational
Consulting services the customization,                                                   until April 2013. After this, FM
maintenance and operation of the FM               X                                      monitoring and reporting was done
system (SPGP)                                                                            manually, using information from the
                                                                                         Municipal system (SOFIN).
Consulting services for the development                                                  The system is now fully operational.
                                                  X
and implementation of an information

                                                          26
                                                (as of Oct 31, 2013)
                                                  COMPLETED




                                                                                 EXECUTED
                                                                       ONGOING

                                                                                   TO BE
COMPONENTS, SUBCOMPONENTS
                                                                                                           STATUS
      AND ACTIVITIES



system for HR management
II. Urban Territorial Development
Water supply and sewerage systems
                                                                                            Detailed designs were prepared by URB
                                                                                            and submitted for approval. The
                                                                                            contract was signed with CEF and the
Integrated urban upgrading and WSS
                                                                                            bidding documents for the related works
works (PAC II – Infraestrutura Social e                                            X
                                                                                            are under development.
Urbana)
                                                                                            Expected date for completion: January
                                                                                            2018
Related housing development to                                                              Expected date for completion: January
accommodate families affected by the                                               X        2018
WSS works (Minha Casa Minha Vida)
Public Parks
Construction and / or rehabilitation of                                                     Santana: Completed and open for
Apipucos, Caiara and Santana Parks:                                                         visitors
                                                                                            Apipucos: 1st part completed and open
The Bank project finances the                                                               for visitors / 2nd part ongoing, to be
rehabilitation of two existing parks, the                                                   completed in June 2014
Caiara and the Santana (which is also                                                       Caiara: Ongoing, to be completed in
being enlarged) and the building of a third                                                 June 2014
park, the Apipucos. Caiara Park is built to
become a sports center for athletes from                                                    Expected date for completion: June
the entire Recife Metropolitan Region,                                                      2014
whereas the Santana is already widely used
for recreation and family sports of different
kinds. The Apipucos Park will be lower-
key area for families with children. All
parks are adjacent to the Capibaribe and
two parks are planned to receive river ports
                                                                       X
for fluvial navigation. The park
investments provide a way for recuperating
and securing the general public’s right to
use parks that might otherwise become
venues for crime and drug trafficking. To
this end, the use of closed circuit TV
cameras is planned to continuously
monitor their use. The parks are a step
towards expanding green areas in Recife,
which has few such spaces. The current
green space per inhabitant ratio in Recife is
0.7 meters squared, about one tenth of
what the Pernambuco state law prescribes
and even lower than the 12 square meters
per inhabitant recommended by the United
Nations.


                                                             27
                                                (as of Oct 31, 2013)
                                                  COMPLETED




                                                                                 EXECUTED
                                                                       ONGOING

                                                                                   TO BE
COMPONENTS, SUBCOMPONENTS
                                                                                                           STATUS
      AND ACTIVITIES



Macro-Drainage and Resettlement
                                                                                            4 out of 11 canals completed
Integrated urban upgrading and macro-
drainage woks (11 canals – PAC                                         X
                                                                                            Expected date for completion: May
Drenagem)
                                                                                            2015
Related housing development (Casarao do                                                     Expected date for completion: October
Barbalho) to accommodate families                                                           2014
                                                                       X
affected by the macro-drainage works
(PAC Drenagem)
Urban Mobility
Road System and Bridge over Capibaribe
River:

The project financed the construction of a                                                  Works were 17% completed by
bridge that will connect the two banks of                                                   October, 2013
the Capibaribe River, directly benefiting                              X
low-income communities that will find                                                       Expected date for completion: April
increased employment on the wealthier                                                       2015
bank and save on travel cost along a 15 km
stretch of the river that presently lacks any
bridge whatsoever.
Related housing development to
accommodate families affected by the                                                        Expected date for completion: June
                                                                       X
urban mobility works (Minha Casa Minha                                                      2016
Vida)
III. Social Development
Income Generation
Rehabilitation of a job center in the Project                                               Completed in May 2013.
                                                     X
targeted area
                                                                                            Plans were satisfactorily completed and
                                                                                            were delivered to EMLURB (the
                                                                                            municipal entity in charge of O&M of
Consulting services for the development of
                                                     X                                      the parks) and to the Municipal
management plans for the urban parks
                                                                                            Secretariats of Tourism, Environment
                                                                                            and Education (co-executors of some of
                                                                                            the planned activities).
Environmental Education
                                                                                            These services include not only the
                                                                                            implementation of the RAP itself, but
                                                                                            also social and economic development
Consulting services for the implementation                                                  outreach activities, M&E (surveys), and
                                                                       X
of the RAP                                                                                  communication services. Works were
                                                                                            hired in August 2013.
                                                                                            Expected date for completion: June
                                                                                            2016



                                                             28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


             Not applicable.




                   29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                             Title             Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Fernando Andres Blanco
                            Senior Economist                 AFTP4 Fiscal assessment
Cossio
Jose Augusto Carvalho       Consultant                       LCSPT Procurement
Dean A. Cira                Lead Urban Specialist            AFTU1 TTL
Ivo Imparato                Principal Regional Team Leader   TWILC TTL
                                                                     Integrated Sanitation
Martin P. Gambrill          Lead Water and Sanitation Spec   LCSWS Component
Luiz C. Gazoni              Consultant                       LCSPT Procurement
                                                                     Social Development
Kathy A. Lindert            Sector Leader                    LCSHD Component
                                                                     Public Sector
Yasuhiko Matsuda            Sr Public Sector Spec.           EASPW Assessment
                                                                     Financial
Claudio Mittelstaedt        Consultant                       LCSFM Management
                                                                     Integrated Sanitation
Lilian Pena Pereira Weiss   Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.      LCSWS Component
                            Senior Urban Development
Paula Dias Pini                                              AFTU1 Social Safeguards
                            Specialist
Catarina Portelo            Senior Counsel                   LEGLE Legal Support
Jennifer Sara               Sector Manager                   EASVS Sector Leader
                                                                     Social Development
Ricardo Rocha Silveira      Senior Operations Officer        HDNHE Component
                                                                     Social Development
Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst   Sector Manager                   SASDC Component
                                                                     Economic
Carlos E. Velez             Consultant                       AFTP3 Assessment
                                                                     Economic
Maria Angelica Sotomayor    Sector Leader                    LCSSD Assessment
                                                                     Economic
Judy Baker                  Lead Economist                   EASIN Assessment
Alexandre Borges            Senior Procurement Specialist    EASR1 Procurement
Julia Conter                Program Assistant                LCC5C Program Assistant
Cary Anne Cadman            Senior Environment Specialist    EASIN Safeguards
Luis Prada Villalobos       Senior Procurement Specialist    MNAPC Procurement
Adriana Weisman             Operations Officer               OPSPQ Operations
Karina de Souza Marcelino   Program Assistant                LCC5C Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR
                                                                   TTL (WSS /
Marcos T. Abicalil          Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.      LCSWS
                                                                   Urban)
Emanuela Monteiro           Urban Development Spec.          LCSDU Co-TTL (Urban)
Klas Ringskog               Consultant                       LCSWS Primary author of

                                             30
                                                                        ICR
Ivo Imparato                 Principal Regional Team Leader     TWILC TTL (Urban)
                                                                       Procurement
Sinue Aliram                 Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
                                                                       Specialist
Etel Bereslawski             Senior Procurement Specialist       LCSPT Procurement
                                                                       Urban
Marcus Vinicius Ferreira Da                                     LCSUW-
Silva
                            Consultant
                                                                  HIS
                                                                       infrastructure
                                                                       Spec.
Clarisse Torrens Borges Dall                                           Environmental
                             Senior Environmental Specialist     LCSEN
Acqua                                                                  Safeguards
                                                                       Environmental
Agnes Velloso                Environment Safeguard Specialist    LCSEN
                                                                       Safeguards
                                                                       Financial
Eduardo Franca De Souza      Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
                                                                       Management
                                                                       Financial
Susana Amaral                Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
                                                                       Management
                                                                       Financial
Nicolas Drossos              Consultant                         AFTSW
                                                                       Management
Daniel R. Gross              Consultant                          AFTCS Social Safeguards
Karina de Souza Marcelino    Program Assistant                   LCC5C Program Assistant
Marta Elena Molares-                                                   LA preparation
                             Lead Counsel                        LEGES
Halberg                                                                and negotiation
                                                                       Operational
Sarah Anthony Murphy         Consultant                          AFTA1
                                                                       Support
Catarina Isabel Portelo      Senior Counsel                      LEGLE LA amendment
                                                                       Procurement
Luis R. Prada Villalobos     Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPC
                                                                       Specialist
 Francesco Notarbartolo di                                             Social
                             Consultant                          LCSSO
Villarosa                                                              Development
Jennifer Sara                Sector Manager                      EASVS Sector Leader
                             Senior Social Development
Alberto Coelho G. Costa                                         LCSSO Social Safeguards
                             Specialist
                                                                        Monitoring and
Abdoulaye Sy                 Economist                          MNSED
                                                                        Evaluation
Willow Latham                Consultant                         LCSWS




                                              31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY04                                      0.50                        2.97
 FY05                                     11.00                       89.55
 FY06                                     18.85                      107.51
 FY07                                     18.39                       95.67
 FY08                                      8.68                       54.10
                          Total:          57.42                      349.80
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                     2.20                       13.14
  FY09                                     4.90                       28.43
  FY10                                    10.04                       50.65
  FY11                                     7.43                       40.86
  FY12                                    16.00                       63.93
  FY13                                    19.93                       58.75
  FY14                                    10.07                       56.40
                          Total:          70.57                      312.13




                                       32
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                 Not Applicable




                      34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

         DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
        EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF BUDGET AND FUNDING
           GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF FUNDRAISING

                            TECHNICAL NOTE

Recife, April 14, 2014

SUBJECT: Comments on the Capibaribe Melhor Project ICR, Implementation
Completion and Results Report, prepared by the World Bank - Perspective of
the Municipality on Project Evaluation - Impact of political term transition on
the attempted restructuring - Integrated view on the portfolio of World Bank-
financed projects.

1. From February 3-7, 2014, representatives of the World Bank- IBRD visited the
   municipality of Recife to collect data and conduct interviews for the preparation
   of the Capibaribe Melhor Project ICR – Implementation Completion and
   Results Report. On March 31 and April 1 and 7, 2014, a new mission was
   undertaken to address issues relating to social and environmental safeguards, as
   well as to present and discuss the draft of Implementation Completion and
   Results Report.

2. The text of the ICR was analyzed by the Municipality teams. On April 11, 2014,
   suggestions for minor adjustments were sent by Berta Maia, representative of
   the URB.

3. This Technical Note aims to formalize SEPLAG’s general comments on the
   ICR, and to bring some considerations about the vision of the current municipal
   administration with regard to Capibaribe Melhor into an integrated approach to
   the project portfolio held by the Municipality and the World Bank.

4. In general, SEPLAG believes that the ICR addressed the relevant points of the
   Capibaribe Melhor Project faithfully and appropriately. There is substantial
   agreement on the evaluation of the project, particularly with regard to the
   relevance of its objectives.

5. The notable merit of the actions financed by the Project was confirmed by the
   support of different municipal administrations and their complementarity with
   national programs with similar purposes (in particular PAC - Growth
   Acceleration Program and MCMV - Minha Casa Minha Vida).


                                     35
6. SEPLAG also considered the overall performance ratings assigned to the Bank
   and the Borrower for the process fairly accurate (both were judged Moderately
   Unsatisfactory).

7. An aspect highlighted with emphasis in the ICR was the poor performance of
   the World Bank in ensuring Quality at Entry, especially regarding the estimated
   costs necessary to achieve the Project objectives. From the point of view of the
   Municipality, this original flaw (the gap between the values for financing and
   counterpart contribution estimated in the Loan Agreement and the amounts
   actually required for completion of Project activities) severely compromised the
   results, and could not be overcome by the efforts during implementation and
   supervision by Bank and Municipal staff.

8. On the other hand, SEPLAG recognizes that representatives of the Municipality
   participated in the design of the project from 2003-2007, and are co-responsible
   for the poor quality at entry, as they also should have recognized the
   insufficiency of resources to implement a Project at such a scale.

9. SEPLAG assesses that the resettlement of the population affected by
   infrastructure works was the variable that most affected costs and impacted the
   time period needed for completion of the project, considering the characteristics
   of the area of operations (a region of very condensed and high-priced real
   estate). In this sense, discussion and exchange of experiences with respect to
   new alternatives and tools for solving the housing issue is very positive, as
   recommended by the experts from the IBRD.

10. With regard to the impact of the political transition on the speed of Project
    execution, the current administration believes that this is a natural feature of the
    political cycle. Starting in January 2013, the process of agreement on actions
    with the new administration was initiated, and ran in parallel with the diagnosis
    of initiatives that were already underway and with the assembly of technical
    teams. The time required to obtain and analyze information generated delays
    not only in the case of Capibaribe Melhor, but in the progress of projects in
    general (e.g. , the World Bank Education SWAp and activities financed by
    other institutions such as the Caixa Econômica Federal - CEF and BNDES).

11. Within this context, the deactivation of the Project Management Unit (UGP) for
    Capibaribe Melhor was a decision taken with the purpose of establishing,
    within SISUR and URB, an integrated vision of strategic infrastructure works
    for the City, using the existing management structure for the Municipal teams,
    without the need to create a unit for a single project.

                                       36
    12. It should be emphasized that, in view of the current municipal administration,
        the initiation of DPL negotiations did not constitute a contrary incentive to the
        continuity of Capibaribe Melhor. However, the proposal of the municipal
        administration in 2013 was quite different from the restructuring negotiated
        between the parties and approved by the Federal Government in 2012; it
        comprised a substantial reduction in scope and did not provide for the provision
        of additional resources.

    13. The dialogue between the Municipality and the World Bank regarding the new
        restructuring format started very late, and the project period extension granted
        (four months) was not sufficient for all the arrangements for approval by the
        Federal Government. The Municipality did not correctly estimate the time
        required to obtain the necessary authorizations, which led to the failure of the
        renegotiation attempt.

    14. With the closure of Capibaribe Melhor, IBRD communicated that the
        remaining undisbursed funds would be transferred to a DPL - Development
        Policy Loan. It is noteworthy that the resources of the DPL in its entirety will
        be employed to ensure the delivery of better public services and to achieve
        relevant objectives for the improvement of the population’s quality of life,
        including goals related to Capibaribe Melhor (urban infrastructure, sanitation
        interventions and housing, investment in public management).

    15. Finally , as part of a portfolio view of IBRD projects, the Recife Prefeitura
        considers it relevant to reaffirm the institutional commitments undertaken in
        relation to Capibaribe Melhor (such as the resettlement of families), as essential
        to maintaining bilateral trust and to the success of other programs maintained
        between IBRD and the Municipality, ongoing projects, and projects in
        negotiation.


RACHEL MATHIAS SOARES PONTES
General Manager of Fundraising




                                           37
     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    38
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of the Capibaribe Melhor Project dated November
20, 2007

Loan Agreement Capibaribe Melhor, dated September 3, 2009

Gestao de Reassentamento, Geosistemas, December 2011

Aide-memoires from preparation and supervision missions from 2004-2013

Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports, from 2008-2013

Notes from conversations with staff and officials involved with the Project from start of
preparation in 2003 through end of implementation in 2013.




                                            39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 40947
                               280000 m E                                                          284000 m E                                                                                                      288000 m E                                                                                                         292000 m E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B R AZ IL
                                                                                                                                                                           EST                                                Rio

                                            Ria                                                        o
                                                                                                                                                                                RA
                                                                                                                                                                                  DA

                                                                                                                                                                                                       DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR O JEC T A REA W I THI N
                                                                                                  Min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BRA
                                                  cho                                                                                                                          Maximino
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REC IF E MUN ICI PALI T Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NCO
                                                                              do
                                                                                                                                                       do
                                                                                                                             go
                                                                                                                      rre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT AREA
                                                                                                           Co
                                             Rio                                                                             EST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RECIFE MUNICIPALITY
                                                                Araçá                                                                  RAD
                                                                                                                                                  A                                        Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Piaba
                                                                             ES
                                                                               TR             Ri
                                                                                                 o                            Beb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN ROADS
                                                                                   AD
                                                                                        A                                                    erib                                                                                                                                                                             9120000 m N
                                                                                                                                                              e                       DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAIN RIVERS/STREAMS
                                            Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAULISTA
                                                                                                           DO
                                                          Pa                                                                                                                                               MURIBECA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAKES/RESERVOIRS
                                                             cas
                                                                                            Rio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PORT
                                                                                                                                                              MO
                                                                                                                                                                      RN




                                                                                                                                       Mor
                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIGHTHOUSE


                                                                                                                                            no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTEGRADED PASSENGER TERMINAL

                          N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sources: (UCHÔA, T.M.M; COMPASSO C.EA LEITE, E.M.). 1999.
                                                                              CAMARAGIBE




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                               MACACOS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IND
                                                                                                                                                       DOS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                296000 m E           9116000 m N
                                                                                                                                  A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                        RA
      0            1       2          3                  4                                                       ES
                                                                                                                    T



                                                                                                                              Meio                                                                                                        M
                       KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                             or
                                                                                                                                                                                       BR-101



                                                                                                                              Dam                                 Prata                                                                            no
                                                                                                                                                                   Dam
                                                                                                                                                                      Dois Irmãos
                                                                                                                                                                      Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Apipucos
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE                                                                                                                           Beb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           erib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9112000 m N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                       AV
                                                                                                                                                                                         .C                                         pib
                                                                                                                                                                                                AX                                      ari
                                                                                                                                                                                                   AN                                         be




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L




                                                                                                                                                                                                       GÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ari
                            TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ÃE

                        A MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IME




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MA

                   ÇO D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ca
           UREN                                                                      be
     S. LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON




                                                                                  ari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EN




                                                                          pib
                                                                        Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AG
                                                                                                                                                                      BR-101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CARV
                                                                Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALHO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    orto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AV.




                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                  S. João                                                                                                            DIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        S D



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of P
                                                                                  da Várzea                                                                                                    AB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N1




                                                                                                                                                                                           AV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DO
                                                                                  Dam                                                       Cu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9108000 m N
                                      Rio




                                                                                                           Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O




                                                                                                                                                  ra                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ET



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IS


                                                                                                                                                            do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AS
                                                                                                                                                                     CEASA                                                                                                                                                                    NT
                                                        Te




                                                                                                  32
                                                                                            BR-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DA
                                                           ji




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AV.
                                                          pió




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MIGUEL                                                                                       of Pina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SÃO                                    AV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RU


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        URB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Parque do
                                                                                                                                             sv
                                                                                                            sv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pina
                                                                                                                                                                               Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lagoa                                                                 Manguezal
                                                                                                                                                  sv
                                                                                                                                                                                  o




                                                                                                            sv
                                                                                                                                  sv
                                                                                                                                                            BR-101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AIS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           do Araça
                                                                                                                        sv




                                                                                                                                                       sv



                                                                                                                                                                                           Te
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DE MOR




                                                                                                                                                                                              ji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SV




                                                                                                                                                                                                 pió                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9104000 m N
                                                                                                                                       sv



                                                                                                                 sv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                AV. RECIF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NHAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CARE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RE
                                                                         DOS GUARARAPES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            em
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . MAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ã
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        iag




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AV. MAL
                                                                            JABOATÃO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      aV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .B


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Setúbal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aeroporto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Internacional do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Recife/Guararapes -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gilberto Freyre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9100000 m N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Can




                                                                                                                                                                                                   JABOATÃO
 GSDPM
 Map Design Unit                                                                                                                                                                                DOS GUARARAPES
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                APRIL 2014
                                          BRAZIL                                                     RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
                                RECIFE MUNICIPALIT Y
                                          STATE CAPITALS
                                          STATE BOUNDARIES
                                          MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                  CEARÁ

                                                                                                                                                                                    Joao Pessoa
                                                                                                                     PA R A Í B A

                            PIAUÍ
                                                                                                                                                                                Recife

                                                                                          PER NA M BUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                   ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                         OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                   R.B. DE      GUYANA        French
                                                                                                                                                 VENEZUELA                   Guiana
                                                                                                                                                                     SURINAME (Fr.)
                                                                                                                               COLOMBIA                RORAIMA                                              ATLANTIC



                                                                                                          AL AGOAS
                                                                                                                                                                                    AMAPÁ                     OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                              PERNAMBUCO
                                                                                                                                                 AMAZONAS                      PA R Á              MARANHÃO       CEARÁ    RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARAÍBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PIAUÍ
                                                                                                                                         ACRE                                                                 Recife        ALAGOAS



                                                                            B A H I A
                                                                                                                                                                                            TOCANTINS
                                                                                                                                                     RONDÔNIA             M AT O                          BAHIA           SERGIPE
                                                                                                                               PERU                                      GROSSO
                                                                                                                                                                                               F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                               BRASÍLIA

                                                                                                     SERGIPE                                     BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                         MATO GROSSO
                                                                                                                                                                                     GOIÁS


                                                                                                                                                                           DO SUL SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                                                            MINAS
                                                                                                                                                                                            G E R A I S ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        SANTO

              GSDPM
              Map Design Unit                                                                                                            CHILE                   PARAGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIO DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                   PARANÁ
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                           STA. CATARINA
                                                                                                                               PACIFIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 40946
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
APRIL 2014




                                                                                                                                                                            RIO GRANDE                        ATLANTIC
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                     OCEAN               ARGENTINA
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                              Aracaju                                                            DO SUL                           OCEAN
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                               URUGUAY
