Docurent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Re t No. P-3960-BU
REPORT AID RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTrVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 4.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 22, 1984
-w,
This  e_t h       idb    nutk mdhmy be          whdb eu Wdi  pkfwau o



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Burundi Franc (BuF)
SDR 1.00        -  BuF 122.70
SDR 1.00        -  US$1.05
US$1.00         -  BuE 116.77 (November 23, 1983)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL TEAR
January 1-December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CADEBU:     Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi (Burundi Savings Bank)
CAMOFI:     Caisse de Mobilisation Financifre (Resources Mobilization and
FHnancing Board)
CPI:        Centre de Promotion Industrielle (Industrial Development
Center, Ministry of Trade and Industry)
DGPA:       Directorate General for Agricultural Planning, Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock
SNES:       Service National des Etudes et StatiBtiquea (National Studies
and Statistics Service)
SONEBU:     Sociftk Mixte d'Etudes du Burundi (Consulting Firm)
SRD:        SocigtE RUgionale de Dbveloppement (Regional Development
Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJFCT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of Burundi
Amount:       SDR 4.9 million (US$5.1 million equivalent)
Terms:        Stpndard
Project
Description:  (a) Objectives: (i) setting up mechanisms to improve project
identification, preparation, evaluation and monitoring in the
Ministry of Planning, and strengthen the link with
macroeconomic planning; (ii) strengthening the Directorate
General for Agricultural Planning (DGPA) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock to improve its capacity to handle
the various stages of the project cycle and to monitor
Regional Development Companies management; and (iii) training
in statistics and- project work, and project management for
the staff of DGPA.
(b) Major Components: (i) Provision of long-term advisers:
one project monitoring specialist in the Ministry of
Plai:ing; one agricultural statistician and one documentalist
in the National Statistical Service (SNES); and one
management specialist and two agricultural economists in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Directorate General
for Agricultural Planning); (ii) financing of feasibility and
sector studies, and specialized consultants to assist problem
projects; (iii) a training program in statistics and project
preparation, monitoring, and project management; (iv) a
Documentation Center to centralize economic and technical
information on development projects; and Cv) some equipment
for the agencies receiving technical assistance.
(c) Benefits: The project would continue strengthening the
Ministry of Planning, SNES, and the Ministry of Agriculture.
By focusing on project preparation, monitoring and
evaluation, proposed activities would improve the quality of
new projects and the management of on-going ones. It would
also strengthen the weak link between macroeconomic and
project work in Burundi's planning system, and increase the
number of Burundians with skills in project work and project
management.
(d) Risks: Risks are essentially linked to the rapid
turnover of national staff.  They are addressed through an
improvement of working conditions to attract and retain
qualified staff in the Ministry of Planning and DGPA.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost:
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Item                                      Local      Foreign     Total
Long-term advisers                         370        1,530      1,900
Sector and feasibility studies
and specialized consultants             650         1,660     2,310
Equipment and Vehicles                    150           310       460
Training                                    70          180        250
Documentation Center                        65          145        210
Staff allowances                           55            -          55
Agricultural documentation                  10           10         20
Total Base Costs                        1,370         3,835     5,205
Contingencies
Price                               145           280       425
Physical                             15            20        35
Total Project Cost, net of taxesl/    _____           4,35~    5,665
Financing Plan:
In US$ Thousands
Local     Foreign      Total     Percent
IDA                       965      4,135       5,1002/      90
Government                565        -           565        10
Total                   1,530      4,135       5,665       100
1/ Taxes included in the project are negligible, as all items would be
exempt of import duties and local taxes. An estimated cost table by
project component can be found in Annex VI.
2/  Including refinancing of the US$750,000 equivalen. advance from the
Project Preparation Facility (P-208 BU).



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
In US$ Thousands
IDA FY                  19841985               1986        1987
Annual                   500       1,600       1,800      1,200
Cumulative               500       2,100      3,900       5,100
Appraisal Report: None
Rate of Return: n.a.
Map: IBRD 17164



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR 4.9
million (US$5.1 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third
Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic mission visited Burundi in May 1983 and the
green cover Country Economic Memorandum was circulated in January 1984.
The following section incorporates its findings and conclusions. Its main
policy conclusions were incorporated 1i an Executive Summary and have been
presented to the Government in Febr:ary 1984t.
Background
3.      Burundi is a small, land-locked country in East-Central Africa.
It covers a territory of 27,835 square kilometers and has a population of
4.3 million inhabitants. With an estimated Gross National Product of
US$255 per capita it is one of the world's least developed countries. The
overall literacy rate is about 25X in 1982, morbidity is high, and basic
social infrastructures are still lacking. Limited natural resources, popu-
lation pressure, scarcity of qualified and experienced manpower, and
isolation from main trade routes, explain the country's poverty.
4.        Nearly 95% of Burundi's population is rural, living on scattered
homesteads. Bujumbura, the capital city, had about 165,000 inhabitants in
1982. Agriculture, mostly smallholders who grow subsistence crops and
coffee, contributes 60% of GDP at factor cost and 90% of merchandise
exports. A few large farms grow sugarcane, tea and quinine. Of the
approximate 2.3 million hectares of land available for agricultural use,
three fourths are currently exploited. Most of the unused land, however,
is of low soil fertility, or located in areas of risks from diseases to
humans and animals.
5.        The country is the second most densely populated country in
Africa, with a density of 154 per km2. Population pressure has led to
declining soil fertility, soil erosion and deforestation. Although



- 2 -
agricultural statistics are poor, there are indications that, in recent
years, fooderop production may have declined in per capita terms.
Population is projected to increase at 2.7% p.a. during the current
decade. The implications of rapid population growth for health facilities,
schools, employment and land availability are worrisome. IDA has
emphasized the urgent need to initiate family planning programs, but
progress has been minimal to date despite the Government's recent
acknowledgement of the problem (para. 17).
6.        The country has an extensive road network.  Main roads are
passable all year. There is an international airport at Bujumbura.
Burundi, however, remains dependent upon two transport routes to the Indian
Ocean, through neighboring countries for most of its imports and exports.
The Northern Route, by bighway from Bujumbura to Mombasa, Kenya, via Rwanda
and Uganda is 2,020 km. in length. This routc suffers from poor road
conditions, cumbersome administrative border procedures and dangerous
transiting. The Southern Route, by barge dorm Lake Tanganyika, then by
railway to Dar-es-Salaam, is 1,425 km.  It tends to be inefficient because
of long delays in clearing Bujumbura port, antiquated barges and
disruptions on the Tanzanian railway.
7.        Transport charges on these routes add from 25 to 300 percent to
the landed cost of imports. The passage of goods through neighboring coun-
tries is hindered by factors which are out of Burundi's control. Inter-
ruption of crucial supplies hinders project implementation and forces firms
to hold large stocks of inputs and spare parts. Significant progress has
been made recently to address some of these transport problems. For the
Northern Route, a unified transit document has been created, and agreements
have been reached concerning road tolls and vehicle weight limits. On the
Southern Route, a number of external donors have been financing improve-
ments in physical facilities at the ports of Kigoma and Dar-es-Salaam.
Recent Economic Developments, 1978-82
8.        Based on very recent data, Burundi's economic performance during
the 1978-82 Third Plan period was poor: GDP at factor cost rose by only
1.9% per year in real terms and due to a 42% decline in the external terms
of trade, gross domestic income (GDY) fell by over 1.5% per year. With
population rising at an estimated 2.4% per year during this period, GDY per
capita fell by nearly 3.9% per year.
9.        The terms of trade deterioration during the Third 'Plan period is
even more dramatic if measured from 1977 when the world price of Burundi's
Arabica coffee, which provides most of Burundi's export earnings, was
extremely high: about US$2.41 per pound.   By 1982, however, it had dropped
to only US$1.40 per pound. While coffee prices were falling, moreover,
Burundi's import prices were doubling. As a result, the country's terms
of trade declined from an index of 100 in 1977 to an index of 26 in 1982.



-3-
10.       Between 1978 and 1982, value added in food crop production de-
clined by 0.5% per year on average, in constant prices of 1970 while cash
crop production rose by about 3.2% per year. Although statistics of
agricultural production are unreliable, official sources indicate that
overall, the primary sector grew by only 0.4% per year. With a 65% share
in GDP at factor cost, this poor performance of the primary sector offset
the 3.4% growth of the secondary sector and the 6.2% growth of the tertiary
sector and resulted in a GDP growth of only 1.9% per year.
11.       An especially disappointing feature of the 1978-82 experience is
that real value added grew so slowly despite a vigorous effort to raise
investment. Gross domestic investment spending averaged about 13.5% of GDP
(at market prices) during the period, far above the approximate 8.0% share
of the previous five years. The public sector took the lead in this in-
vestment spending, accounting for about 90% of the total. Foreign donors
financed roughly 60X of the expenditure. IDA's relative importance grew
markedly, and over US$65 million was disbursed to Burundi during the five-
year period.
12.       Burundi has been quite successful in obtaining foreign aid from
the international community. During the 1978-82 period, per capita aid to
Burundi averaged US$30, which is high by African standards. Borrowing has
been largely on soft terms: at the end of 1982, two thirds of the
outstanding debt had an interest rate of 0.75% or less, and half of the
debt was to be repaid in 50 years. Debt service averaged roughly five
percent of Burundi's exports of goods and nonfactor services during the
1978-82 period but this is likely to rise to about 20X in the next few
years, which is already a heavy burden for the country. External aid
should therefore continue to be on grant or very concessional terms and
should include a substantial share of local cost financing.
Sectoral Developments and Issues
13.       In Agriculture, the most important issues for future development
relate to productivity increases, to soil protection, and erosion control.
Food crop promotion is essential in order to assure sufficient supplies for
a fast growing population. Better utilization of the country's traditional
export crop potential and diversification into new export crops appears
crucial because of limited possibilities for new export revenue earning
activities. Priority actions to be undertaken in agriculture are therefore
promotion of applied research, in particular on food crops, strengthening
and improvement of extension services, adequate and regular provision of
inputs, initiation of immediate and longer-term measures to protect the
country's agricultural potential, and amelioration of organization and
operations of the three main export crop subsectors (coffee, tea, and
cotton), principally through improvement in the management of agricultural
public enterprises and through adequate pricing and stabilization
policies. On the institutional side, further strengthening of agricultural



- 4 -
planning, and project preparation and monitoring capacity appears crucial
in order to assure effective design and implementation of projects. The
concept of Regional Development Companies, which the government has
recently established to promote integrated rural development, needs to he
carefully reviewed in order to adapt their design to the country's needs
and possibilities, in particular in terms of finances and human resources.
14.       Manufacturing Industry.  Industrialization is constrained by the
limited natural resources, low quality of the industrial labor force and
the acute shortage of managers as well as by the country's small market,                b
the low purchasing power of its population, the country's land-locked
position, a-.id difficult transport conditions which increase costs. Burundi
does offer, however, certain advantage; for industrial development. Basic
infrastructure is available in the major urban center at reasonable costs
and the country's land-locked situation constitutes a natural protection
for import substitution projects; domestic finance is readily available to
manufacturers; finally, Burundi maintains a liberal foreign exchange
system. During the 1977-82 period, protectionist measures created a
favorable climate for manufacturing expansion. Modern manufacturing value
added grew at an average annual rate of nearly 62 in real terms between
1978 and 1982, reaching about 5% of GDP in the latter year. Most of this
expansion was oriented to the domestic market. Production remained typical
of the first generation of import substitution, based on imported raw
materials with exports limited to processed coffee, tea, cotton and a few
other items. Capacity utilization was low because of the difficulty of
finding equipment adapted to the small size of the domestic market and
because of high tariffs in neighboring countries. Production costs are
high, but the quality of the products is generally well below international
standards. However, due to the monopolistic situation enjoyed by most
firms and the -cost-plus" system of price control, the sector is
profitable. Since the mid-1970s, the Government has participated in a
number of joint ventures with foreign interests and established public
enterprises to manage large industrial operations that the private sector
had avoided because of their complex management and large financial
requirements. Most of these public enterprises have been created without
an adequate financial structure and/or sufficient qualified personnel and
are now a drain on the budget. The projects they manage are also often of
doubtful viability. The Government recognizes these problems and has
recently created a Public Enterprises Commission (CGEP), to improve the
efficiency of public enterprises, sell off enterprises to private investors
when possible and phase out those unlikely to become viable.
15.       As prospects for the Burundi economy remain closely linked to the
outlook of the agricultural sector, the objective of industry should be to
support the development and modernization of agriculture. A manufacturing
sector memorandum, which was discussed with the Government in January
recommends that a selective import substitution strategy be pursued;



because of the large unused capacity in the manufacturing sector, Burundi
dill also need to promote exports. In this strategy, priority should be
given to the development of small and medium enterprises because of their
potential as a source of employment creation. In the short-term, apart
from the need to eliminate uneconomic projects from the current investment
plan, the most important tasks are to (i) improve the country's capacity to
prepare industrial projects and CiI) increase the capacity utilization of
existing firms. In the long term, a relaxation of quantitative
restrictions and price controls, the adoption of a more uniform tariff
structure and economic criteria for project appraisal are needed to
ILcrease economic efficiency, and encourage export and labor intensive
industries.
16.       Energy.  Burundi faces a range of problems in the energy sector.
The first and most important is the increasing scarcity of fuelvood and
other traditional fuels on which almost all of Burundi's population depends
for cooking and heating. Another is the high cost of oil Imports whose
value rose by 450% between 1977 and 1982 while volume rose by only 45%.
Finally, only 2% of the population has access to electricity. The
Government, with assistance from the UNDP/Bank energy management program
and other donors has started to implement a program (i) to improve forestry
sector management and policy; (ii) to reduce woodfuel demand by introducing
more efficient firewood and charcoal cookstoves and kilns; (iii) to develop
the use of peat as a substitute for wood, charcoal and petroleum products;
(iv) to investigate alternative and contingency supply arrangements for
oil-imports; and (v) to participate in the Ruzizi hydro-electric regional
project, improve the transmission network and establish a strong unit for
power planning. Exploration is also underway to assess the hydrocarbon
potential of Burundi.
17.       The Government of Burundi recently announced its intention to
adopt a program to reduce population growth and to establish, as a first
step, a Population Bureau in the Ministry of Interior. One of the first
task of the Population Bureau will be to plan and develop a population
program. Fertility reduction will have to be an essential part of this
program. This will, however, require substantial changes in the health
care system, which is presently geared to hospital-based curative services
and urban areas, as well as an increase in public spending on health, which
declined by 9% a year in real terms between 1977 and 1982.
18.       The Government has made a considerable effort to develop basic
education and increase primary enrollments. Average percentages of capital
and recurrent budgetary expenditures allocated to education are comparable
to those of other African countries. However, they are high considering
that the primary enrollment in public schools rate is only about 30% and
cannot be increased given present budgetary constraints. Measures are
therefore being taken to increase the share of resources which are devoted
to basic education, through the adoption of cost saving measures at the
secondary



- 6 -
and university level, and to use these resources more effectively, in
particular through the introduction of double shifting, and upgrading of
teacher training. The Ministry of Education is also providing assistance
to improve the qujality and scope of education given in private schools and
adult social centers.
The 1983-1987 Fourth Development Plan
19.       Burundi's Fourth Plan anticipates real GDP (at factor cost)
growth of 3.7% per year between 1982 and 1987, a rate of expansion which
would imply per capita growth on the order of one percent per year. Preli-
minary estimates for 1983 indicate real growth of less than 2.0%, however,
which would imply that growth during 1984-87 would have to be faster than
the average target rate. Barring an unexpected and substantial improvement
in coffee prices and a major inflow of fresh financial assistance, the
achievement of the Fourth Plan objectives does not seem likely at this
time.
20.       The Bank's analysis of Fourth Plan investment targets, which in-
volve'a total expenditure of FBuIO7.2 billion in constant prices of 1981
(roughly US$1.2 billion), indicates that not more than 60% of planned
investment spending will be feasible. Even with such a reduction, the
financing provided by external donors would have to rise from the proposed
70% share to ..s much as 802 of total cost.
21.       The Bank participated last February in the Round Table conference
of donors, and recommended that the proposed investment program be reduced
and that priority be given to the implementation of the more urgently
needed projects and associated policy measures.
22.       In addition to a lengthy list of project proposals requiring sub-
stantial amounts of external financing, Burundi needs large amounts of non-
project assistance. The International Monetary Fund sent an Article IV
mission to Burundi in November 1983. It remains to be seen whether Burundi
will request stand-by assistance. Since 1976, the Burundi Franc had been
pegged to the US$ at a rate of FBu9O per US$. On November 23, 1983, the
government announced a major currency adjustment. The FBu was de-linked
from the US$ and linked to the SDR at a rate of FBu122.70 per SDR,
representing a devaluation of 29.7% vis-a-vis the US$. This was a
courageous policy action, since Burundi may suffer hardship in tha short
run before enjoying benefits in the medium run. The objective is to swing
the domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture and export activities.
One immediate benefit of the currency adjustment should be a reduction of
the pressure exerted on the central bank, which administers Burundi's
import licensing regime as the allocation function should increasingly be
performed by the market.
23.       The lesson of the Third Plan period is that Burundi must
establish development priorities and select investment projects with great
care. The linkage between macroeconomic planning and the selection of
programs and projects needs to be improved. The private sector,
nongovernmental organizations, and cooperatives must be enlisted to the



maximum extent feasible to participate in the development effort.
Sustained technical assistance will be needed for several years in order to
strengthen the country's ability to identify, Prepare, and carry out
well-conceived plans and projects.
24.       Regional development in Central Africa will also be important to
Burundi's economy. In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a
convention establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries of the
Great Lakes" (CEPGL). The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi,
Rwanda, aims irLter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional
trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A major objective of
the Community is the electrification of the Great Lakes region. A first
step is the Ruzizi Project, cofinanced by the European Development Fund,
the regional Development Bank (BDEGL - see below), Italy, and IDA, which is
about to start. A glass container project, which is the first major regio-
nal industry to be implemented under the aegis of the CEPGL, is underway.
The three countries have set up a joint development bank (BDEGL) to finance
regional development projects, in particular exploitation of methane de-
posits in Lake Kivu and development of a fishing industry around Lake
Tanganyika. They have also instructed the secretariat of CEPGL to inves-
tigate ways of improving the transport system around the lake in order to
ease the transport bottlenecks affecting Burundi and Rwanda.
PART II - BANK GROUP OJLERATIONS
25.       Bank Group assistance started in 1966 and initially focussed on
the improvement of highway maintenance and construction, and the
development of coffee production. Since then Burundi has received twenty
one credits totalling US$176 million, mostly for agriculture,
infrastructure and human resources development. As of September 30, 1983,
nine credits, totalling about US$43 million had been totally disbursed.
IDA is now one of the main *aurces of financial assistance to Burundi.
26.       One credit (US$1.1 million) helped improve water supply to
Bujumbura; six credits (US$50 million) were for agriculture (two for coffee
production, one for fisheries, one for forestry and two for agricultural
development); four credits (US$44.4 million) helped start and support a
highway maintenance and improvement program; three education credits
(US$25.0 million), two of which are ongoing, aim at improving basic and
junior secondary education as well as vocational and technical training;
two c-redits (US$4.0 million) were made for technical assistance; and the
National Economic Development Bank received a credit of US$3.4 million. A
US$15.0 million credit for an Urban Project aims at improving the
conditions of the poor in the city of Bujumbura and a US$7.7 million credit
for a Telecommunications Project will contribute to reducing the country's



isolation and improving internal telecommunications. A Nickel Exploration
Project is financing a review of the viability of exploiting the country's
nickel deposits. A local construction industry project aims at developing
small scale enterprises operating in this sector and the production and
utilization of local construction materials. A glass container project was
approved by IFC in 1981. The plant has been built and container
fabrication started in 1983 (para. 24). Burundl has also received a
US$15.0 million credit under the Ruzizi II regional power project
benefitting Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits, and the status of disbursements as September 30,
1983.
27.       After some initial difficulties, performance in project imple-
mentation has improved in most sectors, as indicated by the disbursement
rate (para. 28). Most projects have suffered from sLart-up delays and some
were not completed as initially foreseen because of cost overruns. Disrup-
tions on Burundi's external supply routes were on several occasions the
cause for these delays. For instance, for most of 1979, equipment, cement
and fuel could not be imported becau3e of the Uganda-Tanzania war. Fur-
thermore, external difficulties were often compounded by poor project mana-
gement due to lack of appropriately trained personnel at all levels and
high management turnover. This has been remedied through provision of
technical assistance in the case of education, highways, and other infras-
tructure projects. Technical assistance has been less successful in
improving project management in the case of agriculture and the DFC. On
the whole, given existing constraints, project performance can be
considered satisfactory.
28.       In fiscal years 1981-83, disbursements for Burundi totalled
US$45.6 million compared to new commitments of US$92.3 million. In the
same period the average disbursement rate (ratio of disbursements to undis-
bursed balance) was 24 percent, which is above the average for countries of
the Eastern Africa Region.
29.       Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at strength-
ening absorptive capacity through training and technical assistance, assis-
ting the Government in defining and implementing a strategy to control
population growth, increasing agricultural productivity, improving the
transport and communication network, and developing mining and energy
resources. The proposed Third Technical Assistance Project would continue
to assist the Government in its efforts to improve the selection,
preparation, and implementation of projects. A rural water supply project,
a fourth highway project, and a communications project are to be appraised
shortly. To strengthen the analytical basis for our lending program and
assist the Government in the definition of appropriate sectoral policies,
several sector studies have been recently completed or are underway. An
energy assessment report was issued in June 1982, and follow up studies are
financed under the UNDP Bank Joint Management Program and under the Third
Technical Assistance Project. A financial sector study, health and
population study, and an industrial sector study were recently discussed
with the Government, and an agricultural sector memo is to be discussed
shortly.



- 9 -
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
30.       Manpower limitations are a serious constraint on Burundi's
development. At higher levels of responsibility, managers have seldom been
trained for the tasks they are performing and many lack professional
experience, as they are hired immediately after graduation. On the job
training suffers from the rarity of experienced managers. At lower levels,
severe shortages exist for white-collar positions (mid-level managers,
accountants, bookkeepers, etc.) and for skilled craftsmen (building trades,
mechanics, etc.). Inadequacies and shortages affect all sectors of the
economy, but they are particularly felt in the public sector where low
salaries do not attract the most skilled or experienced Burundians. Given
the importance of the public sector in the country's economy, the manpower
situation has hindered the implementation of the 1978-1982 Plan and
contributes to Burundi's continued dependency on expatriate skills.
31.       In 1981, bilateral donors accounted for about 80 percent of
technical assistance grants, the principal donors being Belgium, France,
the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States. The UN system was
the main multilateral donor (11 percent for the UNDP and 8 percent for
other UN agencies) but its funds have since been severely curtailed.
Technical assistance is provided in all sectors: education, agriculture,
and natural resources being the main recipients. Like other donors', IDA
projects include project related technical assistance components. In
addition, IDA's assistance has also been provided through two free-standing
technical assistance projects (para. 26). These projects have striven to
ensure the performance of essential planning and programming functions, and
to strengthen the institutions responsible for such functions.
Previous IDA Technical Assistance
First and Second Technical Assistance Projects
32.       When IDA-financed technical assistance started in 1976, the
shortage of trained nationals was severe, and the volume of IDA operations
was low (5 credits by March 1976). Consequently, the First Technical
Assistance credit tried to remedy the shortage of skills and to provide
assistance to holp identify feasible projects. Activities financed under
the First and Second Technical Assistance Credits (Credits 613-BU, US$1.5
million credit of Marc.i 19, 1976; and 917-BU, US$2.5 million credit of May
24, 1979) covered a broad range, including planning, statistics, peat
development, nickel development, agriculture, and financial institutions
(CADEBU and CAMOFI). By responding to pressing needs, Bank Group technical
assistance has proven useful and is appreciated by the Government. In
general, the objectives assigned to the projects have been met, although
components have had varied success. The review below summarizes the
experience gained under the Association's first two credits.
Assistance to the Ministry of Planning
33.       Macroeconomic Planning.  The first two credits financed the
services of a senior adviser in the Ministry of Planning from October 1976



- 10 -
to July 1982. His main accomplishments were to set up a macroeconomic
framework for planning activities, and to advise senior government
officials on policy issues. His work was well received and his advice
taken into consideration. With his assistance, the Ministry of Planning
has established a simple, but effective, computerized system of monitoring
investments in development projects in all sectors of the economy. The
inputs to the system are collected on project summaries which include
information on investment expenditures in current and constant terms, their
distribution over the plan period, the sector and province concerned, and
sources of financing. This information is updated regularly and various
outputs can be obtained, such as projects by sector, province, or source of
financing. This, as well as other relevant information, serves as input to
a macroeconomic model for Burundi which, in turn, is the basis for
government planning and budgeting.
34.       Young Burundians have been trained to run the computer models,
but they lack the experience and authority to identify emerging issues and
bring them to the attention of senior officials. Since his departure, the
IDA-financed senior adviser has been replaced by another expatriate,
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany. Since macroeconomic work is
now well established, Bank Group assistance to the Ministry of Planning
should now concentrate on project identification, preparation, monitoring,
and execution, and on the link between macroeconomic and project work.
35.       Statistics.  Besides the senior planning adviser, the first two
technical assistance credits also financed a senior statistician in the
Ministry of Planning. Two advisers have successively occupied this
position: the first, from October 1976 to October 1978; the second, from
October 1978 to November 1981. During their tenure, they helped organize
data collection, develop price indices, prepare national accounts, and
launch a number of surveys (industrial and commercial surveys; household
consumption survey; energy survey; road traffic; and fire-wood consumption
surveys). The second incumbent helped reorganize statistical services into
an independent entity (Service National des Etudes et Statistiques, SNES).
In August 1980, SNES was granted the status of autonomous agency, with the
Ministry of Planning as its parent ministry. This reorganization
contributed to improving the flexibility of SNES in designing its work
program and in responding to users' requests, thus increasing its
efficiency. In spite of these achievements, the overall performance of the
senior statisticians has been mixed, in part, because of the inherent
difficulty of setting-up a complete statistical system in Burundi.
36.       After November 1981, the position of senior statistician in SNES
was to be financed by UNDP, but the reduction of UNDP resources limited the
continuation of this assistance to January 1983. Since SNES' top officials
are competent and dedicated (SNES' director was trained abroad under a
fellowship financed by the Second Technical Assistance Credit), a senior
adviser is no longer needed. However, some divisions, which perform
important functions (in particular national accounts and agricultural
statistics), need assistance to pursue on-going efforts. The proposed
credit would therefore continue our assistance or complement other donors'
assistance to these divisions (para. 52).



- 11 -
Assistance to Agricultural Planning
37.       This assistance was provided under the Second Technical
Assistance Credit through two channels: the agricultural statistics
division of SNES, and the Directorate General for Agricultural Planning
(DGPA) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
38.       Agricultural Statistics Division in SNES.  The Second Technical
Assistance Credit financed the services of an agricultural statistician,
and the necessary equipment. The adviser has set up, in close
collaboration with national staff, a system of continuous agricultural
surveys designed to cover progressively all of the country's provinces.
Work was carried out on schedule, with final results for the first two
provinces (Ngozi and Gitega) available in June 1983. Data collection for
three more provinces was completed in December 1983.
39.       The success of this component results from a major training
effort by the expatriate statistician. About 25 SNES interviewers have
been trained on the job to work with agricultural extension workers in
order to gather the necessary information. Frequent site visits by the
expatriate statistician and other senior SNES staff contributed signifi-
cantly to field training, both of interviewers and extension workers. The
overall result is a reliable team of statistical support staff able to
follow-up on the initial effort. The expatriate adviser also prepared a
compendium of available agricultural statistics, and published two
documents (a typology of farming systems and a survey of the Makamba-
Mabanda region).  In September 1982, he introduced a microcomputer to speed
up analysis of the data collected by the surveys. Surveyors were trained
and use this equipment regularly.
4O.       DGPA.  This Directorate has four main responsibilities:
(i) design of overall agriculture and livestock policies (in
collaboration with other directorates in the Ministry of
Agriculture and with the Rural Division of the Ministry of
Planning);
(ii) preparation and/or evaluation of prefeasibility and feasibility
studies for specific projects;
(iii) monitoring of the activities of Regional Development Companies
(SRDs) and of the physical and financial implementation of
projects; and
(iv) ad-hoc interventions to assist project management (setting-up
accounting systems, preparing budgets and balance-sheets, setting
up organizations, etc.).
41.       DGPA comprises two divisions:  (i) Studies and Progr=ms; and (ii)
Monitoring and Control. The Second Technical Assistance Credit financed
the services of an expatriate adviser in each of the two divisions: an
agricultural economist in the Studies and Programs Division and a
management/accounting specialist in the Monitoring and Control Division.



- 12 -
42.       The agricultural economist has helped to elaborate methodologies
for project identification and feasibility studies and to set up an
agricultural documentation center. He participated, in collaboration
essentially with expatriates financed by the Federal Republic of Germany,
in the preparation of a livestock policy document. He also taught courses
on agricultural planning at the University of Burundi. The rapid turn-over
of staff and heavy travel schedule of the Chief of the Studies and Program
division have, however, limited on-the-job training and skills transfer.
Initially, this assistance also suffered from a lack of clarity in the
respective responsisilities for policy design and programming of DGPA and
the Rural Division in the Planning Ministry. Their respective
responsibilities have now been clarified and the two institutions have
collaborated to prepare the agriculture sector chapters on the Fourth
Development Plan (1983-87). In future, the Studies and Program Division is
expected to focus more sharply on policy design and project preparation.
43.       The task of the management/accounting specialist proved difficult
for three sets of reasons: (i) the lack of properly trained personnel in
the Monitoring and Control Division, including its Chief, forced the
adviser to carry out most of the work himself; (ii) the increased demand
for his services led to ad-hoc interventions and prevented a systematic and
comprehensive approach; and (iii) the lack of DGPA's statutory authority
over the directors of agricultural projects and SRD's hindered the
adviser's access to these entities' records and accounts. It is expected
that reorganization measures will alleviate this last problem (para. 54).
In spite of these difficulties, the adviser set up accounting systems in a
number of SRDs, participated in a comprehensive review of the tea
subsector, organized training seminars in management and accounting, and
trained bookkeepers for two IDA-financed agricultural projects (Ngozi and
Kirimiro).
44.       To improve DGPA efficiency, the Government, in agreement with
IDA, has decided to reorganize it by separating the management assistance
function from the Monitoring and Control Division. DGPA now includes three
divisions:
(i)   a Studies and Programs Division responsible for policy design,
preparation and/or evaluation of prefeasibility and feasibility
studies, and ex-post project evaluation;
(ii)  a Monitoring and Evaluation Division responsible for monitoring
the execution of the work programs of SRD's and agricultural
projects and for carrying out spot-evaluations of on-going
projects; and
(iii) a Management Assistance Division responsible for providing
assistance to project units in management, accounting, and
organizational matters.



- 13 -
Other Assistance
45.       The First and Second Technical Assistance Credits also financed a
number of feasibility and sector studies. In particular, to help the
Government design a program of action for the parastatal sector, the
Association financed an in-depth review of selected public enterprises.
This helped highlight the major issues, and identify a series of
institutional and financial measures to start addressing them. The dialogue
thus established with the Government should help identify the potential
role of the Association in providing assistance for restructuring the
parastatal sector so as to streamline it and improve its performance.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
46.       Project components were identified and prepared during
supervision of the Second Technical Assistance credit. Appraisal took
place in January-February 1983. A post-appraisal mission visited Burundi
i.n September 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 1 to
March 8, 1.984. The delegation from Burundi was led by H.E. Pierre Ngenzi,
Minister in the Presidency, reponsible for Planning.  The main features of
the pioject are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary given at the
beginning of this Report. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized
in Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.       The project's main objective is to strengthen project
identification, preparation, evaluation and monitoring in the Ministries of
Planning and Agriculture. Intermediate goals include:
(i)  setting up mechanisms to improve project identification,
preparation, evaluation and monitoring in the Ministry of
Planning, and to strengthen the link with macroeconomic planning;
(ii)  strengthening the capability of the Ministry of Agriculture's
Directorate General for Agricultural Planning (DGPA) to handle
the various .rages of the project cycle and to monitor the
management of agricultural projects and of Regional Development
Companies; and
(iii)  training in project work, project management, and statistics.
Project Description
48. Proposed project components are:
(M) Assistance to the Ministry of Planning:
(a) Project development and evaluation: the project would
finance statistical Pirveys, sector studies, prefeasibility



- 14 -
and feasibility studies, specialized consultants to help in
solving project implementation problems, and short-term
missions by the former senior adviser to the Ministry of
Planning (para. 33);
(b)  a project monitoring system, including the services of a
systems analyst for three-years, one vehicle, equipment, and
staff travel allowances;
(c)  strengthening the agricultural statistics and national
accounts divisions of SNES, the National Statistical Service
(one agricultural statistician for three years, training,
computing equipment, two vehicles, and staff travel
allowances); and
(d)  construction, equipment, and putting into operation
(documentalist for about 20 months) of a Documentation
Center in Bujumbura to centralize and keep up to date the
economic, social and technical information and data
pertaining to development projects.
(ii) Assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock,
Directorate General for Agricultural Planning (DGPA):
(a)  three advisers for three years each:  one management expert
to help set up management and accounting iystems in projects
and Regional Development Companies (SRD's); two agricultural
economists to assist in project monitorilg, project
evaluation, and policy development;
(b) training seminars for DGPA, agricultural proJects, and SRDW's
staff on project management and project work
(identification, preparation, appraisal, monitoring, and
evaluation); and
(c)  three four-wheel drive vehicles; computing equipment; staff
travel allowances and other operating costs; and
organization of agricultural documentation.
Detailed Features
A. Ministry of Planning: Project development and evaluation
49.       The Project would finance statistical surveys, sector studies,
prefeasibility and feasibility studies, and specialized consultants to help
in solving problems arising in the course of project execution. The
Directorate General of Programming would each year submit to the
Association two six-monthly programs of surveys and studies. The sectoral
breakdown of these programs, established on the basis of submissions by
technical ministries, would reflect the country's development priorities.
The six-monthly programs would be submitted in September and April, during
preparation and review of the investment budget (Section 3.05 of the draft



- 15 -
Development Credit Agreement). The Association would give its prior
approval to the detailed terms of reference for each of the studies,
as specified in the terms and conditions of employment of the consultants
who will carry them out (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). To promote the development of a local consulting capacity, a
local firm, SOMEBU, a mixed enterprise, would conduct some of the studies
(para.64).
Project Monitoring System
50.       In the long term, the project monitoring system would operate at
three levels: at project level for daily monitoring, at the technical
ministry level for all projects in a given sector, and at the Ministry of
Planning level for overview of macroeconomic consequences and supervision
of Plan implementation. Under such a system, the Ministry of Planning
should have resources enabling it to carry out audits and checks so as to
obtain information independent of that transmitted by the technical
ministries.  Given existing resources constraints, the system would be set
up gradually on the basis of existing monitoring units, namely the
Directorate General of Agricultural Planning (DGPA) in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (para. 40), the Industrial Promotion Center (CPI)
in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and the sectoral specialists in
the Ministry of Planning. The central system would be located in the
Directorate General for Programming. This should permit to draw upon the
experience of project implementation for the selection and programming of
new investments.
51.       The monitoring system would include preparation of quarterly
reports indicating the progress of projects, and comparing the rate at
which projects are being physically executed and expenditures are being
incurred. These reports would make it possible to identify problem
projects and to propose appropriate action. The proposed project would
finance the services of an adviser for three years to help establish such a
system. In collaboration with DGPA, CPI, and sector specialists in the
Ministry of Planning, this adviser would develop standard forms to program
and to monitor project activities and expenditures. This activity would
complement the computerized project list (para. 33), which would continue
to be refined and updated. The Project would also finance the equipment
needed to set up the project monitoring system.
Assistance to the National Statistical Service (SNES)
52.       The project would continue the work started under the Second
Technical Assistance Project. The credit wouald finance the services of an
agricultural statistician for three years to complete the agricultural
surveys in the remaining provinces (para. 38), to analyze the evolution of
farms surveyed in 1980-81, and to undertake new activities, including
in-depth study of a farm system typology, analysis of yields and processing
of agricultural products, a household consumption survey, and a survey of
non-farm activities in rural areas. The adviser would also assist SNES in
studying the possible establishment of a computing division, with a view to
introducing microcomputers in a concerted and systematic way. The credit



- 16 -
would finance complementary expertise in the computer field, equipment (one
vehicle each for the agricultural statistics and the national accounts
divisions, computing equipment, including a microcomputer for the national
accounts division) and training (in-country training for the staff of the
agricultural statistics and national accounts divisions, and two one-year
fellowships to train computer specialists abroad). Finally, the project
would finance ad-hoc missions to carry out an organizational diagnosis of
SNES and to help strengthen it.
53.       To permit the collection and regular updating of information
available in Burundi pertaining to project preparation, identification,
evaluation and monitoring, the project would finance the construction and
equipment of a Documentation Center of about 300 m2 of usable space. This
Center would, in particular, maintain a current set of the studies on
Burundi and on the Region. These studies are now often inaccessible and
thus frequently duplicated. The Center would serve the technical ministries
and the University. The Government has allocated a centrally located plot,
easily accessible, for the Center. Aftei the Center is built, the project
would finance the services of a documentalist for twenty months to help
organize its operations.
B. Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. Directorate General for
Agricultural Planning (DGPA)
54.       The project would continue the work started under the Second
Technical Assistance credit (paras. 41-44). It would be geared toward
reorganizing DGPA, over the project period, into a three-division
department comprising:  (i) a management assistance division;  (ii) a
monitoring and evaluation division; and (iii) a studies and programs
division. To strengthen DGPA's authority, the Minister of Agriculture and
Livestock has issued a directive informing projects and SRD's directors of
DGPA's role and instructing them to cooperate with the Directorate.
55. Experts. The credit would finance:
(i) a management expert: this expert would (a) help set up
accounting and management systems for major projects and SRD's
(Regional Development Companies); (b) establish a system for
annual programming of activities and expenditures of agricultural
projects and SRD's, compatible with the monitoring system set up
in the Ministry of Planning (para. 51); (c) study the
establishment in DGPA of a central project assistance division;
and (d) advise the Director General on matters pertaining to (a),
(b) and (c);
(ii) an agricultural economist in the Monitoring and Evaluation
Division: this expert would assist in setting up the monitoring
system and would make periodic evaluations (every six months or
every year) of selected projects. He would work in c1.se
cooperation with the management expert and with the system
analyst who will introduce the monitoring system in the Ministry
of Planning (para. 51); and



- 17 -
(iii) an agricultural economist in the Studies and Programs Division:
this expert would help to design policies, to identify, prepare,
and evaluate new projects, to develop methodologies for these
activities, and to supervise ex-post project evaluations.
56.       Training.  The credit would finance short-term in-service
training courses for DGPA staff, and two series of seminars on the project
cycle and the management of agricultural projects organized in Burundi for
DGPA, projects, and SRD's staff. EDI would help in selecting consultants
and in reviewing proposed training activities.  A summary of training
financed under the project can be found In Annex V.
57.       Equipment and Documentation.  The proposed project would finance
three four-wheel drive vehicles and operating expenditures, and computing
equipment (including microcomputers) to be chosen after a study which will
determine the requirements of the project units, the SRD's, and DGPA in the
context of the project monitoring system (para. 55-i). The project would
also finance the equipment necessary to organize the documents gathered by
DGPA, while the Documentation Center (para. 53) is built. These documents
would then be transferred to the Documentation Center.
Project Implementation
58.       The Ministry of Planning would coordinate the implementation of
the various Project components (Section 3.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Directorate General of Programming in the Ministry
of Planning would administer the project development and evaluation
component, and the contracts with the project monitoring specialist (para.
51) and with the firm providing long-term advisers to SNES and DGPA (para.
60). It would also be responsible for procurement of vehicles and equipment
provided to the Ministry of Planning, SNES, and DGPA. Finally, it would
administer local staff travel allowances for the project monitoring system
in the Ministry of Planning and for DGPA staff. These arrangements would be
similar to those existing under the Second Technical Assistance Credit,
which have proven satisfactory. Plans for the Documentation Center have
been prepared by the Ministry of Public Works, which would prepare the bid
request (para. 66). The Documentation Center would be placed under the
responsibility of SNES.
D            59.       The Mlnistry of Planning would: (i) establish and maintain
accounting records for all activities under its responsibility; and (ii)
open with the Bank of the Republic of Burundi a project account to finance
local expenditures incurred by the project. Funds would be deposited in
this account by the Government (US$113,000 equivalent on January 1 and July
1 of each year, ending on July 1, 1986; Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The first Government deposit would be made
on June 1, 1984 (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement)
and would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
60.       Recruitment. The project monitoring specialist in the Ministry of
Planning and the documentalist would be recruited as individual
consultants. Advisers to SNES and DGPA would be recruited through
consulting firms. The terms of reference of all long-term advisers were
agreed during negotiations (Annex IV). The Government would assign
qualified national staff in adequate number, and with appropriate prior
training, for project activities in SNES, in the Ministry of Planning, and
in DGPA (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Each long-term adviser would prepare a yearly work program vhich
would be approved by their supervisors and reviewed by the Association
(Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Programs would
include time-tables for the completion of planned activities and specify
the respective tasks of expatriate and national staff.
Project Costs
62.       Total project costs at the base date of October 1, 1983 have been
estimated at about US$5.7 million equivalent, of which US$4.2 million (74
percent) are foreign costs, and US$1.5 million (26 percent), local. The
Association would finance US$5.1 million equivalent (100 percent of foreign
costs and 60 percent of local costs) representing 90 percent of total
project costs. The Government's net contribution would amount to about
US$565,000 equivalent. A summary cost table appears in the Project and
Credit Summary. A cost table by project component can be found in Annex VI.
63.       The average staff-month for long-term experts (about 180 staff-
months) has been estimated at US$10,000, including housing and travel
allowances; the average staff-month for the documentalist (about 20
staff-months) has been estimated at US$5,000, including housing and travel
allowances; the average staff month for expatriate short-term consultants
(about 160 man-months) has been estimated at US$12,500. Construction costs
for the Documentation Center have been estimated by the Ministry of Public
Works. At about 50,000 BuF per square meter (US$430 equivalent) for 300 m2
of usable space, they are acceptable. Price contingencies have been added
as follows: 1983-international 8.0 percent, local 10.0 percent;
1984--international 7.5 percent, local 10 percent; 1985-international 7.3
percent, local 10.0 percent; and 1986-international 6.0 percent, local 8.0
percent. Physical contingencies have been added: 5.0 percent for
equipment, 10 percent for construction, and none for experts services.
Travel allowances for national staff have been estimated on the basis of
Government standards (BuF 1,500 or US$13 per day). Travel allowances of BuF
1,500 per day per participant have been included in cost estimates of
training seminars to be held in Burundi.



- 19 -
Procurement
64.       The selection of experts and consultants would be in accordance
with the Association's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published in August
1981. Price would not be a selection criterion. The Government would
approach a local firm, SOMEBU, for proposals to conduct some of the simpler
studies financed by the project development and evaluation component
(para.49 and Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). For
the larger studies, proposals would be invited from foreign firms. 'SOMEBU
has developed its expertise in two areas (agriculture and civil engineering
for small projects) and has competent national staff to cover them.
65.       Equipment (vehicles, office furniture, typewriters, and office
machines) not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent after grouping would be
procured locally after quotations from three firms which can provide proper
customer services. All other equipment would be procured through ICB in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
66.       Construction of the Documentation Center would be carried out
after local competitive bidding or by force account, whichever is the least
cost method.
Disbursements
67.       Funds from the credit would be disbursed over three years on the
following basis:
(i) 100 percent of total expenditures for recrui-tment and services of
long-term advisers;
(is)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for activities financed under the Project
development and evaluation component;
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles and equipment;
(iv) 100 percent of total expenditures for training activities;
(v) 80 percent of expenditures for construction and equipment of the
Documentation Center;
(vi) 60 percent of expenditures for operating costs of vehicles
procured urj - the project; and
(vii) 60 percent of domestic travel expenditures of local staff.



- 20 -
68.       Disbursements would be fully documented except those for local
expenditures against staff travel allowances, training, and small equipment
which would be reimbursed by the Association according to the above
percentages upon submission of statements of Pxpenditures. An advance of
US$500,000 under the Project Preparation Facility was granted to the
Government in June 1982 and a supplementary advance of US$250,000 in
October 1983 (P-208 BU). It would be refinanced by the proposed credit
(Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Audit
69.       Project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Special attention would be paid to
expenditures reimbursed under statements of expenditures.
Project Implementation Schedule
70.       The proposed credit is expected to become effective in July
1984. The agricultural statistician in SNES and one of the advisers to
DGPA are already in Burundi. Training seminars would start in January
1985. Bids for the Documentation Center would be requested in January 1985,
construction would start around March 1985, and the documentalist would
arrive around June 1985. The Closing Date would be March 31, 1988.
Benefits and Risks
71.       The project would continue strengthening the Ministry of
Planning, SNES, and the Ministry of Agriculture. By focusing on project
preparation, monitoring, and evaluation, the proposed activities would
improve the quality of new projects, and the management of on-going ones.
They would also strengthen the link between macroeconomic and project work
in Burundi's planning system. On-the-job training, seminars in Burundi, and
visits and fellowships abroad would help increase the mumber of Burundians
with project preparation and management skills.
72.       Risks associated with the project are the high turn-over rates of
Burundian staff and the need to guarantee institutional arrangements
through which expatriates can provide efficient services. These risks are
minimized by project design: improved working conditions in the Ministries
of Planning and Agriculture would provide an incentive to attract and to
retain qualified staff; and agreed institutional arrangements (especially
in DGPA) take previous experience into account. Recruitment of advisers
for SNES and DGPA would not be a problem, as current contracts are likely
to be extended in view of the advisers' satisfactory performance.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.  Special
conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III of this report.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington D.C.
March 22, 1984



-  22 -                     Annex I (Page 1 of 5)
r A 8 L E' 3A                                          FACE L
HUIR1NUL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlHEET
IURUNDI                                 REFERENcE. CROUS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Is
? .                        t805(HST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
.6          lb  KRECENT  lb          LOW IHCDliE              MIDDLE INC I :
I          lf ulu    EsTiMATE-      AFKICA S. UF S,:H1ARA     AFRICA S. OV SAIAbA
AREA (TlUSAND Su. M1)
TOTAL                                  Z7.D         27.5        27.D
;gRlCULTUKRAL                          15.2        LO.0         2.2
CGr PEE CAPITA (USS)                      bU.0       10.u         230.0 I/          :2.6                        1147.9
NEERC? mNSUMPTOri  PE  CAPILTA
(KRlII.ClKUSF (UAL EqUIVALENT)         11.1        llI.u        16.0                                           724.2
POPULATION AN VITAL SrATISTICS
PoPULATIUNltU-MFEAK (THOUSANDS)   :1851.U        3350.U       4:2Y.U
URAN uPOPULATION (: OF TOTAL)           .2          2.2          2.1                19.5                        L.5
PuPULATION PROJECTIONS
rolFULATION IN YSAR 2000 (HILL)                                7.3
STATIONARY POPULArLUO  (HILL)                                 Z6.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. KS.ECNED                                155
POPULArtuN uENSlTY
PEK SQ. 1l.                         102.4       1ZU.4        147.8 2/             29.5                        5b.5
PER Sq. R4. AGRI. LAXD              ISJ.[       17d.2        185.7                94.3                       131.1
PoPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
O-LA YRS                            42.6        43.8         44.1                45.0                        45.9
15-4 YNHS                           54.6         53.2         52.9                52.1                        51.2
u5 AWD ABUVL                          2.9         J.0          3.1                 2.Yi                        2.E
OPU.UATIUN tROUWTI RATE (2)
TUTAL                                 1.6          1.6          2.1  31            2.8                         2.8
UKRAJi                                1.b         1.6          2.7                 b. '                        5.3
CRUDE BRTHi RATE (PERt [THOUS)         4b.9        44.4         46.3                47.9                        47.b
CKUUE DEATH RATE (PEd r uOS)           Zb.7        4.1         2U.3                19.2                        15.2
GRoSS REPRUUUCTION NATE                 3.u         2.9           3.2                3.2                         3.2
FAiIILY PLAXNING
ACCEPrURS. AAdNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (Z OF HARRI3D WOMEN)
FOOD AND NITELTLON
ItNEX OF FOOD PrOD. PER CAPITA
(19b9-71-IUU)                         IO13.0      1UO.U         99.0                J7.b                        95.7
PEA CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES Ct OF REKmLIREMENTS)       97.u        9e.0         96.U                88.0                        97.1
POTElinS (RAMS PER DAY)              60.0        61.0         59.U                51.2                        56.0
UF WIICII ANIMAL AND PULSE          30.0        30.0         3L.01c              18.1                        17.Z
CRI1LD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE           32.8        29.4          24.u               25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIVE EXPCCr. AT BIRTH (YEARtS)         37.2        39.7          45.0               47.4                        51.9
INFANT NOR?. RATE (PER THOUS)         150.3       138.7        119.t.              126.5                       117.b
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
rOTAL                                  ..           ..          ..                24.7                        25.4
UKBAN                                  ..        77.0         94.0                56.8                        70.5
HUtAL                                  ..           I. ..                          8.1                        12.J
ACCESS TU EXCKRTA JISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          ..                28.1
URdA;                                  ..        9b.U          95.0               b5.71
RURAL                                  ..          Z. ..1.
PoPULATIuN PEd P.YSICI.AN          96s7u.u      55830.0      45U2U.OId           27420.6                     12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              453U.0      74490o u     b1U.U77r            3456.2                      229Z.0
POP. Pla  iRuspyrAL BEU
TurAL                               88U.U        740.0           ..             1153.1                     1W75.4
UKRBA                                30.u        110.0          ..               3bu.e                       40z.3
RUoRAL                             372u.0      1U7U.0           ..              3177.5                      3926.7
AVHISSIONS PCR HOSPITAL BEU               .
tlOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF IIOUSEIIULD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URdAN                                  ..           ..           .                   ..
RURAL                                  . .
AVERA6E NO. OF PFRS0NS/RNOOP
TOTAL
UKdAR                                  ..           ..
KUHAL                                  ..           ..
ACCiSS To ELLCr. (A OF DWELLl;;iNS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
KURAN                                  .. .L
RURAL                                  ..           ...                              ..



-23-                               Annex I (Page 2 of 5)
T A L E  34 'A MAu  2
bU.RUNDI                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S1ELT
BURUNDI                                KLFeNKENCL UlOUOPS (WELGIITED AVERAGES B.
MOST                       (MOST RECLNT ESTIMATE) lb
b           J197 lb  RECENT  b       LOW INCOME              HIDCLCTNcoHe
19bO=b      197C    ESTIMATE-        AFIt4CA S. OF SAIARA     AFRICA S. OP SABARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TUTAL                     18.U         29.0        29.0                63.9                       97.2
MALC                     27.U        39.0         35.0                73.b                      103.1
FAiALE                    9.0        19.U         23.0                51.b                       88.5
SICONUARYl TUTAO                     l.U          1.U         3.0                12.5                       17.2
HALE                      1.0         3.0          4.0               le.7                        23.5
VEHALe                    L.o         1.0          2.U                 d.1                       14.2
VUCATIUNAL (S OF SECUNUARY)           35.U         11.6        18.U/o               7.3                         S.2
PUPIIIrf1A-rLItA RWAIU
PRIlMARY                            3o.u         31.0        37.0                46.4                       42.9
SeCUNUARY                           15.0         LL.0        L4.0/r              25.1                       23.7
AULT LItERACY MATY  (;)               IJ.9/1         ..        2s.,                36.5                        37.1
COIUSUWTION
PASSENUEK CAIKS/IIlOUSAND POP           1.L         1.1         1.31h               3.3                       18.8
KAUIJ RECELVELRS/TIIDUSASN  POP       20.0         19.4        317.                45.3                       97.8
TV RECEIVLERS/TIIUUSAND POP              ..          ..           ..                 2.2                       18.6
.NEWSP.PE  ('DAILY CENERAL
IRTCREST") CIRCULAT10n
PEKt TIOULSAND PUPULATION               ..         U.1         0.41i               4.7                       18.2
CINEMA ANUAU. ATTENUANCE/CAPITA        0-1"k         *-         0.0                 1.0                        U.6
LABOR RQCE
TOTAL LABOt FORCE (rTous)           1494.0       167b.0      1995.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    45.Y         45.3        44.7                34.5                       36.1
A;RICULTURE (Pr%CF.NT)              90.0         81.U        d4.0                76.9                       5b.8
LNOUSrKY (PEKCENT)                   3.U          4.U         5.0                 9.b                       17.5
PaRTlCIPATION MLATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                52.4        5U.U        47.2                40.9                       37.0
MALE                                5d.3         56.0        53.b                53.0                       47.1
FEALE.                              46.9         44.4        41.1                28.9                       27.0
ECU:&JMIC uCPENUENCCY RATIo            0.9          0.9         1.0                 1.2                         1.3
lNCOE DlSlII1UTION
Pt.KCEJt JF PKRVATE ENCUML
KeCEIVEU BY
HIciuTsr 52 OF IUUSEIIULDS            ..
mGdNEST 0  OF aIOUSEIOLS              ....
LUWEST 202 OF INOUSEIIOLDS            ..
LOWEST 4U0  OF IWUSEIUILDS            ..
POT!E TARC!T -RUP
LST1MATED ABSOLUTC POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URKAN                                  ..          .        213.0 1             165.9                      534.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       136.0                67.4                      255.9
ESbL9ATED RELATIVE POVERTY ICUOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBA4                                  ..          ..           ..              100.8                      491.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..        37.011              64.b                      185.1
ESTIHATED POP. BELOW ARSOLUTE
PUVERTY LNCUME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        55.0                39.5
NURAL                                  ..          ..        d5.01               b9.0
.. tr AVAILAJL2
NuT APPLICABLE
U 0 T L 5
/a  The group averages for each ltdicator arc populatlon-weighted arithmetIc mans. Cove-age of countries an_ the
Indlcators depeads on ovlIsability of d..ta and is not unLEure.
/b  Unless otheratse noted, 'Data for 1960' refer to ray year between L959 und 1961; -Data for 197U0  between 1969 and
1971 ano data for Fost Recent LELimate' betwe.-n 1979 and 181.
/c  1977; /d 1975; tc This improvement Is based un Lincrease ins technicAl education sector; if Including secondary
tea3hebs vocataonal education; 1; 1962; /h 1976; /1 1975; al 1973.
May 1983
The folloving figures reflect the most recently available estimates.
1/ 255
Z/ 154
'SI 2.4



-24-                                                            Annex I (Page 3 of 5)
d-reuerler  olegnlose   Macam. lmeel.. aM  v--r.t.rm   .retail  maJ... dotl-ree   bee                          etres
"iP  rmfreeoo,  group  rm-t.temmsr try ,rm-p .1mamb                    Ul eosry s-d  Ill a retoo          l,, .Promoa  womb maeo 1ao  bi ..s aetau  i,rss  ion. ton reniry area.  ml the
-hbs    ss.r  toet'   IIe90s  levee  lom   prore  igred  Mte   4ddle le-a  worth Afria and 'iddle41  late" me,ea  be-... .1 seetas    ct-ielt
allilllmI.        thereleren-  rmep olam  lb. ateraget are oealmsasta   -igblnd artthteaivnm    a    at  .lvte  end eIN, W            teir leeeM  meojrily IotOhs -estrmee  Im a
armoyha. dta Pe   bL= mdstete   blW.ahemo   -r..erage-m            l t.mrl.aoglbs Iodtrsocre deiesnd  .n the    .1 aeisbit  at -dali an . neA       emee  -aete  meeat be
steaied  ie rmai le   ergm- ee ,o  imiale  me aeo.orhe.  The..                   cmr..   stIr  -aam.1I i - r I-r ' l. ..I_ Ie   sdsoramamm a              mosg ibs.msal   n
1r  Itleseass *q.ho.l                                                                                  AemaanvtIyi.m        oeilaldeoe  e   .emrlrreem
Telal -Tals  merar  arms teprlmaooa lied ares ral lulm  oUtE.rsi 1510                                   bttraouesalior-   wdca.aLa  nilvmrsty invel
11 . n   timee dats.L.a.1t-    teeml   ee.- sella   dietdse  by eaeOor sO petIai.ri
fe   rmo    alree. earhel and hilk,h-e. srde-.s  Is . lie    - llleti  mo.                  murmim o.emltoe
1i7r and lim1 data.                                                                               Wmeltet0.  I.vlihd-emm  ehs  edees      srais ati
.rOa~se  raal  deleem  h  moirrspmatic meoe  1 hospital bdlm
lfsl rig CA_T  it1i) m tIarpeeUp,         s*1mImat rooren  mAle1 priest                                  slllbl   Fnbilhie  a.nd pral.alepesr1 smd tyscilire  INt.Ita  and
tflfliFe    soermis  Msmt  am  ace  F-sei Aria. Cloti-am  aMielm1                             rsaeitlseelrn                etmlmemihlmest                    ummi   ttalte
miot.  tI'lep otid mismeaea                                                                            byi    antesoe.iim    mabibml nplvtdimo  pramsmptl1 mntmdta
c rs ar   et ii,riadsi.  msra1 bsapitlals  Inesere omIad. inmlib Aan
tastyeessnnieuelm   AVma-Ama ap.-an  -e.-aetOaal.    seoea                                       medi-alcemesr  east              IVeaael  s"tale   by a odYstsmaa that  1ps moemesi
iih0. islet, as4 aim' dais.                                                                            Urbsebepti Aerlodo 000M. prealmulgmnsai.  .   rommoala.L. tdr
bttita*eaesi  r cratleepaai  adW  -dim. ai a     M arrL."lr t.e.tr..
"" '              cmiii. ttyttmc6                                                                        ij hroiet i-ecia.  -c  imended esig  Mdrls  tsial.
M,iNsihIe.'O-er e.esme  -As.o  Isl .15   miss  mili, 1                     and mis 14"IdMl.iasn -   lleseite  1 ,4 - TUCtai eeobmt atalmem                          tear dimebrmee
dmts.                                                                       tin~~~~~~~~~~~1   I,t.pto  dIsds  UV the msehr eel hdme
I, ta  meIrse.       ae mm.sm    utaI.i A                                                                          =20c 2e%ioeebldOertst1 e   etmlit1-teti.  rb.  ndcao
frasAjim   r~yc  onn                                                                         A  etoehmi  tooeaipmrs  a tmnrat  edivdha..a  ite chas adingqiseW.
Wt. Cer.isso  paiait piicln    r  lea   eaMan   ba   acsis.  A bsrdor er lsdgsr err iimyeahallddla
ttLIY0yae  e   e  si  ei eartail   anpr latiiy                                                     b  %'b'utId tar m-aiettel-  leepeme..
pc.Th. Meraetsrmw la   eila   at   lmhe   b"elvP soccpe   ot.
esebiesisse m   ortaity  andfartlalytrsl   .   rlsim    epmm                               e ts:st. _b_s,  an  rura-l   dlieaeeatet
pepootte  tie  mavotente   -  in1 3 basins mf .th   prejetad ehrpitm-..                     prmty coslaeppliee   tial   elssm                         ids   gdat
11rllt  rt  is  rspaeemI level.  ti..tea  sites atattseaLrW                                       tsormtititnvealdetmisseeerarmedtem.et
et atlesre1 c       -mltlee  . reTcbed                                                             times eeIms1r   M   ..  toi -aScblwo   hc   bsattl ostas
tr       -ay_sianlew                t.   -1 eirto sill lea reovi,st.                              e ,nemdv.boy        sa.mt s.pIsett  -eote  at a1bsteeldr           seaeda
IFyocepoiI.tstteoe60.Wt~-t   t  -1-- bematy                                                         de btla   imili. ti leas  Ic pea. ea  ppram-d pi-LesyLsmtretl.
1.1 I ,v~ia .tint.lull. ae     I... dor.                                                              opiel.. as.ea    o i    is t- tat  me-tl  ate:  t    -c-mpoodme    1eem   term
revma  ha   giinr Lit    - Cp.td  am oT.                n   arilmr I laM                               aeerali  emP-itdslde                  -tb    1t..    .hI
cu   tcS  rleds and mimet d           .,ci     .k1OW.   (U   Mt.....sraioad.. eReimee  1tesreee   mt mret-ehm) t- eetame 1ty.etlewilr
rtelataeta  Wrursr    remi..i - Childie- fl)-I& oc-cml  eriM-e-t  (1$-                               ieadtnhtt,mmtr'mi. si cabr cet.so    prt   msad
-1 mrm.ed   9retre   101 peac  and  me-l at ppertestago  at  id-ynar                            mIly mi a  daeiset-ta  ft  -Acedry letitoileW.a
Mmstslaale iitll  Imite. WId 19mm data.-aeslrmi                                                   fP,it.ce   si  -trti.adeeeav-TtLttemierendm
PmImoiottme Cisul Sate teeceti)    .t. anal            X.w   ca-el tetal mId1-                         proc   e   aeiayissedvddb   hr    lItahr .   io  m
year popLetitet.      ife-a   au ro.-ta da l9l0-mi.                                                  reo1md mm tusl..
resateCr-.%an  tm e) - scha . - eo   ,-osh cane  sO rch-                                      Mmitteeiert   (ec              l -  ALacrt  adote  ski  o   en n   -tJit) We
papoataes Ir a1-W. 1iLOti and ICtImmi                                                              ocsas         ts,i        t Mel   ':esire  ae   i  or  an  tn.
Creel.tslt   mae inr  ttacaad)    etmul lvebuls Ii                                                                                                                IIrandml  ld
Ciric 2bath maim leer lbseast    Annual deateb  psi tham                at md-pear                   laamenear-far. tir heea t       tseeiateml - eSys  ear   prpite   etcr
r~Iulf-p ii             pridIItI  aprima pr..smt am s-epoelvMedia   -'etme testaee   nsulte    All typo.. 41 romlor  fear idia
lila.                                                                                                llvoe-d ressieecei           re it to -ad ae fe.t mi ne ragLotttaila    tI VWd
re't  fleetve    talenmm.  metal-Ihe   Ad) - ONImeeamer atW eF eept.re                          am a   . effLt  data, tear reat year  may mat is meperble cim, ear
ml leivib-tememreal dciess sndsr aearaeem  t etmattmlyrin                                se-irle amllhad  I te..nmee.
plMeegim.                                                                                         lv hcevre tie-tosam   eeUp.taii ) -.TV  -Isire. Ws  ba                  -td:e  in
ei-tteioete    toi  iteree  a  ea.ned  -e-Ie  - c.eng   1mrtdseee -ol.Ilc  -a laeNd rmpeio-1mm: e-le=e  uvlle-ad TV rsoucar
.i     lfmarriedn...m    ...o. age 4 r.ra,-1c. ~atn  itieae. ln    Floae  orl                                                                  s   T o. thavre
-Pt  eleitltetelrilee  e    .1   sea  tearetccmeaor                                                                                                                     W 51M-5pr11i-its
lel,ettn- retec lees--  -ec CatsIlhitIlje  -lnolse   slt                                                .aiete    dersed rylralo teteraeme  seitl..tescodrd
eet  enoi.o  L    Iced " "'sdta-e   -reI..m ertastmn  ada  h. odsl1ye  If It appore at lnci Inc ilem  s NnW.h
ledsot.-  rasdr       -e al..  C-:tdil  ro  -r pr-esr  500dm (meg.                           Cl..-a iM Net  rena          s  Cents  "year - .td em abe mor .
ocartame ienmea  sO  tgar)  bieb  re edhim  ed e,,a..mmtrtame    Is                 tter        ied detiugtin tsa.  iemlgabol    tn dave-at eL-ma  eoM
sulenseAte   are  -elmad.r    Areh   t  pnd.  tm .-       sbort. reeetr  Ismile SitW
deta.                                                                               LAWS 111K!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~L.  bi.Wi.
beepeisentm  wer  enriated  y 750botadso phalmltic yl nee.Pftee  wrml        ~           jaf3j~ f  - ae-1 -a                      aelaetrery  hmte  en
ogs aM  ee  disiribole vi popletm L- a    . sie ing  t petevt  L.  ct.                      Ms.,r Ce.sel-lho  larv  im eWlg M est.R.eie F                 so. IMalacwrt
onOeeond  cti  till-t,4  liltDb.d eM        y mist data,                                        and v%iat tetteitive w-m and gs . a. lsrestst  fl   trsi labo  lmtem   mu.
revroeno.avev  cLr.ottl(rl.o te1 -da                - proisies si.1   a  earttt                           -101 an    W-mimL1I data.%                               9M-d1614..
sot tepr   s1-tee  1er day. So1       tpi   i1m    sdmls  a.  bs1.9erlv-oio   braLty tcre.)-nml.ae, and WP-.q   -feeWt - Port:ipoil  or 
maq=ireavi   fee all`rN:trlme         b1nhiiad by  DAge  poeldm  Imi elcit                          veti.tli  rain  .rc  epeted  Wa t.ril mas          Ind lea   1 lab, For-a
palso piil,m  .ielch El graso  k.bsd ha aetmel prlsreme.  Then                                       lis. flyo0  an  lil  dote   TIN.- are ha-d em lIto.  petilelpciWL rte
m..sndtcr o. rLasr ibme Ih.. .1 71   et at tote1 pretlWIe 23 Srea                                    m's-tiSrtMag  ass-m    t .mrs- oF the pepelattoa. an  leg tree trend,  A
a, emmoa  l p:-tI. asa        -M.etg   f.r th. -rtrd. , me.nd by FAD mm t'                           few   -Iatlestem   ale  r    .otlcaai  -siv
T.iv  ted Fond serve:  m9il-b). lila en  mien 4ate.                                                ict-mitheel- tt   tit. - Rtai  c  pepestAstm- ds NI.,    and 015 and over ta
idaa     _tnt m.,                       -iItatmtune1.1                                                                                     %-        I  11  -111-   b    ,1-  
Mge A-s.  I-  yar.  i-t titer. am ibi  ag  ar-a; ter meet e-Lseleping                                pete. * ibetI  fre                  r_psia  20 p.rcan. and pseom  hl0 lergn  eat
teeerlsa data deid  ryetifi. tablet lihe. li0 and tiM   duo..                                        bt-ctemide
Aut-i                                                                                                Pfmtrw Taci.T cSti7t
Ut. ratnttr    tate mbt (Y-.r) -            -e.erg   mete  tF yoro ml Ills.elea                      Tin Fmio         eiom   armM  veer  pprtmoten    --etr-   fl pverty lavela  and
at bhitl  ie   il M W I 34  dat.                                                                     ehat1  be leteePreted wih[l     midre -t -I-ele.
Iml.ant  r-italr  mote leer t              Anad) - tmo  d,orbs ee lafants -odnr en                   ttlso d Ab-las Nvet I--..  tr-s  trIll Mr capIta      r                 n   ua
yeern   g  vrtmmeimm  bIrtOn; 1914. 11070 and 19tt dolt.                                              fult   eetytntisrI                         ee  le-vel ble  Mtt   a ellso
nememelsoed ater  nh  W tta Ire  prattsd borebeo.  apelag  * n-ra eltv    o t, iNcoe  leve  to _m-tsv  atZ                                                -veaWNI  c_PI..e
oetiary sol.) am rrteo         t fs   a  theIr imP-tiav  rwattme          . to                       Wovle   ee   1teeetr.trnlvlI   eie    r    b   ee
-eba oco  a  ubit, rentals s-  taedpoot 1aeai.t noe   recha 200 MLtect                               leve  with -djeti -      a  hlgber rm   tic.   sobcas
ftc  a  on  so  ha  -emdmeed st bela  within   ,smheateee   bmttste   moat   ee   hlaPvre --ret evel rWtrrtkt                                                                 trba.
eeht  m   o  hu.wid dm sot hav  cs.1m aw dtpe,tss                 et
tIes day le rtmebia tho faefly'e cate  -vd..
mm!e  -M rm ofpea a    miteal  urZ,  MrtalmQb  ert
eny lelet  cncctsiuaid-1 tmel  subh -c sitteu  tratet.f sItlmt.l  and Soca  bra D                                                                                      litiomie
beamO  -arta and  a.te-eatr  by  eerhete  yist  -r the etA Of pit                                                                     Icaei  latlytte and Preletfet .lermpavet
5ertel  eMN titir LtenIlatiam.                                                                                                                           bIy mimi



-25-                                       Annex I (Page 4 of 5)
COUNTRY DATA
AREA                                              HRIULATIM                                    MMY
27,865 1w2                            4.3 million (idd 1982)                           155 hi2 of total ar
Total Agrieadture 17,200 k2           RNate of grmth 2.4X (1977-82)
POPULMlJll CIAREIICS       1980                                    WUAI (1979)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)          45                           ltopu1atin per phyaidan    45,020
Crule Death Rate (per 1,000)          22                           Ibpulation per hwpital bad    744 (197Uj
Aa:lss TD PeD w;W                                                  ACMSS MD ELTCfRT
Urbln pouIatim, Z                    94                           Z oE popuLtim  - total          2Z
- rural          (I
NflRIrMN (1974-78)                                                 EIDCAMN (1978-82)
calorie Intake as Z of resuireints    99                           Adlt lteracy rate Z            25.0
Per capita potein intake (ga/day)  61                              Prduy adwol enrolhemt Z        30.0
a/
GNP PR WE IN 192:. US255
GPM  DO!IC POU                                                     ANU  RAM OF GEM   (X, maxtant preeB)
1982 Val;ue
:NL Ilion         Z          1970-77    1978-82       1982
MP at lkrlaet prices                  1,110.3        100.0             3.1       -0.1        -1.0
Gross Domestic Investmnt                141.1         12.7            28.3       -0.9      -29.5
Groas Natloil Swing                      12.6          1.1            17.7      -28.9      -79.2
Curret Amount Deficit                  -130.8        -11.8             .          0.9       67.0
tBr  of Goods, CGS                      107.8          9.7            -1.9       10.1        12.0
aports of Gods, ES                      261.0         23.5            7.7         4.1       18.5
cumiw, tABOR FOaR Am nworivm IN 1982
Vlaue added                labor Force           V.A. Fer imrer
US$ MNlllcn       Z           '1C            Z        US$          Z
Agriculture                             595.2         59.8         1,762         82.3       337.8      71.5
Induatry                                164.2         16.2           270         12.6      6C8.1      128.6
iErviCes                               252.7          25.0          109           5.1    2,318.3      490.4
Total/Average                       1,012.1        100.0         2,141        113.O      472.7     100.0
FIRMral Gorvmt
(-                Pe Mrcna of GOP
1982        1982       1977-81
Oirrent Revemie                      13,951           12.8            13.6
Carrent Expend&ture                  13,691           12.6            10.5
Orrent Surplus                          250            0.2             3.1
Capital Expendlture b/               12,78D           11.7            12.8
External AssIshanee                  (8,.O2)          (7.3)           (7.1)
a/ Atlas  .dxdo1.
I  elues pbLic eqtrse, foEiz finaee projec, ard debt repayrmt.
Not applicable.
Not available.
Note: All cmuersiQs t dollars in this table are at the average FBu9O per USS exchae rate
prevawiing durig tie priod amer.



Annex I (Page 5 of 5)
MMEh, REDMr and PRIM                   1977         1978        1979         1980         1981        1982
(Million Flu outstanding erd period)
1,ey and Quasi-ney                    6,906        9,696       11,034      12,004       15,476      15,300
Bark credit to Central Govenont         185        1,508       3,860        4,49        7,158        8,650
Bark credit to Private Sector         2,715        5,835       8,387        9,850      12,776       12,%9
(Percentag or Index Nimbers)
liney and Qasi-M+iey as Z of GiP       13.8         17.3        15.2         13.4         15.4        14.0
General Price Irndex (1970.100)       170.0        216.4       271.6        305.1        337.1       351.4
Amkl percentage cge in:
Gneral Prce Index                      12.9         27.3        25.5         12.3        10.5          4.2
lank credit to Public Sector          -78.7        715.1       156.0         16.5        59.2         20.8
Bark credit to Private Sector          23.1        115.0        43.7         17.6        29.6          1.5
BALA1E OF PAYMEN71S                                                   NO    MISE EKPOS  (AVERMAE 1977-82)
1979   1980   1981   1982                          US$ million  %
MUioi US iDllars)
Exports (glrfs)                         112      74      89    108   Coffee                87.7       90.7
imports (glnfs)                         193    205    208    261   Cotton                   1.8        1.9
Resource gap (deficit  -)               -81   -131   -119   -153   Tea                      2.1        2.2
All other c'mjdities 5.1         5.2
Interest paynments (net)                  4       9      7       3
labor incme                             -14    -16    -24    -31                1TXAL      96.7      100.0
Net trarsfers                            34      47     48      50
Balance w current accomt                -57   -:91  -88    -131
Direct foreign invetment                  -       1       1      2   EaIAL JE,  11(e4  31, 1982
Capital grants                           25      35      39     37
Net MU Borrvrg a/                        39      41      29     51
Dishbrsements                          42      45      32     54                                  US$MLn
Amwrtization                            3       4       3      3   RPblic Debt, inel. guaranteed  202.6
Other capital (net)                       -    -10      -6      -3  Nl-Guaranteed Private Debt 
Other items NEI                         -11       7     -5      11   lbtal cxtstarding & Disb.
Increase in net reserves (-)              4       6     32      34   1r SERwICE RATiO xR 1982 b/   z
Gross reserves (erd year)                86      90      72     42   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed     5.0
N    e-iaranteed Private Debt
Imports of petroleum products            13      25     32      30   Ibtal outstanding ard disb.
MI  1NEI  , September 30, 1983
(Mllion US Doars)
RA;E OF E SQANE: US$1. - FlBu9O since 1976                                                             IDA
Outstandirig & Disbursed       92.6
US$L = FBu90   1976-Noember 23, 1983                                  Unlisbursed                     83.6
Outstandirg including
US$1 = FBu117  November 23, 198-present                                 undisbursed                  176.2
a/ TRRD Oebt Reporting Systen.
bR Ratio of Debt Servli to EXPorts of Goods and Ibnfactor Services.
. bt available.



- 27 -              Annex II (Page 1 of 2)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Amount
Loan or                                                      US$million
Credit                                                   (leER cancellations)
Number      Year   Borrower       Purpose          Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and nine credits fully disbursed       4.8    43.04
731 BU      1978   Burundi    Development Bank    -        3.40       0.31
917 BU      1979   Burundi    Second Technical
Assistance        -       2.50      0.07
918 BU      1979   Burundi    Forestry              -      4.30       1.46
976 BU      1980   Burundi    Second Education    -       15.00       3.45
1049 BU     1980   Burundi    Urban Development   -       15.00        9.56
1058 BU     1980   Burundi    Telecommunications  -        7.70        4.52
1132 BU     1981   Burundi    Third Highway         -     25.00 4/   13.31 51
1154 BU     1981   Burundi    Nickel Exploration  -        4.00 4/    2.28 5/
1165 BU     1981   Burundi    Kirimiro Rural
Development       -      19.30 4/   15.43 5/
1192 BU     1981   Burundi    Integrated Rural
Dev./Ngozi III    -      16.00 4/   13.72 51
1230 BU     1982   Burundi    Local Construction
Industry          -       5.20 4/    4.20 5/
1358 BU 3/  1983   Burundi    Third Education       -     15.80 4/   15.32 5/
Total 6/                        4.8   176.24       83.63
Of which has been paid          4.8       .26
Total now held                  0.0   175.98
Total undisbursed               0.0    83.63



- 28 -                     Annex II (Page 2 of 2)
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of September 30, 1983)
Type of                  Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor            Business                 Loan    Equity    Total
1981     Verreries du       Glass container
Burundi                                    4.8       0.8       5.6
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations, repayments
And sales                                          4.8      0.8        5.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                    4.8      0.8        5.6
Total undisbursed                                    1.1      0.1        1.2
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the lake
port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
_/ Not yet effective.
W1 US$ amounts equivalent computed at the rate of the approval dates.
5/ US$ amounts equivalent computed at the September 30, 1983 rate.
6/ This does not include a credit of US$15.0 million to Burundi provided
under the Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric power project benefitting
Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire (approved by the Board on May 6, 1983).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
BURUNDI
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                 During Supervision of the Second
Technical Assistance Project
(b)  Preparation:                    During Supervision of the Second
Technical Assistance Project
{e)  Appraisal Mission:              January-February 1983
{d)  Post-Appraisal Mission:          September 1983
Ce)  Negotiations:                   1iarch 1984
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1984
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a)  The six-monthly programs of studies to be financed by the project
development and evaluation component would be submitted to the
Association in September and April, during preparation and review of
the investment budget (para. 49);
(b)  The Government would provide qualLfied staff in adequate number and
with appropriate prior training for projects activities in the
Ministry of Planning, SNES, and DGPA (para. 60);
Cc)  The Ministry of Planning would open a project account with the Bank of
the Republic of Burundi to finance local expenditures incurred by the
project; funds equivalent to US$ 113,000 equivalent would be deposited
by the Government in this account on January 1 and July 1 of each
year, ending on July 1, 1986; the initial deposit would be made on
June 1, 1984 and would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
(para. 59); and
(d)  Yearly work programs, specifying the respective tasks and expected
contributions of expatriate and national staff and time-tables for the
completion of planned activities, would be prepared by the expatriate
advisers for approval by their Burundian supervisors and reviewed by
the Association (para. 61).



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX IV
Terms of Reference for Long-Ternm Experts
A.   Planning Ministry
1.   Project Monitoring Expert
This expert would be a systems analyst, with training in accounting.
He would have the following responsibilites:
-   to analyze the existing project monitoring system with a view to
strengthening it;
-   to work out standard forms in cooperation with the sectoral
specialists of the Planning Ministry, the "fonctionnaires
dirigeants" (leading project officers) of the technical
ministries, and the project chiefs. These forms would be used for
the preparation of annual programs and their quarterly
monitoring. The annual programs would specify the activities to be
undertaken during the year, their estimated cost, sources of
financing, and quarterly estimates of expenditure commitments. The
quarterly monitoring reports would follow the same format and
compare programmed goals and actual achievements;
-   to propose procedures for systematic inclusioh in the terms of
reference for feasibility studies of the following assignment:
preparation of project descriptions and cost estimates to
correspond to the headings of the standard forms;
-   to select the projects for which this system would be first
adopted, and to set up the forms system for these projects;
-   to work in close collaboration with DGPA, where a comparable
system would be set up and to have the Center for Industrial
Development (Centre de Promotion Industrielle, CPI) participate in
implementation of the system;
-   to work up a system for obtaining from donors a quarterly record
of disbursements for the projects they finance.
- to link establishment of the project monitoring system with
project selection and investment programming.
An individual consultant would be recruited for this position.



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
B. SNES
2. Agricultural Statistician
Over the project period, the agricultural statistician vould
undertake the following tasks:
-   complete field work for the agricultural survey in the Bubanza
province;
-   publish survey results for Bubanza, Muramvya, and Bururi;
-   prepare a synthesis of available results covering 5 of the B
former provinces (59 percent of the country's total area and 65
percent of its population) to update agricultural statistics;
-   confront the results thus obtained with information available at
the Agronomical Institute (ISABU) and DGPA;
-   continue the program of surveys by extending it to other
provinces. A preliminary review of existing statistical
information would help program the order in which the surveys
would be conducted;
-   follow-up on sample farms surveyed in 1980-81 in the Ngozi and
Gitega provinces. This should help obtain information on the
evolution, over three years, of farm systems, yields, livestock,
and coffee plantations;
-   conduct a preliminary study of non-farm activities in rural areas,
and prepare a household consumption survey;
-   assist SNES in improving its information processing capabiliti9s
(in collaboration with the national accounts division); and
-   implement and follow-up on introduction of a regular countrywide
survey system.
C. DGPA
3. Management Specialist
The expert would be a certified public accountant capable of
providing management advice. The adviser's main tasks would be:
-   to propose uniform accounting and management systems for
agr cultural projects and regional development companies (SRD's)
along similar lines to the work of the project monitoring expert
in the Planning Ministry;
-   to assist in setting up such systems in a selected number of
projects and to study the feasibility of using microcomputers;



- 32 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
-   to study the establishment of a financial control and monitoring
function in DGPA;
-   to provide advice on problems specific to individual projects of
SRD's (economic and financial diagnosis, preparation of balance
sheets, forward budgets, or financing plans, organizational
development);
-   to coordinate training in management and accounting of project and
SRD's directors.
This expert would work in close collaboration with the project monitoring
adviser in the Planning Ministry.
4. Agricultural Economist (Monitoring and Evaluation Division)
The expert would be an agricultural economist with previous
experience as an agricultural project manager in a developing country.
He should also have some background in agricultural statistics. His main
responsibilities would be:
-   to contribute to setting up a monitoring system (in collaboration
with the management expert in DGPA and the project monitoring
expert in the Planning Ministry). This system would be based on
yearly programs broken down by discrete activities with
individualized costs;
-   to devise a battery of indicat;rs to provide an aggregate view of
projects' progress and to update them on a quarterly basis;
-   to select, propose, and implement a suitable monitoring
methodology;
-   to propose suitable remedies for problem projects, including
identification, when necessary, of specialized technical
assistance to be financed under Part A of the project;
-   to conduct yearly in-depth evaluations of selected projects;
-   to participate (together with other IDA-financed experts in DGPA)
in the conception and preparation of seminars on the project cycle
(identification, appraisal, monitoring) for DGPA staff to be led
by professional trainers.
The expert would work with three (or four) national staff: one
agronomist and two (or three) economists. National staff would be
responsible for individualized tasks identified in the expert's yearly work
program.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
5. Agricultural Economist (Studies and Program Division)
T'he expert would be an agricultural economist familiar with
various project appraisal methodologies. His main tasks vould be:
-   to advise on sub-sectoral policies and to continue coordinating
these matters with the Rural Division of the Planning Ministry;
-   to advise on the definition of criteria to identify and to select
projects in accordance with stated sectoral policies;
-   to help conduct feasibility studies of new projects when they are
conducted by DGPA; or to help prepare terms of reference for
studies to be financed under Part A of the project;
-   to help conduct ex-post evaluations of completed projects to be
used in defining sub-sector policies and in identifying and
selecting new projects; and
-   to help prepare seminars for DGPA and project staff on the project
cycle, to be given by professional trainers.
National staff assigned to the Studies and Programs Division (onel or
two economists and two sector specialists) would be given specific
responsibilities identified in the expert's yearly work program.
The agricultural statistician in SNES, and the three DGPA advisers
(one management specialist and two agricultural economists) would be
provided by a consulting firm.
D. Documentation Center
6.       Documentalist.   (Terms of referpnce to be defined before March
31, 1985).
r.



- 34 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
BURUNDI
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of Training Program
(on the job training excluded)
A. SNES
- Seminar for Agricultural Surveyors (2 six-day seminars per year
training 100 people each, over three years);
- Two one-year fellowships abroad in computer science;
- Training period abroad for three months for three staff members of
the National Accounts Division;
B. DGPA
- Two seminar cycles on project and SRD's management for agricultural
projects, SRD's, and DGPA personnel (20 persons per seminar cycle
led by professional trainers and prepared by DGPA long-term
advisers).
- Two seminar cycles on project work (sector planning,
identification, appraisal, monitoring, evaluation) for DGPA and
agricultural projects and DGPA personnel (20 persons per seminar
cycle, led by professional tralners and prepared by long-term
advisers in DGPA).
EDI assistance (training materials, topics to cover, course content
and organization) would be sought in preparing training activities,
especially those related to seminars on the project cycle.



- 35 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of I
Estimated Costs by Project Component
Percent
of
Total
Base
Item                                        Local   Foreign   Total    Costs
A. Ministry of Planning                        770    2,010    2,780      53.4
of which: Sector and Feasibility Studies
and Specialized Consultants       650    1,660    2,310
Project Monitoring Adviser          70      290       360
Equipment                           10       30        40
Vehicles                            20        30       50
Staff Travel                        20      --         20
B. SNES                                        130      450       580     11.1
of which: Agricultural Statistician            70      q5
Equipment                           10       60        70
Vehicles                            30        60       90
Training                            20       40        60
C. DGPA                                        395    1,140    1,535      29.5
o3fwhitch: Long-term Advisers                TUM    *nu    T708
Equipment                           10       40        50
Vehicles                            70        90      160
Documentation                       10       10        20
Training                            50       140      190
Staff Travel                        35      --         35
D. Documentation Center                         85      225       310      6.0
of which: Construction                         45       85       130
Equipment                           20       60        80
Documentalist                       20        80      100
E. Total Base Costs                          1,370    3,835    5,205    100.0
R. Contingencies                               160      300       465
of which: Price                              T45       280       i2
Physical                            15       20        35
I. Total Project Costs, net of taxes1       1,530    4,135    5,665
1/   Taxes included in the project are negligible, as all items would be
exempt of import duties and local taxes.



IBRD 171 G4
BURUNDI .lR I? 13
POPULATION DENSITY, 1979                             R         W           A                     DN         A
DENSITE DE POPLJLA TN, 1979  
P I!SN pi S  K14   f& NY r    NE                                               i c-_ N                                         ,
I--I.:  *::  '                        crls M.ANIS                                         I      ' ' P     W.'
MAIN l'OADS                           .                         a    /
%015Rtot   I>t                                   IA< <58t           S@ 
IWJIES      A\~   iIN
5,',UNIJOUNDKKSI,rt                                          10
S  i~~~~~~~-  FlONIfl i,5N~fS S,CIS4                           y          X          ,v =4,
PIOVIWJIAL EOJNOAss       I    Lf 
*  4.    I                        - .   *~~~~~~~~~~~NIEENATIONAL SUDRS
''0  t" .;,'''  ' <             /  H-:\NtA\A;~'~ t4 ,*-,; - z
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-tr
(riA.|                                                       A gi, -- 
X, .I.     ex
N   ,   \,   .  ! 5,,_,-g              '          <                        t        '    *      w    4 a111 -u         |NWA 
w  sg           _     ft }       .       -      ?c                    o         2rd'iO    " IE
fly I' diw.au
ubanza A                                                        'wE - - -,
I I                         .,   _ ds; ' 
1   ..                             PPldToullbll_all                 i  >~~~41      )r
r        *       UMOZA     E _ 5. r Ai
I____K                                                                                                 Z
rio                               -3T          .     LTebic-_                                                                 Z@' ZD-3zr 3,><, 1 
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Dr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 






