Report No. PID1029
Project Name                      Trinidad and Tobago-Basic Education (@)
Project
Region                            Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                            Primary Education
Project ID                        TTPE35312
Borrower(s)                       Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Education
Address Alexandria Street, St. Clair,
Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
Contact Person: Ms. Hazel Manning,
Minister
Phone: (868) 622-5265
Fax: (868) 622-3635
Project Coordinating Unit
Address: 86 Frederick Street, Port-of-
Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
Contact Person: Mr.   Terry Mohomed,
Project Coordinator
Tel: (868) 624-2807
Fax: (868) 627-2019
Email: epcu@wow.net
Environment Category              C (Not required)
Date PID Prepared                 October 26, 1995
Appraisal Date                    May 15, 1995
Board Date                        November 16, 1995
1. Country and Sector Background
Country Overview: Trinidad and Tobago is a dual-island country
in the Caribbean with a population of approximately 1.3 million,
growing at 19 a year.   The islands' combined relatively small
size of 5,128 square kilometers makes it a densely populated
country. Its inhabitants are primarily of African, East Indian
and mixed decent. The economy prior to independence (1962) was
sustained by sugar exports, while petroleum became increasingly
more important after independence. GNP per capita rose to
almost $7000 during the early 1980s due to the continued rise in
oil prices since 1974. Growth contracted after the price of oil
declined and GNP per capita fell swiftly, standing at about
$3700 in 1994. Unemployment has consistently remained a
problem, never falling below 10w; it now stands at 16.5w.
Cuts in public recurrent expenditure and investment followed the
fall in oil prices and in government revenue. Social services
such as public housing, education and training, health, and
welfare programs were the most affected. Amid the economic
decline, poverty increased. In 1981, only 3.5w of households



were living in poverty; by 1988, this figure increased to 15%.
Some 22.5% of household incomes were below the poverty line
(around US$116/month) in 1992. The Government's mission has been
to promote sustainable economic growth and enhance the quality
and efficiency of public social services. Recently, prudent
fiscal and monetary policies, including reform programs in
trade, tax, price controls, and foreign exchange transactions
have resulted in resumption of economic growth. In 1994,
positive growth was recorded for the first time in the last
decade as GDP grew by 4 percent.
Education sector: The basic education structure in Trinidad and
Tobago comprises: (i) two years of early childhood care and
education (ECCE) for about 40% (23,500) of the 3-4 age cohort;
(ii) seven years of universal schooling, two Infant and five
Standard levels, for the 5-11 age cohort (about 200,000
children); (iii) two post-primary grades (for children not
gaining access to a secondary school); and (iv) five secondary
grades. Secondary education enrolls about 98,000 students and is
divided in two sectors. The Traditional Sector schools offer
only an academic track of five secondary (Form-level) grades,
followed by two additional pre-university ("A" level) grades.
The New Sector, initiated in 1972 to expand access, offers
courses in both academic and technical vocational subjects. The
New Sector comprises the junior secondary schools, the senior
secondary, senior comprehensive and composite schools.
School governance and finance are either government, government-
assisted or private. Assisted schools are owned by
nongovernmental bodies (predominantly churches); financially
aided by the Government; and administered jointly by the MOE and
the respective Denominational Church Boards. Government pays
salaries and personnel benefits of all teachers in government
and assisted schools, and 75% capital costs for assisted primary
schools, 66 2/3% for assisted secondary schools and 100% for
government schools. Private schools are self-financed. In
1993, the government, assisted, and private schools,
respectively, enrolled 30%, 67% and 3% of students in primary
education and 77%, 18% and 4% in secondary schools.
2. Objectives
(i) enhance the cognitive and social development of children in
ECCE to prepare them to enter primary education; (ii) improve
the quality of teaching and student achievement in primary
education; (iii) improve the physical infrastructure of
facilities for ECCE and primary and secondary education; and
(iv) strengthen the management and institutional capabilities of
the education sector at all levels. At the primary school
level, the project seeks to improve effective leadership,
teaching and assessment methods, coaching among teachers, and
local flexibility and autonomy.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
-2-



The project conforms to the World Bank Group Country Assistance
Strategy (March 30, 1995), which supports Trinidad and Tobago in
resuming its economic growth and providing a strong human and
capital base for sustainable development. The project directly
supports this strategy emphasizing the need to increase and
effectively and efficiently utilize investments in human
resources. Bank involvement coincides with the Government's
demonstrated commitment and ownership of its social programs, in
particular education. The Ministry of Education's clear
intentions are to reduce disparities in the education system,
enhance the quality of education, and achieve an effective and
efficient management of the sector. The Bank's involvement
through this project will revitalize capital investments in the
education sector, which were drastically reduced during the last
decade, catalyze economic growth, and assist in developing a
solid human resource base for sustainable development. Increased
access to quality education would contribute to a more equitable
income distribution.
4. Description
The project comprises four principal components: ECCE Quality
and Access (US$8.59 million), Primary Level Teaching and
Learning Quality (US$18.21 million), Upgrading the Physical
Environment for Teaching and Learning (US$81 million), and
Education Management and Institutional Strengthening (US$13.90
million).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                         71
IBRD                             51
Total Project Cost               122
6. Implementation
Project implementation will be carried out within the existing
organizational structure of the MOE supported by a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) of mostly MOE staff Other education
stakeholders -- to include the NTFE, the ECCE National Council
(NCECCE), local NGOS, parent-teacher associations, communities,
and schools --would participate in the implementation of the
project, which will increase project impact and reduce direct
management responsibilities of the MOE. The MOE appointed a PCU
coordinator; established an Inter-Divisional Project Management
Team; and formed various project planning committees with
representation from important stakeholders. The PCU coordinator
will report to the Permanent Secretary and will collaborate with
the Inter-Divisional Team and planning committees to consolidate
annual work plans, coordinate activities among participating
agencies, provide administrative backup services, carry out
project monitoring and evaluation, and provide this information
annually for Bank reviews.
7. Sustainability
-3-



The effect of the proposed project on total educational
expenditures and the ability of the Government to finance and
sustain the resulting increase in recurrent costs was carefully
discussed with the Government during appraisal. Budget line
items that may need adjustments would be monitored during
project implementation to ensure inclusion of funds to the MOE
budget to cover project generated recurrent costs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
(1) Bank-Wide Education Projects: Several relevant lessons from
past operations were applied to the design of this project: (a)
Strong economic performance of countries that have risen from
low-income levels has been linked to strong, sustained spending
on basic education; (b) Desired changes to strengthen the
performance of basic education must start at the school level-
teachers, parents and the community must lead the reform
process; (c) The capacity to manage change effectively and
flexibly must be institutionalized at all levels in the
education system; (d) Significant educational change demands
long-term, stable political support; (e) Program initiatives and
interventions should be multi-faceted and inter-related; and,
(f) While building and maintaining commitment, three
interventions are critical in education investments:
administrative development, in-service teacher training and
classroom level processes.
(2) Prior World Bank-Funded Education Projects in Trinidad and
Tobago: Several relevant lessons from three prior projects in
the country were applied to the design of this project: (a)
Project success requires full commitment of the GORTT supported
by appropriate policies; (b) Long-term assessment of financial
sustainability and management capacity are key to project
success; (c) Executing agencies should strongly seek
stakeholders' participation through information sharing and
close collaboration; and, (d) Private sector participation
enhances quality and efficiency.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The project does not present environmental risks other than the
relatively minor ones associated with school construction and
maintenance activities. These will be addressed in the design
and approval stage of investment subprojects. Moreover, the
project would help improve the environmental status of school
facilities by requiring that school renovations and
constructions make adequate provision for water, sanitation, and
drainage.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager: Alberto Rodriguez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-4-



Washington D.C.20433
Telephone: 202-45-87821, Fax: 202-522-0050
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454, Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
-5-



