Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3956-TR
                               Loan Agreement
                          (Basic Education Project)
                                   between
                       REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated March 7, 1996
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3956-TR
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
                    "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Decentralization and Institutional Development
Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which
establishes: (i) criteria for the selection of action plans to
be carried out under Part D.2 of the Project; and (ii) all the
operational aspects concerning the execution of such plans;
      (b)   "ECCE" means the early childhood care and education
services for children from three to four years of age, provided
in accordance with the Borrower's program therefor;
      (c)   "ECCE Program" means the program established pursuant
to the Borrower's cabinet decision No. 626, dated March 28,
1991, and which is carried out by non-governmental
organizations, to: (i) manage the operation of ECCE centers;
and (ii) administer the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of ECCE centers; such program shall include the
procedures for the procurement of goods and works under Part
A.2 and A.4 of the Project;
      (d)   "MOE" means the Borrower's ministry of education;
      (e)   "Parental Outreach Program" means the program
established pursuant to the Borrower's cabinet decision No.
2688, dated September 28, 1995, and which is carried out by
non-governmental organizations to work with parents in the
development of healthy child care practices;
      (f)   "Primary Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's territory for the first to the
seventh grades of schooling;
      (g)   "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit
established in MOE and referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the
Project;
      (h)   "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, which establishes: (i) the
responsibilities of the different departments and agencies of
the Borrower with respect to the implementation of the Project;
(ii) all the operational aspects of the execution of the
Project, including: (A) those concerning the ECCE Program and
the Parental Outreach Program;  and (B) a program for the
construction,  rehabilitation and maintenance of ECCE centers
and school facilities for Primary Education and Secondary
Education; (iii) a Project implementation schedule; and (iv)
the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the Project;
Page  3
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to the letter of agreement, signed by the Bank and the
Borrower on August 2, 1994, and January 31, 1995, respectively;
      (j)    "Secondary Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's territory for the eighth to the
twelfth grades of schooling;
      (k)   "School-Based Management Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, which establishes: (i) criteria for
the eligibility of the activities to be carried out under Part
D.4 of the Project; and (ii) all the operational aspects
concerning the execution of the plans to be carried out under
Part D.4 (b) of the Project, including the procedures for the
procurement of goods and works thereunder; and
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifty one million Dollars
($51,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
Page  4
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                    ending on the date immediately preceding each
                    date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                    in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                    after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                    or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                    to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                    loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                    1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                    otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                    this Section.
           (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or
                    the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                    "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                    "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                    "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, environmental,
educational and pedagogical practices, and in accordance with
the Project Implementation Manual, the Decentralization and
Institutional Development Manual and the School-Based
Management Manual and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
Page  5
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall allocate each year in its annual
budget the amounts required for counterpart funding, as
provided in the annual budget referred to in Section 3.04 (c)
of this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain: (i) policies to achieve the objectives of
the Project; and (ii) procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual,
the carrying out of the Project;
      (b)   furnish to the Bank, during the month of June of each
year until the completion of the Project, beginning in 1996, a
report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the twelve calendar months preceding the date of
said report pursuant to the monitoring and evaluation
indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; said
report to be of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request. As part of the report to be delivered
during the month of June of 1999, the Borrower shall also
prepare and include, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, data integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project since the initiation of the execution of the
Project;
      (c)   in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b)
above, also recommend the measures deemed necessary to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, including a budget, an investment plan
and the targets to be achieved for the implementation of the
Project during the succeeding calendar year; and
      (d)   review with the Bank, by not later than July 31 of
each year until the completion of the Project, beginning in
1996, the corresponding report furnished according to paragraph
(b) above, and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory to
the Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
      Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain within MOE, until the report referred to in
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions has been prepared,
the Project Coordination Unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank which shall include,
inter alia: (i) coordination of the implementation of the
Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (iii)
Page  6
preparation of the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement, and the reports referred to in Sections 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement and 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions; (iv)
processing of documentation required under the Project for the
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services, and for
the disbursement of Loan proceeds; (v) administration of the
program referred to in Part D.4 of the Project in accordance
with the School-Based Management Manual; and
      (b)   ensure that the Project Coordination Unit is at all
times staffed with at least seven full-time professionals with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, and
assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
Page  7
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Bank has received
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that:
      (a)   the Borrower has adopted: (i) the Project
Implementation Manual, the Decentralization and Institutional
Development Manual and the School-Based Management Manual; and
(ii) accounting, filing and financial monitoring systems that
are acceptable to the Bank;
      (b)   the Project Coordination Unit has hired an
administrator for this unit with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank; and
      (c)   the Borrower has contracted consultants' services to
assist: (i) the Project Coordination Unit in managing and
supervising the civil works to be carried out under the
Project; and (ii) the Borrower in carrying out Part D.1 of the
Project.
      Section 5.02. The date June 5, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Eric Williams Plaza
            Port-of-Spain
            Trinidad and Tobago
                                           Telex:
                                           22450
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
Page  8
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
                         By /s/ Brian Kuei Tung
                                                  Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                            Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                 Dollar              to be
      Category                 Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Subprojects
      under:
      (a) Parts A.2, A.4
      and A.6 of the Project    1,400,000        90%
      (b) Part D.2 of
      the Project               2,000,000        90%
      (c) Part D.4 (b)
      of the Project            7,500,000        90%
(2)   Goods                    11,000,000        100% of foreign
      (other than for                            expenditures;
      Parts A.2, A.4,                            100% of local
      A.6, D.2 and D.4 (b)                       expenditures (ex-
      of the Project)                            factory cost) and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)   Works                   18,700,000         50%
      (other than for
      Parts A.2, A.4,
      A.6, D.2 and D.4 (b)
      of the Project
(4)   Consultants'            5,700,000          100%
      services and
Page  9
      training
(5)   Salaries and             1,400,000         100% until dis-
      operating costs                            bursements under
                                                 this Category
                                                 shall have reached
                                                 an aggregate
                                                 amount equivalent
                                                 to $400,000; 80%
                                                 until disburse-
                                                 ments under this
                                                 Category shall
                                                 have reached an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 equivalent to
                                                 $600,000; and 40%
                                                 thereafter
(6)   Unallocated              3,300,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   51,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "training" includes, inter alia: (i) all the
necessary activities and acquisitions of equipment and
instructional materials for the training to be provided under
the Project; (ii) production of training materials; (iii)
rental of training facilities; (iv) transportation expenses of
trainees to the place where training is provided and
subsistence expenses for such trainees; (v) scholarships and
fellowships for training courses to be provided in the
Borrower's territory or abroad; and (vi) study tours in the
Borrower's territory or abroad;
      (d)   the term "salaries" means: (i) remunerations of staff
appointed to new posts of MOE created under the Project,
including staff of the Project Coordination Unit; and (ii)
subsidies to non-governmental organizations managing the ECCE
centers and the Parental Outreach Program for the payment of
new posts: (A) for instructors for the ECCE centers to be
constructed under Part A.4 of the Project; and (B) created
under Part A.6 of the Project; and
      (e)   the term "operating costs" means recurrent costs
associated with the implementation of the Project, such as: (i)
maintenance of: (A) office equipment, vehicles (including fuel,
repairs and spare parts) and (B) ECCE centers and school
facilities for Primary Education and Secondary Education; (ii)
insurance for equipment and vehicles procured under the
Project; (iii) office materials; and (iv) travel and per diem
expenditures for the staff of the Project Coordination Unit.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (a) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $500,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1995; (b) under
Category (1) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule unless such expenditures have been approved in
Page  10
accordance with the ECCE Program or the Parental Outreach
Program, as the case may be; (c) under Categories (1) (b) and
1 (c) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
unless such expenditures are made pursuant to a plan which has
been approved in accordance with the Decentralization and
Institutional Development Manual, in the case of Category (1)
(b), or the School-Based Management Manual, in the case of
Category (1) (c), as the case may be; and (d) for school
furniture (other than school furniture for the ECCE centers)
and for the design and supervision of civil works.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures: (a) for contracts for goods, works and
consultants' services costing less than the equivalent of: (i)
$250,000 in the case of goods and $3,000,000 in the case of
works (other than the first contracts for goods and works,
respectively, to be awarded each year during Project
implementation pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 of
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (ii) $50,000 in the
case of consulting firms' services; and (iii) $5,000 in the
case of individual consultants' services; and (b) made under
Categories (1) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) enhance the
cognitive and social development of children in ECCE to prepare
them to enter into Primary Education; (b) improve the quality
of teaching and student achievement in Primary Education; (c)
improve the physical infrastructure of facilities for ECCE,
Primary Education and Secondary Education; and (d) strengthen
the management and institutional capabilities of the Borrower's
education sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     ECCE
1.    Strengthening of: (a) the in-service training of ECCE
training institutions; and (b) the supervision activities of
field officers and regional facilitators of ECCE training
institutions, through, inter alia, the provision of technical
assistance and training therefor.
2.    Rehabilitation and provision of furniture, equipment and
instructional materials for existing ECCE centers.
3.    Strengthening of the management and monitoring capacity of
the Borrower's national council on ECCE, through the provision
of technical assistance, furniture and equipment therefor.
4.    Construction of new ECCE centers and provision of
furniture, equipment and instructional materials therefor.
5.     Provision of pre-service training scholarships for ECCE
teachers.
6.    Strengthening of the Parental Outreach Program through the
provision of technical assistance and training, and the
creation of approximately 25 new staff positions in such
program.
Part B:     Teaching and Learning Quality
1.    Design and implementation of: (a) a school-based training
program for principals and teachers of Primary Education; (b)
Page  11
a part-time university program in education; and (c) a pilot
program to teach the Spanish language in Primary Education.
2.    Provision of textbooks, library books, educational
materials, computers, software and audio-visual equipment for
Primary Education schools, teacher's colleges and the
Borrower's learning resource center.
3.    Provision of technical assistance for the production of
local educational materials.
Part C:     Physical Infrastructure Improvement
1.    Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of schools in
the Borrower's territory, including the provision of school
furniture and equipment therefor.
2.    Implementation of a pilot program to improve the cost-
effectiveness of the design, construction and utilization of
Secondary Education schools.
Part D:     Management and Institutional Strengthening
1.    Provision of technical assistance to reform and
decentralize the management activities of MOE.
2.    Preparation of the necessary action plans to implement the
recommendations of the technical assistance provided under Part
D.1 above in MOE's regional and central divisions and
implementation of such plans.
3.    Provision of technical assistance and equipment to develop
a computer-based test development and student tracking system
and implementation of such system.
4.    Establishment of a school-based management program to
support school principals, teachers and local communities to:
(a) diagnose the needs of their schools and design school
improvement plans therefor; and (b) implement such plans.
5.    Strengthening, through the provision of technical
assistance and training, of the capacity of the Project
Coordination Unit to administer, monitor and evaluate the
Project.
6.    Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
audit activities under the Project.
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                      (expressed in Dollars)*
      August 1, 1999                              1,385,000
      February 1, 2000                            1,435,000
      August 1, 2000                              1,485,000
      February 1, 2001                            1,535,000
      August 1, 2001                              1,590,000
      February 1, 2002                            1,645,000
      August 1, 2002                              1,705,000
      February 1, 2003                            1,765,000
      August 1, 2003                              1,830,000
      February 1, 2004                            1,895,000
      August 1, 2004                              1,960,000
      February 1, 2005                            2,030,000
Page  12
      August 1, 2005                              2,100,000
      February 1, 2006                            2,175,000
      August 1, 2006                              2,250,000
      February 1, 2007                            2,330,000
      August 1, 2007                              2,415,000
      February 1, 2008                            2,500,000
      August 1, 2008                              2,590,000
      February 1, 2009                            2,680,000
      August 1, 2009                              2,775,000
      February 1, 2010                            2,870,000
      August 1, 2010                              2,975,000
      February 1, 2011                            3,080,000
____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity
of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified
for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                    Premium
                                      The interest rate
                                      (expressed as a
                                      percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan on
                                      the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                         0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                           0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                         1.00
      maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
Page  13
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Two-stage bidding procedure
      The bidding procedure for textbooks shall be carried out
in two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.6 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more each.
      (c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Computer hardware and software estimated to cost $250,000
equivalent or more, per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.    National Competitive Bidding
      Library books estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more
but less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and $1,500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and  works estimated to
cost $250,000 equivalent or more but less than $3,000,000
equivalent per contract and $10,000,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
3.    International Shopping
      Goods (other than those under Parts A.2, A.4 and D.4 (b)
of the Project) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
per contract and $1,250,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    National Shopping
      Goods (other than those under Parts A.2, A.4 and D.4 (b)
of the Project) estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent
per contract and $2,750,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 per contract, and not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent
in the aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed
Page  14
description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to successfully complete the contract.
6.    Community Participation
      Goods and works required for: (a) Parts A.2 and A.4 of the
Project, estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent, per
contract and $1,500,000 or less in the aggregate, shall be
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank,
as provided in the ECCE Program; and (b) Part D.4 (b) of the
Project, estimated to cost less than $7,000 equivalent, per
contract and $7,500,000 or less in the aggregate, shall be
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank,
as provided in the School-Based Management Manual.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract: (a) to be awarded pursuant
to the provisions of Parts B.1 and C.1 of this Section; and (b)
the first contracts for goods and works, respectively, to be
awarded each calendar year during Project implementation
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $10,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
Page  15
such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $10,000 equivalent or more.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into bythe Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
Page  16
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  17
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
