                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26870

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (CPL-39560 SCL-3956A SCPD-3956S PPFB-P2440)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$51.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                       TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

                                                 FOR A

                                    BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




                                           December 29, 2003




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective October 2003)

                           Currency Unit = Trinidadian Dollar (TT $)
                                TT$ 1.00 = US$ 0.16
                                US$ 1.00 = TT$ 6.15

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 to  June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CEE                  Common Entrance Examination
DRE                  Division of Research and Evaluation
DSS                  Division of School Supervision
ECCE                 Early Childhood Care and Education
EPCU                 Education Project Coordinating Unit
GORTT                Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
IBRD                 Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
MOE                  Ministry of Education
MTR                  Mid-term Review
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NCECCE               National Council on Early Childhood Care and Education
NTFE                 National Task Force on Education
PCU                  Project Coordinating Unit
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SEA                  Secondary Entrance Exam
SIPs                 School Improvement Plans
SMG                  School-based Maintenance Grant Program
THA                  Tobago House of Assembly
TOT                  Training of Trainers
UWI                  University of the West Indies

                          Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                        Country Director      Caroline D. Anstey
                          Sector Director     Ana-Maria Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Alexis de Roquefeuil

                                TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
                              BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 39

Project ID: P035312                                                  Project Name: TT- BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Alexis De Roquefeuil                                    TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: TT- BASIC EDUCATION                                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-39560; SCL-3956A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3956S;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2440
   Country/Department: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (56%); General public administration sector
                            (25%); Secondary education (9%); Pre-primary education (7%);
                            Tertiary education (3%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (S);
                            Social analysis and monitoring (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/24/1994                                     Effective: 01/01/1996                11/27/1996
     Appraisal: 05/11/1995                                         MTR: 05/27/1999                  11/08/1999
      Approval: 11/16/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Trinidad and Tobago/Ministry of Education
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Julian Schweitzer
Sector Director:                Ana Maria Arriagada                            Yoshiaki Abe
Team Leader at ICR:             Alexis de Roquefeuil                           Joel E. Reyes
ICR Primary Author:             Alexis de Roquefeuil; Kathryn
                                Johns Swartz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Trinidad and Tobago Basic Education Project evolved out of the 1993­2003 Education Policy
Framework, carried out by the National Task Force on Education (NTFE), with strong support from the
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT).[1] The GORTT was aware that an
investment in human capital was required for faster economic growth and reduction of social inequities and
sought to improve the role of the education system in supplying a well-prepared labor force. In the
mid-1990s, the GORTT was concerned about the declines in the quality (overall achievement) and equity of
teaching and learning (differences in quality among schools and access to quality education among
socioeconomic groups).

The Basic Education Project (Loan 3956-TR), approved in November 1995, was intended to provide a
framework of support to the GORTT to enhance the quality of education, to reduce the disparity in the
education system and to achieve an effective and efficient management of the education sector. The main
objectives of the project were to:

(a) Enhance the cognitive and social development of children in preschool--Early Childhood Care and
    Education (ECCE) to prepare them to enter primary education;
(b) Improve the quality of teaching and student achievement in primary education;
(c) Improve the physical infrastructure of facilities for ECCE and primary and secondary education; and
(d) Strengthen the management and institutional capabilities of the education sector at all levels.

Assessment
The project objectives were consistent with the GORTT's policies on education and the World Bank
Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, March 1995). The project was designed to invest in the
foundation for future investments in human resources by addressing the quality of and access to preschool
and primary education.           The project was responsive to the needs in the basic education sector by
considering attention to infrastructure needs, quality enhancement, and institutional issues. However, the
project objectives may have been too wide-ranging and trying to address too many challenges at the same
time (improving the linkages across ECCE, primary and secondary levels and addressing the issues of
quality, access, and equity), which eventually had an impact on project implementation.

At the time, the GORTT demonstrated a commitment to and ownership of its social programs, particularly
education, which was a significant factor in project success as noted in the previous education loans. In
terms of basic education, the Government's strategy placed importance on: (a) preparing children for
primary schools; (b) providing quality education at the primary level and easing the transition from primary
to secondary school; and (c) improving public institutional capacity to accomplish these goals.

The project supported the CAS objective of helping Trinidad and Tobago resume its economic growth by
providing a strong human and capital base for sustainable development. The project contributed directly to
this objective by emphasizing the need to increase and effectively and efficiently utilize investments in
human resources. Bank financing would help revitalize capital investments in the education sector, which
were drastically reduced during the previous decade, catalyze economic growth, and assist in developing a
solid human resource base for sustainable development. Also, increased access to quality education would
contribute to a more equitable income distribution.

[1]
   The NTFE was created in 1991 as a permanent council to advise the Ministry of Education and its Council. The Task Force
consisted of leading educators from the University of the West Indies, local NGOS, the MOE, and regional and school staff.



                                                            - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
During the Mid-term Review (MTR), carried out in November 1999, the project objectives were confirmed,
but it was agreed that some project subcomponents would be revised to reflect the evolution of the
Government's strategic priorities and accelerate implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components financed with a US$51.0 million IBRD Loan and the GORTT
counterpart of US$70.7 million for a total cost of US$121.7 million.

Component A. ECCE Quality and Access (US$8.59 million; IBRD 3.75 million). The basic education
system in Trinidad and Tobago includes a two-year preschool program (Early Childhood Care and
Education--ECCE) for the 3­4 age cohort. This component would be implemented by the Ministry of
Education (MOE), under the auspices of the National Council for Early Childhood Care and Education
(NCECCE), an umbrella body for various ministries and agencies involved in the ECCE sector, to be
created under the project. Non-governmental organizations, churches, or private early childhood service
providers would be able to assist poor communities in submitting viable proposals for ECCE investments
and if approved, would sign a contract with the MOE to support the communities in the construction
program and in managing the ECCE centers.     [2]




This component would finance the following two subcomponents:

1) Upgrading Quality (US$2.46 million). This subcomponent would: (a) improve the in-service training of
ECCE training institutions and the supervision activities of field officers and regional facilitators of ECCE
training institutions through training of trainers (TOT) programs; (b) rehabilitate existing public ECCE
centers and provide furniture, equipment and instructional materials to bring them up to acceptable
operating standards; and (c) strengthen the management and monitoring capacity of the NCECCE by
providing technical assistance, furniture, equipment and staff costs (on a declining basis).

2) Improving Access (US$6.12 million). This subcomponent would increase access of the poorest children
to new ECCE centers by: (a) construction and equipment of about 50 new ECCE centers for about 2,250
children; (b) providing pre-service training scholarships for up to 350 prospective ECCE teachers, with
additional stipends for trainees from low-income communities; and (c) expanding the Parental Outreach
Program (workers assist parents at home to develop healthy childcare practices) managed by NGOs.

Component B. Primary Level Teaching and Learning Quality (US$18.21 million; IBRD US$15.0
million). This component would fund two inter-linked subcomponents to upgrade primary education
quality as below:

1) Classroom Instruction and Curriculum Strengthening (US$5.93 million). This subcomponent would
finance: (a) design and implementation of a school-based training program, focusing on improved
instructional and assessment methods for delivery of traditional subjects and for other areas such as art and
crafts, drama, and music, for principals and teachers of primary education; (b) a part-time university
in-service program (as part of the Bachelor in Education program, B.Ed.) to support the improvement of
teaching efficiency and relevance through curriculum adaptation, pedagogical methods improvement, and
the decentralization of learning aimed initiatives (with community participation); and (c) a pilot program to
teach the Spanish language in primary education.

2) Textbooks and Instructional Materials (US$12.28 million). This subcomponent would finance: (a) a



                                                     - 3 -

school-based loan scheme to make textbooks available to children of low income families; (b) provide
textbooks, library books, educational materials, computers, software and audio-visual equipment for
primary education schools and their libraries, teacher's colleges, and the MOE learning resources center;
and (c) technical assistance for the production of local educational materials.

Component C. Upgrading the Physical Environment for Teaching and Learning (US$81 million;
IBRD US$19.7 million). This component would seek to reduce serious overcrowding and lack of student
places through construction and expansion of primary schools in low-income neighborhoods, particularly
targeting fast-growing neighborhoods and disadvantaged communities through the following three
subcomponents:

1) Construction and Reconstruction (US$48.23 million).              This subcomponent would finance the
construction and equipment of 15 new primary schools to accommodate a total of 9,900 new students and
reconstruction and equipping of 15 dilapidated schools to benefit an additional 8,250 students.

2) School Extension and Renovation (US$11.0 million). This subcomponent would finance the extension
and renovation of 16 schools, with improved sanitation systems, furniture, and equipment, benefiting 6,145
students in existing buildings and 3,760 additional new students in extensions to existing schools.

3) Pilot Secondary School Construction (US$21.86 million). To lay the groundwork for access of primary
school graduates to the secondary level in selected parts of the country, this subcomponent would finance a
pilot program to improve the design, construction, and utilization of secondary education schools with: (a)
development of a cost-effective design for secondary schools; (b) the pilot construction of 3­4 secondary
schools with a capacity of 800 students each; and (c) the initial preparation and assessments needed for a
follow-up project at the secondary level.

Component D. Education Management and Institutional Strengthening (US$13.90 million; IBRD
US$12.55 million). This component would finance three subcomponents as below:

1) MOE Reform and Decentralization (US$4.24 million). This subcomponent would: (a) support the
reform and decentralization goals of the MOE while improving the managerial, monitoring, planning and
technical capacity of the MOE and its regional offices; (b) develop and implement viable action plans to
implement the recommended reform and decentralization strategy; (c) assist in improving central and
regional planning, management and team work skills; and (d) establish a Project Coordinating Unit.

2) Testing and Assessment Reform (US$1.16 million) This subcomponent would improve monitoring of
nationwide student achievement, and increase the analysis and planning capacity of the MOE Division of
Research and Evaluation (DRE). The project would assist the MOE to: (a) collect timely, relevant, and
diagnostic information on academic achievement of students in Standards 1, 3 and 5; (b) establish a
computer-based test development and student tracking system; and (c) prepare and implement a plan to
improve the assessment and monitoring capacity of the education sector, including the introduction of the
two additional national diagnostic tests at Standards 1 and 3.

3) School-Based Management Strengthening (US$8.5 million). This subcomponent would encourage and
assist principals, teachers and parents at the local level to diagnose their own schools and plan quality and
efficiency improvements through financing provided to approved School Improvement Plans (SIPs).
Educationally-at-risk and low-income schools, as identified through targeting mechanisms based on
educational performance and economic needs, would be provided with technical assistance to develop and
implement their school subprojects.


                                                      - 4 -

Assessment
The project design was linked to the objectives described above and addressed the most significant issues
facing the GORTT in terms of providing better opportunities for children as they enter the school system.
However, in order to address the multiple objectives, the project may have integrated too many
components, subcomponents, and activities, without carrying out a realistic assessment of the
Government's absorptive capacity. The MTR played an important role in working with Government to
simplify the project design and link component and actions together to create a more coherent and focused
objective.

The project included a School-based Management Strengthening Subcomponent with training and technical
assistance to support changes at the classroom level and promote school-community linkages. The focus at
the school-level, in addition to reforms at the central level, was seen to be key to strengthening the
performance of basic education with the active involvement and leadership of teachers, parents, and the
community. The component design was technically appropriate for addressing three issues perceived as
critical interventions: curriculum reform, pre-service and in-service teacher training, classroom level
processes, and school managers' empowerment.

The project components also complemented investments financed under an Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB)-financed initial primary education project, which included school libraries, a computer
provided to all Government schools, and construction of one primary school. The estimates of costs and
implementation plans for the construction of the primary schools for this project were based on the
IDB-financed construction.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the MTR, the four original components were maintained, but several subcomponents were revised
and the changes and reallocations formalized in an Amendment to the Loan Agreement dated February 10,
2000. At that time, slow disbursement was a significant issue since only about 20 percent of the loan had
been disbursed. The adjustments during the MTR reflected the lessons learned during the first three years
and were intended to simplify and accelerate project implementation. During the MTR, the GORTT
reiterated its commitment to the project objectives and its desire to continue implementation at the approved
loan amount. The revisions were not considered a major restructuring and were not reported to the
Executive Directors.

The revisions were designed to: (a) build on the success of key project components (quality improvement
through the SIPs); (b) adjust other activities to respond to new policy directions and implementation
realities (learning materials and civil works); and (c) discontinue those areas supported by other
Government or donor initiatives (MOE decentralization, evaluation and assessment). For all components,
the total allocations were adjusted according to the real cost experience of the first three years of
implementation (Please see Table 1).

[2] In 1988, the Government transferred administration of Government-assisted preschool/ECCE centers to
community-based NGOs. NGOs, through sub-contracting arrangements with the Government, can provide ECCE
teacher training, furniture, and equipment, teacher salaries, and administration support. The communities where
the preschool centers are located, are expected to establish a board of education to manage the schools and provide
for maintenance of the premises.




                                                        - 5 -

                      Table 1 ­ IBRD Financing Original and Revised by Component
        Components                                           Original   Revised    Difference
                                                              IBRD       IBRD        IBRD
                                                            Financing  Financing   Financing

       A. ECCE Quality and Access                              3.75      2.66         -1.09
       B. Primary Teaching and Learning Quality                15.0      5.73         -9.27
       C. Upgrading Physical Environment                       19.7      26.71       +7.01
       D. Education Mgmt./Institutional Strengthening         12.65      15.79       +3.14
        TOTAL                                                  51.0      51.0          --


The main revisions to the subcomponents are described below:

Component A. ECCE Quality and Access. Unchanged. The MTR recommended that this component
should strengthen its community outreach activity to support poor communities and promote their interest
in coming together and organizing themselves to be beneficiaries of ECCE interventions.

Component B. Primary Level Teaching and Learning Quality

1) Classroom Instruction and Curriculum Strengthening. Unchanged. The MTR recommended that
effective curriculum dissemination should depend on a solid school-level training system focused on
revising and upgrading actual classroom instruction. Emerging curricular standards should be aligned
with: (a) developments in national and school-level assessment systems; (b) future purchases of textbooks
and instructional materials; and (c) pre-service training efforts.

2) Textbooks and instructional materials. The procurement of school library books and instructional
materials at the central level was maintained, but these materials would now be eligible for purchase by
each school through a second round of the SIPs program. The MTR noted that securing full participation
of principals and a high quality, technically based and transparent textbook and instructional materials
selection process would continue to be the key to success of this subcomponent.

Component C. Upgrading the Physical Environment for Teaching and Learning.
Establishment of a school-based system for school maintenance. A School-based Maintenance Grant
Program (SMG) was introduced to finance a direct transfer to schools so they could autonomously
undertake any needed minor repairs to physical facilities. The subcomponent would finance: (a) a physical
facilities survey to assess current needs and produce an asset inventory; (b) the systematization of the
above-mentioned inventory; (c) the design of an effective yet simple mechanism to guide principals in the
decision-making process that would lead to the use of the grant; (d) the financial transfer to each school;
and (e) the evaluation, monitoring, and auditing of the use of the grants. Every public primary school
would benefit from this program.

Component D. Education Management and Institutional Strengthening
1) MOE Reform and Decentralization and (2) Testing and Assessment Reform. Eliminated. Financing
for both of these subcomponents was reallocated since the MOE reform activities were being financed
through core Ministry resources and a new IDB-financed Secondary Education Modernization Project.




                                                     - 6 -

3) School-based Management Strengthening. For the second half of the project, the initial round of SIPs
would be significantly expanded to cover all remaining primary schools. In addition, to reinforce the
process of school-level strategic planning and resource management, a second round of SIPs would be
implemented in all the primary schools that successfully completed round one. During round two, special
emphasis would be placed on providing schools with the opportunity to select and purchase library books
and instructional materials. The transfer to each school in Round 1 remained limited to TT$90,000, and in
Round 2, the transfer to each school was limited to TT$60,000. The MTR recommended that a SIP should
continue to have an exclusively pedagogic focus and its activities must directly support improvements in
teaching practice and learning materials. The SIPs would not include investments in facilities, which would
be supported through newly-created School-based Maintenance Grants (SMG) (see Component C).

4) Project Administration. The amount of resources allocated to project administration was increased to
strengthen the monitoring and evaluation function of the Education Project Coordinating Unit (EPCU),
which was originally part of the MOE Reform and Decentralization Subcomponent.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The project design was based on a technical
analysis, the involvement of stakeholders and beneficiaries, and it was consistent with the GORTT strategy
in the education sector and the Bank's CAS.           The project incorporated lessons learned from other
Bank-financed education projects and three education loans to Trinidad and Tobago prior to 1980. The
project appropriately identified the main risks and included actions to mitigate these risks. Nonetheless, as
described below, there were some weaknesses that became apparent during implementation in both the
approach and appropriateness of the design to the situation in the education sector in Trinidad and Tobago
and in the assessment of the institutional capacity of the MOE to undertake such a large and comprehensive
project.

Decentralization. The MOE Reform and Decentralization Subcomponent was designed to change the
overall organizational culture of the education sector (both institutions and individuals) through improved
efficiency and strong decentralization. Early in implementation, it became clear that the apparent GORTT
consensus on decentralization and its capacity to fully implement the attempted reforms had been
overestimated as no clear policy priority emerged on the need to strengthen the management role of the
Regional Education Offices in such a small territory. Prior to disbursement for the decentralization plans,
the Government was supposed to "...provide evidence acceptable to the Bank that the decentralization
analysis has been conducted, its recommendations are viable, and a master implementation plan has been
prepared" (SAR and Loan Agreement), which could not be fully implemented by the MOE in terms
acceptable to the Bank during the entire project life.

Stakeholder/Beneficiary Participation. Project preparation was informed by a series of participatory
workshops and focus groups involving education stakeholders and it included a beneficiary-centered
monitoring system that was based on the logical framework methodology used in the stakeholder
workshops. During preparation, there was close collaboration among executing agencies (MOE, regional
districts, NGOs, the University of the West Indies-UWI) and stakeholders, which improved institutional
and professional linkages among actors in the education sector.

The ECCE Component anticipated extensive community participation during implementation, which
proved to be overly ambitious. The communities were required "...to provide an extensive financial or
cash contribution, and to fully participate to the management of the Centers" (Implementation Manual).
While the financial contribution was lacking for obvious reasons, the poorest communities also experienced
significant difficulties in managing the centers, particularly in the construction and procurement aspects.



                                                      - 7 -

This is one of the factors leading to the unsatisfactory implementation of the ECCE Component in targeted
communities.

It should be noted that negotiations did not initially involve the Tobago House of Assembly (THA)
regarding the actions on that island. At the start of implementation, the THA stated that no school
construction or ECCE center rehabilitation could be operated outside of its Education Plan since education
is a sovereign domain of the Tobago Island. Legally, although Tobago could not be a signatory of the
Loan Agreement, the representatives of the THA could have been included or consulted during the project
preparation phase as observers or as stakeholders. This issue stalled actions until an arrangement was
reached during the MTR whereby the THA allowed the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), merged with the IDB-financed Secondary Modernization Program. In fact, the PIU staff financed
by the IDB implemented the World Bank-financed program in Tobago until completion.

Monitoring and Evaluation. The monitoring indicators provided only generic or analytical evidence of
progress and therefore, implementation progress was difficult to follow during implementation. At the
MTR, it was necessary to introduce a quantitative set of threshold indicators to allow for more consistent
and systematic monitoring.

Demographic Assessment. The project planned for an increase in the number of pupils in primary schools
from 200,000 to 209,900 during 1995­2003. However, the number actually dropped to 147,000 in 2003,
as a consequence of a sharp decline in the birth rate, which intervened earlier. Preparation did not fully
assess the impact of demographic changes on the planned activities.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory. Most of the target outcomes confirmed
during the MTR were achieved, except for in the ECCE Quality and Access Component. The project
improved access to preschool, primary, and secondary education and enhanced the quality of teaching,
although testing and examination data are lacking in order to evaluate the effects on learning achievements.
The project successfully increased community involvement in schools through the School Improvement and
the School-based Maintenance Grant Programs. Both of these programs are seen as building blocks of the
GORTT's current decentralization policy in the education sector.

The project was a program of targeted interventions and the poverty alleviation objective was partially
achieved. The MOE developed specific mechanisms to target project inputs for the educational needs of
children of the lowest-income groups of the population, but performance was uneven. The main outcomes
are below:

Enhance the cognitive and social development of children in preschool (ECCE). During the first four
years of implementation, this component financed the creation of new ECCE facilities and in-service and
pre-service teacher training. The National Council on Early Childhood Care and Education (NCECCE)
was established and operating in 1997. The expected achievements of this objective were limited however,
when the Government initiated a policy revision exercise of this program with attention to quality issues
and the effectiveness of poverty targeting, and then, halted all new construction in 2001. For this reason,
the MOE did not endorse the final tendering of 19 new ECCE centers to be built in 2002. At the
end-of-project, only 57 out of the targeted 100 ECCE centers were constructed or refurbished and the
number of new ECCE places for children in poor communities increased by only 1,150, falling short by
1,100 places to meet the end-of-project target of 6,750 (Please see Table 2 below).



                                                     - 8 -

   Table 2 - ECCE Impact Indicators
   Impact Indicators                   Baseline       Project Target (2003)         Actual End-of-Project
   # new ECCE places for                 4,500                6,750                        5,650
   children in poor communities      (37.5 % net)           (55% net)
   # of students in primary             200,000              209,900                      147,359
   schools                             (96% net)
        Ministry of Education, Education Planning Division and Education Project Coordination Unit, October
   2003.

Of the 57 new ECCE centers, 25 are located in low-income communities. There were several concerns
raised during implementation that the ECCE centers did not benefit the poorest communities. According to
the GORTT and the NCECCE, the requirements of the program including land tenure, community financial
contribution for the construction of new schools, and for teachers salaries, were not consistent with
attaining the program objective of targeting the poorest communities. An updated poverty map is not
available to assess to what extent ECCE centers built by the project were in the country's poorest areas.
The Government plans to conduct a needs assessment to better identify the poor communities and to
provide land to construct the centers in these communities.

A systemic measurement of behavioral and cognitive achievements was not available when the ICR was
prepared. A critical part of the impact evaluation will be the third phase of the longitudinal early childhood
study, currently being carried out (previous studies were carried out in 1995 and 1999). In September
2003, the firm completed a systematic training of 18 ECCE teachers to collect data samples at 60 centers
on teacher time management, activities, achievements survey, and parent interviews. The data are currently
being processed and the final evaluation report will be available in the spring of 2004. A preliminary
indicator from the MOE shows that in 1999, the time in the classroom in which children are not actively
engaged had increased from the baseline of 22 percent to 24 percent (negative effect, as the target was 12
percent) (Please see Table 3 below). This indicator is being updated through the current evaluation.

Table 3 - ECCE Impact Indicator
 Impact Indicator          Baseline       MTR        Project         Comments
                           (1995) %     (1999) %     Target
                                                    (2003) %
 % of time in                 22           24           12       As measured by
 classroom in which                                              the quality baseline
 children are not                                                study for ECCE
 actively engaged                                                sponsored by the
                                                                 Bank.
    High Scope Educational Research Foundation, July 2000.

The Government is currently planning a new strategy to expand the ECCE program to achieve universal
coverage and specifically target poorest communities. The results from the evaluation currently in process
should provide useful information on the coverage of poverty areas and under-enrollment because of lack of
parental involvement or financial resources, which will help provide a useful basis for the development of
this new comprehensive program.

Improve the quality of teaching and student achievement in primary education. Most of the threshold
indicators were met under this component. Six curricular areas were reformed (five were piloted), teachers
were trained in these areas, and 474 teachers and principals completed the B.Ed. in Education at the UWI.
Library materials and textbooks were purchased and distributed and low-income students received



                                                    - 9 -

textbooks through the project (in the first phase about 53,000 benefited and in the second phase about
56,600 students benefited). The textbooks are owned by the schools and lent at no charge to low-income
children. However, critical indicators are missing to accurately assess the impact of the project on the
quality of teaching and learning achievements in the primary education sector, for the following reasons:

a) Testing. The project had planned to assist the MOE to collect timely diagnostic information on
academic achievements of students in standards 1, 3, and 5 to build a comprehensive database of
continuous attainment through the Testing and Assessment Subcomponent. There was no progress and this
subcomponent was eliminated during the MTR, which has made it impossible to measure the quality of
teaching and student achievement. The National Test system, designed from curriculum objectives and
conducted annually on Language Arts (English) and Mathematics, measured knowledge and skills that
students were expected to have acquired each academic year in standards one to four, produced results until
2001. Since 2001, the classroom-based tests were no longer centrally collected, processed and analyzed.
The Division of Educational Research and Evaluation should produce a new collection of National Test
data in 2004.

b) Standard Examination. The Common Entrance Examination (CEE) (at the end of primary school) was
replaced by the Secondary Entrance Examination (SEA) in 2001. Student learning achievement could not
be consistently compared during the project since the methodology and objectives of these examination
systems radically differed in the following ways: (i) the CEE utilized a knowledge-oriented multiple choice
format and the SEA utilizes a skills and analysis oriented open-end format; (ii) the CEE was aimed at
assisting with student selection at the end of primary school, while the SEA was introduced for promoting
universal access from primary to secondary and directing all students to secondary schools best suited to
their skills; and (iii) during 1995 (baseline indicator) to 2003, there was a 25 percentage point drop in the
percent of children scoring below 40 percent of the maximum score in English in the Standard 5 CEE,
actually better than the expected target. In Mathematics, the portion of students with significant learning
difficulties also dropped significantly from 40 to 25 percent, which supports achievements of the objective
(Please see Table 4 below). However, it is not possible to assess if this available figure shows a reduction
of the learning achievements gap in these two subjects or only reflects the change in examination
methodology.

   Table 4 - Impact Indicators
   Impact Indicators                           Baseline %      Project Target %     Actual End-of-Project
                                                                                             %
   Percent of children age 11 or more              40                 25                    25.6
   scoring below 40 percent of the
   maximum score in Math-CEE
   Percent of children age 11 or more              52                 30                     27
   scoring below 40 percent of the
   maximum score in English-CEE


c) Curriculum Coverage. The SEA includes three subjects (Mathematics, Language Arts and Essay) and
two CEE subjects were dropped (Science and Social Science). Thus, achievements in these two curriculum
areas reformed by the project are no longer examined at national level. In the other curriculum reformed
areas, both systematic testing and examination results are not available to measure the impact of the new
syllabi, teacher training, updated pedagogy or additional learning resources provided through the project.

Improve the physical infrastructure of facilities for primary and secondary education. The project had
a significant impact on improving school environment quality and modernizing school facilities (report by



                                                     - 10 -

construction management firm). School services were significantly upgraded (libraries, computer rooms,
sport facilities, concert halls etc). New schools are already fully occupied and refurbished schools were
well received by communities. There was a growth in school places in secondary education and some
primary schools that were overcrowded have perceived a significant relief. However, the actual number of
primary school students decreased since there was an overall decrease in the primary school population.
Three high quality secondary schools were built by the project, including one on Tobago Island (one less
than planned since there was some overlap when the IDB-financed Secondary Education Modernization
Program became effective in 1999 and included the construction of 20 new secondary schools). As shown
by an assessment questionnaire completed by the principals of the new or renovated schools, the design and
construction of most of the primary and secondary schools financed under the project is considered of
exemplary quality by the end users. Also, school quality is in conformity with international practices in
school construction standards (construction management firm and observed in ICR mission).

Strengthen the management and institutional capabilities of the education sector at all levels. This
objective produced important outcomes in terms of local flexibility and autonomy at the school level. All of
the primary schools have an approved SIP, exceeding the forecast of 70 percent at the end-of-project and
more than 30 percent received a second round grant. SIPs have had an impressive impact on communities'
interest in education and are demonstrating that schools can successfully plan and implement projects. A
systematic evaluation of the main achievements, which the Government will be carrying out in order to
institutionalize the SIP program, was not yet available at the time of the ICR mission. However, through
its monitoring mechanisms, the EPCU has found that the SIPs have had a significant impact on most of the
schools. New roles were defined for principals, teachers, and empowerment has been noticed. Parental
involvement in the planning, design, and management of the projects has reached unprecedented levels and
stronger links were forged with the communities on teaching and learning programs and school
administration. Another significant impact of the program is the financing of projects of a similar nature
by the schools and communities (in addition to or without project assistance). The SIPs also supported the
curriculum reform efforts of the teachers in school-selected subject areas.

The School-based Maintenance Grant program (SMG), introduced at the MTR, was completed and has
received high praise from principals. This program has further encouraged the decentralization effort
supported by the project. The Government is committed to continue and expand the SIP and SMG
programs even after the end of this project.

Regarding MOE reform and decentralization and testing and assessment reform objectives, there was less
progress because of a delay in high-level policy decisions and at the MTR, Government informed the Bank
that there was other financing for these activities.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. ECCE Quality and Access. Unsatisfactory. When implementation progress slowed in
2000, the Bank team assisted the MOE in addressing technical recommendations by organizing a
systematic mid-term review study on the ECCE Component.               At that time, there were about 19
communities (including five in Tobago) that were ready to move forward with new centers. The tendering
process for construction of these centers was successfully completed, but in September 2001, the MOE
decided to cancel the process (furniture for these centers, which had already been purchased by the EPCU,
was re-distributed to already existing ECCE centers).

The Government position was that these remaining ECCE centers were not in the lowest income populated
areas and the MOE was also concerned about the quality of the construction design. ECCE center
construction, renovation, and equipping did not always meet international safety and quality standards



                                                    - 11 -

because MOE architects underestimated the budget at the onset of the project and as a result of high
inflation affecting construction costs throughout project implementation. The MOE and NCECCE were
particularly concerned about structural integrity in case of natural disaster like a landslide. Also, facilities
were often considered to be too small for a full qualitative implementation of the curriculum or for
providing all care services. At the time, the budget ceiling for the construction of the ECCE centers
established by the GORTT Cabinet (US$60,000) was too low to ensure that safety standards and building
requirements would be followed in the construction stage. This ceiling was later increased to US$100,000.
By end-of-project, only 25 ECCE centers were built and furnished in poor communities, half of the original
target; and 32 were expanded or refurbished, about two-thirds of the original target (Please see Table 5
below).

School board and community management. Eligibility criteria for the ECCE program included land
ownership (initially established by the Government) and community financial contribution for the
construction and management of the schools, which were not consistent with the objective of targeting the
lowest-income communities. Some school boards also felt that the original design did not support their
activities and curriculum delivery.      Some sites selected by the community proved unsuitable for
construction.   The inability of some `community contractors' to effectively manage the construction
projects resulted in extended construction time. Many school boards proved to be uncommitted to the
management of the construction phase and later repair and maintenance (EPCU, October 2003).

   Table 5 - Implementation Indicators
    Selected Implementation      Project           Actual                      Comments
    Indicators                   Target       End-of-Project
                                 (2003)
    # of ECCE Centers built        50                25         Further construction or improvements
    and furnished                                               were halted pending a policy revision
                                                                exercise.
    # of ECCE Centers              50                32
    expanded and
    refurbished


ECCE teacher development. The in-service and pre-service training targets were not met because of the
reduction in the number of new ECCE centers. At end-of-project, 25 trainers, 9 facilitators, and 25 Parent
Outreach Workers (POW) were selected, placed and trained to provide in-service training to the teachers
(slightly above the project target of 55). The POWs also trained parents in childcare practices. Only 350
early childhood education teachers were pre-service trained for positions in the ECCE centers (55 percent
of the target of 650) including 120 ECCE teachers from private schools. The project organized a training
workshop for all ECCE teachers (1,398) in October 2002.

Pre-service training was provided by the implementing NGO providing support to private ECCE center
management, and the School of Continuing Studies of the UWI. The NCECCE ensured coordination of a
common teacher training syllabus. However, coordination between the Government and the NGO on salary
policies was not always smooth.       Turnover among teachers is relatively high since salaries are not
competitive enough to retain the best teachers.       For each departing teacher, new training had to be
organized. Some communities from the poorest areas (generally supported by churches) complained that
they will not be in a position to sustain the payment of teachers' additional incentives, since tuition fees
paid by the poorest parents are low.

By 2003, it was clear that Government preferred to roll any existing commitments to communities into a



                                                    - 12 -

new ECCE policy, which would focus on universal access and target poverty alleviation. The program is
expected to be re-launched by Government, conserving the key elements as supported under this loan. The
MOE is also committed to promoting technically sound design and construction standards in order to guide
the process of ECCE centers development and service management in accordance with international
standards. The Government has prepared draft standards following extensive consultation with various
stakeholders and has initiated a discussion with the Bank about technical assistance or a new loan to
support these efforts.

Component B. Primary Level Teaching and Learning Quality. Satisfactory. This component had an
important impact on the quality of classroom instruction. Six curriculum subject areas were efficiently
adapted to students' demands, needs, and environment, following modern pedagogical standards, and five
of these were piloted in schools. The project has financed and organized the large-scale distribution of
textbooks, with specific targeting of low-income children.

Classroom Instruction and Curriculum Strengthening Subcomponent

Bachelor in Education (Education Administration) training program. The MOE invited applications
from principals, deputies and senior teachers who were interested in pursuing the B.Ed. While all school
principals were admitted, the UWI had to submit to the MOE a list of teachers satisfying entry
requirements for the program (those teachers later being considered for promotion to principal positions).
Initially, the selection process for teacher training had to be carefully monitored by the MOE to ensure that
younger teachers were benefiting from these programs rather than teachers near retirement age.

According to the MOE, the performance of the two-year training program provided by the St. Augustine
Faculty of Education at the UWI, an internationally recognized institution, was highly satisfactory (the
UWI is also currently undertaking an overall evaluation of the program). About 474 school directors and
senior teachers participated in the two-year B.Ed. course. In 1999, the first cohort completed the training
with a 97 percent pass rate (30 with first class honors). The program focused on strengthening the role of
principals as instructional leaders in school management. The program was part-time (one day a week
during the school term and selected periods during school vacations) and was described by participants as
rigorous and challenging. Successful completion of the program enhanced administrative and managerial
knowledge and skills and improved promotional potential.            The program contents and structure, as
presented to the ICR team, are of high quality.

Curriculum Reform. Five primary school subject area curricula were reformed and piloted: Language
Arts, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and Spanish Language, and a sixth, the Visual and Performing
Arts curricula was reformed, but not yet piloted. New innovative syllabi were developed, together with
performance standards and indicators, for all primary grades.

In the six subject areas, the project organized a systematic in-depth reform process of the curricula. Teams
of international and local consultants (recruited by the project) trained selected teams of Trinidad and
Tobago educators to review the existing syllabi and draft the new syllabi. As part of the pilot, curriculum
officers, school supervisors, principals, and senior teachers were trained in the methods and procedures
required for effective implementation of the revised curricula and production of relevant instructional
material at central (textbooks) and school-level (didactic tools). This served as a model of the training of
trainers (TOT) for principals and senior teachers in all primary schools. The new curriculum was then
piloted in selected primary schools before being modified and extended to all primary schools. The
approach for each subject area is detailed below:




                                                      - 13 -

    l Language Arts--completed in August 1997. The new approach reflected contemporary thinking
        about the nature and purpose of language, the processes involved in language learning and the
        pedagogical implications. The new syllabus also promoted the use of Creole, as a vernacular
        second language, and Caribbean artistic language expression.

    l Mathematics--completed in March 1998. A new mathematics syllabus was prepared, focusing on
        innovative learning strategies including: student centered hands-on activities, integration of the
        socio-cultural context, and learner experience and teachers' pedagogical innovation.

    l Science--completed in September 2001. The revised curriculum methodologies were designed to
        strengthen the skills used by students such as, creative problem solving, critical thinking,
        teamwork, and the use of technology.

    l Social Studies--completed in September 2002. This curriculum seeks to transform the culture of
        the classroom to active learning methods. It enables the students, through a multidisciplinary
        approach, to find out and discuss what is going on the world (family, school, local community,
        country, world). It assists the child to understand how to resolve conflicts, the culture and values
        of their own society and of others, and develop a sense of pride in their own history and culture.

    l Spanish Language--completed in June 2002.              In 1999, the MOE and EPCU contracted the
        services of a language school to assist in new curriculum development and teacher training
        activities in standards 4 and 5. The pilot program was launched in September 1999 in 23 primary
        schools and evaluated in 2002. The pilot revealed a low to moderate level of language proficiency
        among primary school teachers, which is a concern for a full curriculum implementation at the
        classroom level.

    l Visual and Performing Arts (Aesthetics). The curriculum was reformed and will soon be piloted.
        The new syllabus seeks to enhance awareness and appreciation through the use of artistic
        techniques and to develop a means to incorporate them into teaching modules however, until the
        curriculum reform is fully implemented at school level, the aesthetic arts will continue play a
        relatively small part in the primary school curriculum given the emphasis on subjects in the
        national level testing.

Teaching and Learning Quality: Training of Trainers. After the reformed curricula were piloted in a
number of primary schools, full implementation was facilitated by a series of regional training of trainers
(TOT) workshops for principals and selected teachers in all Education Districts. The EPCU and the
Curriculum Unit of the MOE organized the logistical arrangements and the coordination of the workshops.
The workshop participants then organized school-based training workshops either at individual schools or
for groups of schools. In addition to implementing the new curricula, the TOT cascading training program
was aimed at scaling up a peer learning dynamic among schools and teachers.

Except for the Spanish Language curriculum, no systematic evaluation was carried out on the impact of the
curricular training organized by the project. Officials from the MOE Curriculum Division recognize
however, that the training workshops and TOT approaches had limited success in implementing teacher
training and teacher guidance at all schools due to the following constraints: (a) time availability and lack
of incentives to ensure full commitment of trainees after the workshop; (b) lack of motivation among
teachers or availability to attend the training; and (c) absence of curriculum facilitators in some Education
Districts. It was also noted that the local consultants in charge of training the District Curriculum



                                                     - 14 -

facilitators were contracted for too short a period of time to perform their duties in a satisfactory manner.
In the Science subject area, no budget was assigned for scientific teaching instruments and the workshops
were found to be too theoretical.

However, during the ICR mission, it was observed that some teachers and principals speak positively about
the training delivered through the workshops and the TOT approach implementation. In some cases,
subject-area teachers groups among peer schools were formed, which periodically discuss pedagogical tools
and provide support to junior teachers. In addition, the SIPs provided pedagogical resources to implement
selected curriculum reform projects, planned and managed by the school community.

Textbook and Instructional Material Subcomponent. The textbook selection process carried out by the
Textbook Selection Committee was initially slow and school principals were insufficiently involved.
However, by the end of 1999, 221,300 textbooks in Math, Science, and Language Arts were purchased and
distributed (of these, 53,000 were targeted to low-income children). During the MTR, it was agreed that a
second round of textbook purchase would be made, but there were some specific recommendations about
the selection process used by the Textbook Committee and the inclusion of school principals in the final
selection. Again, there were delays until 2002 when the MOE presented its new strategy for textbooks for
2002­2003.      In agreement with the Bank, the MOE identified those textbooks that were previously
purchased through the loan, which were repurchased from the same supplier. About 113,200 textbooks in
Mathematics and Reading were purchased and the Bank financed the books for approximately 56,600
low-income students (35 percent of student body). Under a new GORTT policy decision, the MOE
provided more than 600,000 textbooks for all primary school children. At the start of the 2002 school
year, the project was financing 25 percent of all textbooks distributed to all primary pupils, as part of the
Government's new policy of universal free distribution of school textbooks. The MTR also reviewed the
distribution of school library books and instructional materials and included an option for each school to
purchase these items through the second round of the SIP program. At the end of project, library books
were distributed to 476 schools.

Table 6 below summarizes the outputs achieved by the Project at completion.

Table 6 - Implementation Indicators
Selected            Implementation    Project         Actual      Comments
Indicators                            Target      End-of-Project
                                      (2003)
# of school directors trained or in    450             474        A two-year program.
training in a B.Ed

# of schools that selected library     476             476
books and were provided with
them
                                         5               5
# of curricular areas with reformed
and piloted curriculum                                            The MOE provided more than
                                      75,000         round 1:     600,000 textbooks for all primary
# of poor students that have                          53,000      school children in Trinidad and
received textbooks                                   round 2:     Tobago
                                                      56,600


Component C. Upgrading the Physical Environment for Teaching and Learning. Satisfactory.
Primary and secondary school facilities were substantially improved and expanded through new



                                                    - 15 -

construction and rehabilitation.     Initially, the MOE produced a priority list of fifty schools to be
constructed or renovated, based on an evaluation of the existing schools and a demographic study carried
out by the Ministry's Planning Unit, to determine where new schools were required or the population of
existing schools was expected to increase. Teams consisting of architects, civil and service engineers and
quantity surveyors carried out the design work and the schools were divided into packages based on
location, type and size. During the MTR, the deliverables for new primary school construction were
reduced according to the repair and construction priorities of the MOE, and also to address some incipient
concerns about implementation capacity and uncertainty about the demographic need for these new schools.
Special attention was given to the availability of suitable sites and budgetary constraints (especially with
regard to difficult sites).   The design of the final package of schools commenced in 2002 and was
completed by November 2003.

In total, 25 primary schools were constructed or remodeled and three pilot secondary schools were
constructed (Please see Table 7 below). A private construction firm was contracted by the MOE to provide
project management advice and support to the EPCU for the civil works component, initially for a
three-year period and later (after a six months hiatus) for a three-year renewal. Overall, the civil works
proceeded on schedule and were well managed by the EPCU and the construction management firm.

Table 7 - Implementation Indicators
Selected Implementation Indicators               Project Target       Actual End-of-Project
                                                    (2003)
# of new and reconstructed primary schools             23                     23
built

# of remodeled and refurbished primary                 3                       2
schools

# of new secondary schools built                      3-4                      3


A survey of school principals, carried out by the Education Planning Division in the MOE, shows a high
degree of satisfaction on most facility construction including: site entry, building entrance, principal's
office, staff room, toilets, classrooms, science rooms, libraries, assembly areas, cafeteria, storeroom,
courtyard, water storage, cleaners rooms, security, grounds, parking, site drainage, fencing. However,
some principals noted that the schools were lacking adequate garbage disposal facilities and that additional
equipment is still needed for the science rooms and computer rooms, and air conditioning is lacking in the
labs.

The introduction of the School-based Maintenance Grant Program (SMG) during the MTR (a direct grant
transfer to schools) was successful in implementing minor repairs in school facilities by decentralizing
decision-making to the local schools. The successful experience of the SIPs program (see below) helped to
fast track the SMG program. The target of disbursing School Maintenance Grants to all primary schools
was achieved (477 schools), and field visits and interviews with principals and teachers indicate that the
SMGs have had a positive impact on school facilities, management, and efficiency. Similar to the SIPs
program, monitoring the use of these grants proved most challenging for the schools and this required
additional attention by the EPCU. Based on the positive experience with the SMG program, Government
plans to continue this program and has prepared a draft proposal to institutionalize this program (together
with the SIP program).




                                                     - 16 -

Component D.          Education Management and Institutional Strengthening.                Satisfactory.   The
achievements at the local-level through the School-based Management Strengthening Subcomponent were
highly satisfactory based on the outstanding performance of the SIP program, but since the two
central-level institutional capacity strengthening subcomponents (MOE Reform and Decentralization and
Testing and Assessment Reform) as originally designed, had to be dropped at MTR, the overall rating for
this component is considered satisfactory.

School-based Management Strengthening Subcomponent. This subcomponent strengthened the local-level
school decentralization effort with the successful implementation and expansion of the SIP program. The
SIP program served as a strategic component in educational reform and was a key element in increasing the
autonomy, management capacity, and accountability of schools. This program, which started as a pilot in
10 schools in 1997, extended to all primary schools in the first phase (477 schools) and proved to be so
popular and effective, that at the MTR, the program was expanded and by the end of project, 164 schools
that had participated successfully in the first round, received second round grants. The implementation of a
limited and credible pilot of the SIP program to test the instruments proved invaluable for the successful
expansion of the program.

The SIPs Program included significant training and technical assistance provided by the EPCU and
consultants for the school staff and the local community (on school boards, school-based management,
technical and financial guidelines for all school principals) so that high-quality, participatory SIPs could be
developed and submitted for approval. There was an early delay while the mechanism for direct resource
transfers to the schools was designed (issuance of a Cabinet Memorandum in 1998). After many of the
first SIPs had been approved, there was still no agreement on the internal disbursement procedures in
Government (Ministry of Finance and Comptroller of Accounts). This was eventually resolved, but it does
illustrate the initial resistance and change in mindset that was needed to advance the decentralization
agenda.

During implementation of the SIPs grants, the issue of financial management and monitoring of the grants
proved to be challenging for the schools. The EPCU, MOE's internal auditors, School Supervision, and
the Auditor General were involved in oversight of the financial management and monitoring of the grants.
In 2001, the EPCU strengthened its capacity building program for the schools related to implementation of
the grant, not just preparation of the SIPs, and created some simple tools to facilitate monitoring of
expenditures by the schools. In one district, the principals developed a peer support program to assist each
other in the implementation of the SIPs. Based on the findings of an Internal Audit carried out in 2003, the
MOE will review and modify the accountability guidelines under the program and strengthen its monitoring
and oversight role.

According to the supervision missions' reports, the program has had a very positive impact, particularly in
the area of resource development, parent and community involvement, curricular reform, and teacher
professional development.       Based on discussions with teachers and parents, it is evident that their
involvement in SIP committees and decision-making was the most important factor in success--it gave
them a sense of ownership of the school and it positively affected the learning environment. Principals,
teachers, and parents all confirm their strong commitment to and engagement with the program. The
EPCU carried out a survey with a sample of 29 schools during April to June 2002 with SIP projects
underway and found that, although some schools did face several implementation challenges, the program
was overwhelmingly well received and successful. Government has expressed interest in furthering the
impact and sustainability of the SIPs program and has prepared a proposal to continue funding the program
at the end of the project.



                                                     - 17 -

MOE Reform and Decentralization Subcomponent. Progress and achievements for this subcomponent
were disappointing.      By mid-1999, Government had not provided an approved plan for the MOE
decentralization. The expected output of "a completely restructured and decentralized MOE" could not be
implemented. A World Bank-financed study in 1999 observed that a "mindset against decentralization
[existed] in the personnel of the MOE and in the population at large" (Alleyne, 1999). The activities
supporting the network of Regional Education Offices were never fully internalized by the Ministry since
there was no concensus on how to and whether to decentralize. Therefore, during the MTR, Government
and the Bank agreed that, in light of these significant delays in implementation, this subcomponent should
be reallocated.

Testing and Assessment Reform Subcomponent.            The implementation of this subcomponent suffered
significant delays from the very beginning. The testing and assessment program was never actually
developed by the MOE, even though a comprehensive report on the Reform of Assessment and Testing in
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago was produced in May 1997. One of the main problems that stalled
progress was the non-appointment of key ministerial positions such as, the Deputy Director and Testing
Officers in the Division of Educational Research and Evaluation.          Instead, a continuous assessment
program was advanced in 1999 and the results could not be formalized until 2001. During the MTR,
Government informed the Bank that the activities under this subcomponent would be financed through
other sources and given the expected further delays in policy decisions, the Bank funds were reallocated.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a result of the varied implementation performance of the Education Management and Institutional
Strengthening Component, the overall institutional development impact was modest.                 Institutional
development impact at the central level was minimal, but this was compensated for by substantial impact at
the local-level. Core institutional capacity was less than marginally increased by the project since the MOE
Reform and Testing and Assessment Reform Subcomponents were dropped at the MTR.

Decentralization and Reform.           The decentralization plan, proposed in the MOE Reform and
Decentralization Subcomponent, as originally conceived, may have been unworkable, but it is important to
note that the decentralization efforts continued under the IDB-financed Secondary Education Modernization
Program. In 2003, following the recommendations of an IDB-sponsored study, a Restructuring and
Decentralization Action Unit was established and fully staffed.           The Unit organized a National
Consultation Report on Restructuring and Decentralization of the Ministry of Education in July 2003.

School-based Management. The project had a substantial impact on local-level sustainability related to
school-based management. The implementation of this project improved the capacity of local schools to
develop their own SIPs and SMGs and execute the funds effectively. The project also had an impact on
curriculum development capacity and the textbook selection and evaluation policy. The `one book same
book' policy was abandoned in June 2002, following a MOE and Bank recommendation to allow for
multiple submissions by authors resulting in an improvement of the quality of textbooks and diversity of
pedagogic styles. The Textbook Evaluation Committee reformed its operations by providing a list of
recommended books, to be selected by principals, in consultation with teachers.




                                                    - 18 -

Testing and Assessment Reform. The National Test Report has not been formalized since 2001, although
the tests were continuously organized at the school level. The Research and Evaluation Unit of the MOE
will restart central test collection and reporting in 2004, based on 2003 school test performance collection.
The transition from the CEE to the SEA (after this subcomponent was dropped at MTR) contributed to
promoting a more equitable, skill oriented access to secondary schools, however, according to the MOE, it
was a disincentive to students' performance in Science and Social Science, the two subjects that were no
longer included in the SEA.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Land Availability. The lack of available land for the construction of ECCE centers in the poorest
neighborhoods, which are increasingly in mountainous areas subject to landslides, has affected the building
of ECCE centers in Trinidad.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
 Commitment to School-based Management. The Government consistently supported the initiatives
related to the SIPs and SMG programs and other agencies became involved when it was necessary.
However there were several issues that slowed implementation including: (a) insufficient personnel assigned
by the MOE to monitor the implementation of SIP and SMGs at the field level (this slowed SIP grant
approvals in the most remote areas, in particular in Tobago); and (b) a delay while the mechanism for the
direct transfers of resources to the schools was defined, which required a significant investment of time and
energy on the part of the MOE, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning and Development, and
the Attorney General, first to authorize the transfers and then determine internal procedures. Although
these decisions took time, the Government was always committed to the idea and eventually, all the
arrangements were agreed.

Counterpart Budget Allocations. Beginning in 1998, the construction schedule and tendering for some of
the planned civil works was delayed since the Government did not assign sufficient funds in the MOE's
budgetary provisions. The availability of resources was dependent on the allocations in the Public Sector
Investment Program and the budget uncertainty continued in 1999 and 2000. In 2001, there was some
concern about whether there would be sufficient funds to complete the project. At that time, the Minister of
Finance provided confirmation that every effort would be made to provide funding once assured of the
implementation capacity of the EPCU, and this problem was subsequently addressed.

Sector Policies. Project implementation was affected by the slow consensus on policy decisions in several
of the activities, specifically, the selection of textbooks, and the reform of MOE and the testing and
assessment. As mentioned above, the later two activities did not progress at all and were reallocated during
the MTR. The project was also subject to policy changes and adjustments by the Government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
EPCU Staffing. At times, the working relationship between the EPCU and the MOE was challenging.
The EPCU had six directors in seven years and by the middle of 2002, it was severely understaffed in terms
of technical staff (a breach of covenant 3.05 (b) of the Loan Agreement) and as a result, implementation
progress suffered. This problem festered until the end of the project and during supervision, as expected,
some motivation problems were detected among the remaining staff in the EPCU. The main difficulty
encountered by the EPCU when hiring professionals for specialized positions was that the level of
incentives proposed under the civil service status was not sufficiently attractive.




                                                      - 19 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$ 82.3 million of which IBRD financed US$47.9 million (US$ 3.1 million
was cancelled at the end of the project, representing a total disbursement of 94 percent) and the GORTT
provided US$ 34.4 million in counterpart financing (see Table below).             The project suffered slow
disbursement during the early years and in the last few years the result of bureaucratic problems in the
EPCU financial management unit and political changes and uncertainties in the staffing of the EPCU.
During the MTR, Government did not want to cancel any amount of the loan, and the Bank agreed to
change the cost share from only 50 percent IBRD financing to about 63 percent.

                                          Table 8 - Total Project Costs
   Source                          Planned Total Cost      MTR         Actual Total    % of Actual Total
                                       at Appraisal    Adjustment         Cost             Cost MTR
                                      (US$ million)     Total Cost    (US$ million)       Adjustment
   IBRD                                   51.0             51.0           47.9                 94
  GORTT (including                        71.7             27.4           34.4                125
  incremental recurrent costs,
  duties, and taxes)
   TOTAL                                  121.7            78.4           82.3                104



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the project achievements are likely to be maintained, particularly the school-based management
programs (SIPs and SMG) and the curriculum strengthening. The Government has established these
programs as recurrent expenditures in the annual budget.

The success of the school-based management activities served as a pull from the local-level to decentralize,
rather than a centralized push, which in the end, seems to have increased the likelihood of sustainability of
these programs.      The implementation success and the long-term sustainability of the school-based
management model is being further consolidated by: (a) provision of direct technical support by the MOE
with Bank support, and organization of stakeholders consultations; (b) full internalization by Government
of the policy effort required; and (c) the development of a stronger dialogue between parents and teachers in
communities through working on both school projects and local education institution management.

The sustainability of the curriculum reform results was strengthened at the school level by the
implementation of the SIPs. In many cases, the SIPs provided the needed finances for the purchase of
learning instruments and resources needed for the implementation of the revised curricula and the SIPs
helped to develop a dynamic by which parents and teachers planned for common pedagogical objectives.
Under the planned decentralization reform, the school supervisors in the eight Educational Districts will be
given additional duties, including the monitoring of SIPs and SMGs.

Project sustainability was encouraged from the beginning by including stakeholder participation, with
information campaigns, regular stakeholder and teachers workshops, direct financing of community
proposals, school SIPs, and decentralized procurement in subcomponents with NGO-community
participation. NGOs played a significant role in the management of ECCE activities and assisted in the
formulation of SIPs. The project also made efforts to ensure that the schools that were most in need had
appropriate support, through training, technical assistance, and special outreach, to increase likelihood that



                                                     - 20 -

they would benefit from and be able to absorb the project inputs. Also, the education supply capacity of
the private sector has been developed through the design, supervision, and construction of primary and
secondary schools.

Despite difficulties in the implementation of the ECCE component, the ECCE activities and the
methodology have had an input into making universal ECCE access one of the top priorities in the
Government's new agenda for education improvement and poverty reduction. The NCECCE, established
at the start of the project, is playing an active role in coordinating the Government and different stakeholder
activities in this area including, promoting a standard curriculum for teachers training and ensuring
standards in the operation of private and Government sponsored ECCE centers.

However, the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the MOE did not advance during the project
implementation. The evaluation of the project's impact on learning quality and teaching achievements for
the preparation of the ICR was hampered by the lack of assessment and standardized testing data.
Indicators on the achievements of curriculum training of trainers are also not available.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Decentralization. Although the central-level decentralization and testing activities were dropped during the
MTR, the Government did not abandon its commitments to these objectives and continued them under the
IDB-financed Secondary Education Modernization Program. This transfer of responsibility was fully
coordinated among the GORTT, the IDB, and the World Bank. Local-level school-based management is
now a key component of the MOE's education decentralization and institutional development practices.
The Government is currently undertaking an evaluation of the project, which will provide recommendations
on the modalities for the institutionalization of the SIP program; in particular, the monitoring role of the
school supervisors in the Education Districts is being strengthened.

Curriculum Reform. Four new curricula and syllabi have been introduced in all levels in the primary
schools and the teachers and principals are fully trained. The revised Spanish curriculum was piloted and
is being evaluated and the Visual and Performing Arts will be piloted. The Government has launched a
new policy of universal free distribution of school textbooks.

ECCE. The ECCE experience is being analyzed carefully as the Government is launching a new, larger
initiative to achieve universal access to ECCE by 2008 with the construction, equipping and staffing of
about 200 ECCE Centers. The GORTT is seeking World Bank technical assistance and possible financing
for this initiative. The GORTT has learned from this project and is committed to developing an innovative
approach aimed at fostering the role of the communities, the churches, students, unions and
Parent-Teachers Associations in the development, upgrading and management of ECCE Centers. The
MOE Ministerial leadership on this issue is effective and of high quality. The MOE and NCECCE
prepared a report on Standards for Regulating Early Childhood Services, which resulted from extensive
consultation with various stakeholders, and is under review by the Government Cabinet (December 2003).
In April 2001, 19 representatives of ECCE stakeholders participated in a workshop to discuss the status of
early childhood services, and to clarify systems and identify resources for monitoring and supporting ECCE
services.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the MOE during the identification and preparation phases and
implementation readiness was well advanced at the time of appraisal. The project was consistent with the


                                                        - 21 -

GORTT's objectives in the education sector at that time and the Bank's CAS. The SAR was based on
substantial analytical work and the Bank team involved in appraisal was staffed with specialists in
education, architecture, curriculum and instruction experts, and preschool specialists. Nonetheless, the
Bank's overall lending performance was affected by the apparent overestimation of the country's
institutional absorption capacity and policy commitments for undertaking an in-depth reform of the
education system. The SAR did however, appropriately recognize that not all the risks inherent in change
management projects could be completely controlled and the reforms would require a clear shift in the
organizational culture of all the institutions and individuals involved.

Project preparation included a series of focus groups and education stakeholder workshops, involving
teachers, principals, regional staff, and other education stakeholders in assessing needs and developing a
strategy and logical framework for project design. The incorporation of this participatory strategy and the
plans to continue strong beneficiary-centered monitoring during implementation were notable features of
project preparation.   However, the planned community participation in the ECCE component during
implementation proved to be overly ambitious.

The Bank team secured additional project preparation funds with a US$200,000 Japanese PHRD Grant
that supported the ECCE and the textbooks and instructional material surveys, and short-term support from
international and national experts to assist the MOE in the project design. Based on the lessons learned
from previous projects in Trinidad and Tobago, the Bank invested in analytical work to assess financial
sustainability and management capacity including: a sector study of education financing in the country,
issued as The Financing of Education in Trinidad and Tobago 1985-1993 (Bank Report 14628-TR); an
assessment of project recurrent costs implications for the MOE budget during and after implementation;
and development of recommendations on financial sustainability. A project preparation facility (PPF) in
the amount of US$300,000 was requested to assist the Government in the preparation of the project and in
establishing the EPCU.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank provided consistent and timely supervision with regular supervision missions every
six months (except for one visit in 2001 when supervision was held through email, phone and exchange of
reports) and a comprehensive MTR mission. The Project Status Reports (PSRs) were realistic and
informative. In its comments, the current Government recognized the Bank's support and commitment to
the project and the usefulness of the supervision missions, but it observed that the EPCU and the MOE
would have liked more time for interaction and problem-solving of implementation difficulties.

The Bank was responsive to Government's proposed restructuring during the MTR, which resulted in an
Amendment to the Loan Agreement. Technical support provided by the Bank to the MOE and to the
EPCU allowed for the revision of the project description at the MTR to allow for successful
accomplishment of the project and achievement of its objectives. As it was evident that the decentralization
agenda was not advancing, the Bank was proactive and was open to strengthening and expanding the
school-based management programs (SIPs and SMG), which were working very well and responding to the
demand of communities. The Bank's supervision team provided the needed skills and dedication to put the
project back on track, following a threshold indicators supervision methodology. The achievement or
nonachievement of the agreed thresholds for each component would trigger upgrading or downgrading of
the key ratings in the PSR.

The most critical issue throughout implementation was a significant disbursement lag. The Bank brought
this issue to Government's attention during every supervision mission. During the mission in mid-2001,
Government informed the Bank that it was not interested in canceling portions of the loan and expressed its



                                                      - 22 -

commitment to the project and executing the loan.

When there were concerns about the low counterpart budget allocations and the delay in policy decision
and the impact these issues had on project implementation, the Bank raised these issues with Government
appropriately. Just a year after effectiveness, the Bank raised some concerns about problems that were
affecting implementation and noted specific actions to be undertaken to address these issues. This up-front
acknowledgment of implementation problems, the identification of next steps and actions needed to
advance, and regular updating of the situation are clearly presented in the PSRs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.   The project preparation carried out by Government was comprehensive and based on
technical and financial analysis. Preparation also included the incorporation of a stakeholder participation
activity and close collaboration among the executing agencies (MOE, regional districts, NGOs) and
stakeholders. The project design reflected the priorities of Government at that time and incorporated
findings from several Government-financed studies and reports on the education system. However, as
noted previously, the design was over-programmed and Government may have misjudged its own capacity
and readiness for the changes that decentralization reforms required.

As evidenced in the SAR, the Government prepared most of the background documentation needed for the
civil works program prior to appraisal, including terms of reference, pre-qualification of architects and
engineers, and a general costing and an implementation schedule. All construction sites were selected and
cadastral and topographical surveys were completed for 90 percent of the sites. The MOE also carried out
detailed project implementation planning. The EPCU, with inputs from the MOE, also drafted operational
manuals for each main implementation activity containing standard terms of reference, draft contracts,
schedules, and budgets.

The Government showed a strong commitment to the project and established the EPCU early on in project
preparation and appointed experienced staff. In preparation for the first year of implementation, the
GORTT opened the respective line items in the MOE budget for allocation of IBRD funds and made initial
counterpart funds available.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. In the first year of implementation, the availability of counterpart funds ensured a timely
project launch. Government consistently expressed a commitment to the project objectives, but the project
experienced several setbacks that affected implementation performance including, delayed consensus on
policy decisions regarding MOE reform and the testing and assessment reforms, and the reduced
counterpart budget allocations in the Public Sector Investment Program beginning in 1998, which affected
the civil works component. Government's decision to halt all new commitments in the ECCE Program in
2001 also limited the achievements in this component. The project did introduce several significant
reforms, particularly in terms of the direct resource flow to local schools, and there was high-level support
from Government to establish the authority and mechanism for the funds transfers. These decisions were
time-consuming, but they were resolved satisfactorily.

As mentioned previously, the Tobago House of Assembly (THA), raised an issue regarding the
implementation of project activities on Tobago, which after some discussions among all parties, was



                                                    - 23 -

resolved through a Memorandum of Understanding with the THA.

The current Government is committed to implementing a new restructuring and decentralization strategy.
The MOE Strategic Plan 2002-2006 has identified key transformation strategies to reform the governance
structure and facilitate widespread community participation in the governance process.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The MOE adequately managed project implementation and achieved several significant
transformations in the basic education sector.           The reorientation of the original central-level
decentralization reform towards a local-level school-based management program was successfully
implemented by the MOE. The MOE and its EPCU provided strong support, training, and technical
assistance for the implementation of the school-based management component, the SMG program
introduced at the MTR, and the civil works component.

Overall, project administration was satisfactory. Beginning early on, however, the EPCU struggled with
administration difficulties and implementation delays, which were unexpected given the advancements
during preparation. There was high turnover of the Project Coordinators (six coordinators in seven years),
sometimes for clearly nontechnical reasons. At times, the EPCU was left without guidance on education
priorities and plans from the MOE. At the end of the project, there was severe understaffing of the because
of a lack of staff in key technical positions and the return of staff to the MOE, which was never resolved
satisfactorily. The working relationship between the EPCU and the MOE was strained at times, likely the
result of the perceived lack of integration between the EPCU and the Ministry's internal structure.
Nonetheless, until project completion, the EPCU coordinators provided competent and dedicated leadership
to the EPCU teams, even in difficult circumstances.

The financial management system of the project was satisfactory. The records and accounts of the EPCU
were audited in each fiscal year and the reports were submitted regularly to the Bank. While the financial
statements were satisfactorily prepared, the Audit Reports were often late, caused by delays in the Office of
the Auditor General. The project fiscal year coincides with the Government's fiscal year, which made it
difficult for the Office of the Auditor General to devote scarce resources to audit the EPCU in a timely
manner. Another related issue concerns the implementation of activities in Tobago overseen by the Tobago
House of Assembly, which were not subjected to the same audit of the project accounts, but only the
overall audit undertaken by the Auditor General of the THA accounts. During the ICR mission, the project
accounts and financial records in the EPCU were reviewed and were found to be well kept and satisfactory.


A procurement post-review carried out in 2002 showed that the Bank procedures were followed by the
EPCU, but there were some weaknesses related to consistency in procedures, the preparation of technical
specifications, coordination between the MOE and the Ministry of Finance-Central Tenders Board,
organization and maintenance of procurement files, contract management, and information on the scope of
works.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory, considering the achievements related to expanding
basic education access and introduction of school-based management, in an implementation environment
beset by delays, policy changes, administrative difficulties, and under-funding.




                                                    - 24 -

8. Lessons Learned

General Lessons:
Rigorous Assessment of Implementation Capacity and Appropriate Project Design. In this project, as
described previously, the project design was overly optimistic. As it became clear during implementation,
the MOE did not have the capacity to fully absorb and internalize all project activities and many activities
relied on the sole implementation performance of the EPCU. Future education projects should focus on
fewer core project objectives and be better adapted to the institutional short- and medium-term
implementation capacities. Strong coordination and division of roles should be established with the donor
community during preparation activities.

Capacity Building Support for Information Management, Planning, and Monitoring and Evaluation.
Deficiencies in the MOE information and education statistics systems represented a weakness for project
efficiency.  In this type of environment, projects should include financing of well-designed technical
assistance to strengthen a Ministry of Education's capacity on issues such as, student performance by
school and locality; the incidence, scale and nature of poverty and poverty mapping tools; education equity
analysis; and education sector and sub-sectors efficiency and productivity (learning tests, student
attendance and behavioral patterns). In parallel, planning and coordination capacity inside of the Ministry,
within Ministries, and among donors should also be strengthenedl. The monitoring and evaluation capacity
of the Ministry of Education should be strengthened, since, as detected in this project, this weakness can
have an impact on implementation and the final evaluation. When possible, the technical capacity to
establish and monitor quantitative indicators, and to provide feedback to policy decision makers with
regular information on project progress, should be in place prior to project launch.

Targeting Poor Communities. In the development of a community-based ECCE program, projects should
be mindful to ensure that the criteria for future selection of the ECCE centers will allow the poorest
communities to be more easily selected and to benefit from full public support. As noted in this project, the
implementation of the ECCE component was slow because poor communities in need of or interested in an
ECCE center invariably did not possess or could not acquire required land. In a country where there is
increasing scarcity of land, the resulting high prices makes long-term land planning of land acquisition by
the Government a necessity for the construction of additional ECCE centers in poor areas. Also, the state
should construct, furnish and handover the ECCE buildings to the school boards.               In future ECCE
development, the school boards should receive training in basic project management and supervision,
thereby allowing the poor communities to become empowered and more effectively manage the facilities.



Civil Works. Site selection, governed by physical characteristics of the proposed location for a school, is
crucial and sites should be chosen to maximize the use of the school. The selected sites should be free from
any encumbrances and time should be allowed for compulsory acquisition. Land surveys must be carried
out on selected sites to verify boundaries and ensure there are no encroachments by neighbors. As it was
learned in this project, a clearly defined hierarchy regarding the roles of the Ministry, the Project Managers,
the design consultant team, and the contractor is important. Contracts with design consultants should
include objective evaluation criteria and ensure accountability for cost overruns or time slippage. For
construction contracts, the design development and contractual obligations should be closely reviewed and
monitored on a continual basis to ensure that the needs and expectations of the Ministry are achieved.

Role of the Project Coordination Unit and Incentives.              Project design should consider the close



                                                      - 25 -

integration of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) into the Ministry's internal structure to help foster
effective communication and coordination and minimize the possible `politicization' of the PCU. Adequate
incentives should be offered to attract experienced professionals in the most technically challenging
positions (architects, curriculum and testing specialists, information experts), or to provide project-based
incentives for assignment to these particularly challenging positions in the public sector.

Assistance to Schools in Implementation and Monitoring of Resources. When there are direct transfers
to schools based on SIPs or SMGs, there is a need for continuous support to the schools on monitoring the
use of the grants, particularly on procurement methods. Financial audits, which were undertaken by the
EPCU with very limited personnel, should ideally be carried out by the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry,
and provide regular feedback to the SIP and SMG programs. The implementation capacity at the local
level should be strengthened to allow for closer supervision of the funds. Principals, school boards, and
communities at school level also need to be further empowered. In particular, a recurrent subvention on a
per student basis could be considered as a valid option, and additional requirements for the decentralized
use and accounting of funds should be established.

Lessons specific to future projects in Trinidad and Tobago:
Role of Central Tender Board. A disagreement emerged between the GORTT and the Bank since the
Bank does not consider the Central Tender Board as an adequate entity for operating tenders according to
Bank procedures.       This created implementation delays at different times and hampered project
disbursement. In order to avoid procurement delays, a clear and definitive understanding should be reached
between the GORTT and the Bank on the role of the Central Tender Board.

Financial Management. The project operated with reimbursements only, without a Special Account. The
project accounts performed in a satisfactory manner and the system operated in coordination with the
Ministry of Finance. Releases of funds made by the Ministry of Finance and checks to suppliers were
issued within two to three working days. Future projects should consider using the same account system.

Tobago Island. Greater attention should be paid to the particular decentralized status of the education
system of the Island of Tobago, in order to prevent legal and political difficulties that may arise during
project implementation. A representative of the Tobago House of Assembly (THA) should be involved in
the project appraisal and be present during negotiations to ensure its commitment to the proposed activities.
Geographic constraints should also be taken into account, such as providing teacher training on Tobago. In
addition, appropriate plans should be prepared in advance to ensure that project components implemented
in the Tobago House of Assembly are subject to the same accountability and auditing arrangements as the
components in Trinidad.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution is included in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A



                                                    - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Enhance cognitive and social development of An impact evaluation is currently in progress
children in ECCE                              and expected in spring 2004.

Indicator: % of time in classroom in which    Baseline indicator: 22%                    EOP information not available.
children are not actively engaged             Target EOP: 12%
                                                                                         1999: 24% (measured through the quality
                                                                                         baseline indicators for ECCE sponsored by
                                                                                         the Bank)
Improve quality of teaching and student       Baseline and target % is related to the
achievement in primary schools.               Common Entrance Examination (CEE),
                                              while the current % is related to the
                                              Secondary Entrance Assessment Exam
                                              (SEA) of 2002.

Indicator 1: % of children age 11+ scoring    Baseline indicator: 40%                    25.6 %
below 40% of the maximum score in Math -      Target EOP: 25%
CEE
Indicator 2: % of children age 11+ scoring    Baseline indicator 2: 52%                  27%
below 40% of the maximum score in English Target EOP: 30%
- CEE
Improve and expand physical infrastructure
of facilities for ECCE, primary and secondary
education
Indicator 1: # new ECCE places for children   Baseline 1: 4,500                          5,650
in poor communities                           Target EOP: 6,750

Indicator 2: # of students in primary schools Baseline 2: 200,000                        47,359
                                              Target EOP: 209,900
Indicator 3: # of students in secondary school
                                              Baseline 3: 98,000 (75% net)               111,749
                                              Target EOP: 100,400
Local flexibility and autonomy at the school
level
Indicator: % of primary schools which have    Baseline: 0%                               100%
functioning SIP Management Committees         Target EOP: 70%

1
 (Actual/Latest estimates date - Year 2003, except when otherwise indicated)

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Enhance cognitive and social development of
children in ECCE

# of ECCE Trainers/ Facilitators selected,    MTR Actual: 24                              59 (25 Trainers, 9 Facilitators, and 25
placed, and trained                           Target EOP: 55                             Parent Outreach Workers)

# of ECCE Teachers pre-trained                MTR Actual: 181                                350
                                              Target EOP: 650


NCECCE established and operating              Baseline: 0                                Established in 1997


# of school directors and senior teachers     MTR: 291                                      474 (two-year program)
trained in the B.Ed. Program                  Target EOP: 450


# of schools that selected library books and  Baseline: 0                                  476
were provided with them                       MTR: 476
                                              Target EOP: 476




                                                                - 27 -

# of curricular areas with a reformed and      Baseline: 0                    5
piloted curriculum                             MTR: 4
                                               Target EOP: 5


# of poor students that have received          Baseline: 0                     109,600
textbooks                                      MTR: 53,000
                                               Target EOP: 75,000


# of ECCE Centers in poor communities built Baseline: 0                        25
and furnished                                  MTR: 23
                                               Target EOP: 50


# of ECCE Centers expanded and                 Baseline: 0                     32
refurbished                                    MTR: 18
                                               Target EOP: 50


# of new and reconstructed primary schools     Baseline: 0                     23
                                               MTR: 6
                                               Target EOP: 23


# of refurbished and remodeled primary         Baseline: 0                     2
schools                                        MTR: 0
                                               Target EOP: 3


# of new secondary schools built               Baseline: 0                     3
                                               MTR: 0
                                               Target EOP: 3-4
# of schools trained to produce a SIP (round Baseline: 0                       477
1)                                             MTR: 116
                                               Target EOP: 483


# of schools that received direct transfers of Baseline: 0                     477 (Round 1) including 163 schools with
funds to develop SIPs                          MTR: 73                      Round 2.
                                               Target EOP: 483

1End of project
At the time of the loan, there were 483 functional schools. When the SIP program was implemented, six schools
had closed.




                                                               - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                     Appraisal Revised               Actual           Percent of
Component                                            Estimate      Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
 A. Increasing ECCE Quality & Access
       Upgrading Quality                             2.63          0.78              1.05             40%
       Increasing Access                             6.21          2.17              2.07             33%
 Sub-Total                                           8.84          2.95              3.12             35%
 B. Improving Educational Quality
       Classroom Instruction and Curriculum
Strgth.                                              6.17          3.06              1.80             29%
       Textbooks and Instructional Materials         12.15         3.30              7.48             62%
Sub-Total                                            18.32         6.36              9.28             51%
 C. Upgrading the Physical Environment
       School Construction and Reconstruction        47.54         25.85             29.23            61%
       Upgrading Existing School Facilities          10.45         6.20              8.98             86%
       Secondary Schools Pilot                       21.91         16.8              15.20            69%
       School-Based Maintenance Grants               0.00          2.54              2.62             NA
Sub-Total                                            79.90         51.39             56.03            70%
 D Education Management Strengthening
       Management Decentralization                   4.49          2.54              2.44             54%
       Reform        Sector          - Monitoring and
Evaluation                                           1.21          0.02              0.08             7%
       School-Based Management Strengthening 8.92                  11.93             8.48             95%
       Project Management                            0.00          3.24              2.82             NA
Sub-Total                                            14.62         17.73             13.82            95%
Total (including Contingencies and Taxes)            121.68        78.43             82.25            68%

  Project Cost By Categories (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Planned                     Actual
                                                         Total       ( B a n k L n ) Total ( B a n k L n )
     A . Civil W o r k s
           N e w C o nstruction                          3 7 0 0 0  1 5 0 0 0       3 7 2 9 0 1 8 6 4 5
           Renovations and Extensions                    1 0 0 0 0   4 0 0 0         7334      3 6 6 7
           S m a l l W o r k s                           3 0 0 0     1 7 0 0         0         0
           Design and Supervision                        5 5 0 0     0               6849      3 4 2 5
   S u b-T o t a l                                       5 5 5 0 0  2 0 7 0 0       5 1 4 7 3 2 5 7 3 7
     B . G o o d s
           Textbooks and Reading Books                   8 6 0 0     8 6 0 0         7484      1 7 4 1
           Computer Hardware and Software                2 0 0 0     1 7 0 0         0         0
           C lass Room Furniture                         4 5 0 0     0               1939      1 7 4 5
           Other                                         4 0 0 0     4 0 0 0         3 8 8     349
   S u b-T o t a l                                       1 9 1 0 0  1 4 3 0 0       9811      3 8 3 5
      C. Consultant Services                             5 7 0 0     5 7 0 0         4349      4 3 4 9
      D.   Miscellaneous
           Subprojects
               School Improvement Plans                  7 5 0 0     7 5 0 0         1 1 0 6 6 9 9 5 9
               E C C E P r o p o s a l                   1 5 0 0     1 4 0 0         2982      2 6 8 4
           Training Grants                               2 2 5 0     0               0         0
           Recurrent Cost                                6 1 2 3     1 4 0 0         2567      1 3 6 7
           N o n -IB R D F i n . Recurrent Cost          2 3 5 7 7  0               0          0
   S u b-T o t a l                                       4 0 9 5 0  1 0 3 0 0       1 6 6 1 5 1 4 0 1 0
         TOTAL (including Contingencies)                 1 2 1 2 5 0 51000           8 2 2 4 8 47931




                                                                 - 29 -

 Project Cost By Procurement Arrangements ­ P lanned (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        IC B               N C B         O ther         N. B. F.      Total
     A. Civil Works
            New Construction                                            37000                                                         37000
            Renovations and Extensions                                                     10000                                      10000
            Small Works                                                                                  3000                         3000
            Design and Supervision                                                                                      5500          5500
               Total                                                    37000              10000         3000           5500          55500
                  (of which Bank)                                       (15000)            (4000)        (1700)         ( 0 )         (20700)
     B. Goods
            Textbooks and Reading Books                                 7100               1500                                       8600
            Computer Hardware and Software                                                               2000                         2000
            Class Room Furniture                                                                                        4500          4500
            Other                                                                                        400 0                        4000
               Total                                                    7100               1500          6000           4500          19100
                  (of which Bank)                                       (7100)             (1500)        (5700)         ( 0 )         (14300)
      C . Consultant Services                                                                            5700                         5700
                  (of which Bank)                                                                        (5700)                       (5700)
      D .    Miscellaneous
            S ubprojects
               School Improvement Plans                                                                  7500                         7500
               ECCE Proposal                                                                             1500                         1500
            T raining Grants                                                                                            2250          2250
            Recurrent Cost                                                                               6123                         6123
            N o n -IBRD Fin. Recurrent Cost                                                                             23577         23577
               Total                                                                                     15123          25827         40950
                  (of which Bank)                                                                        (10,300)       ( 0 )         (10300)
 Total Planned                                                          44100              11500         29823          35827         121250
 (of W h ich Bank Planned)                                              (22100)            (5500)        (23400)        ( 0 )         (51000)
 *May not add up to total project cost due to rounding.

-Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.
-"Other" includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project coordinating unit, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to managing the project and re-lending project funds to local government units.

 P r o j e c t C o s t B y P r o c u r e m e n t A r r a n g e m e n t s ­ A c t u a l (U S $ m i l l i o n e q u i v a l e n t )

                                                                      I C B            N C B           O t h e r        N . B . F .       T o t a l
    A . C ivil W o r k s
           N e w C o n s t r u c t i o n                              3 7 2 9 0                                                     3 7 2 9 0
           R e n o v a t i o n s a n d E x t e n s i o n s                             7 3 3 4                                      7 3 3 4
           S m a ll W o r k s                                                                       0                               0
           D e s i g n a n d S u p e r v i s i o n                                     6 8 4 9                                      6 8 4 9
               T o t a l                                              3 7 2 9 0        1 4 1 8 3    0                   0           5 1 4 7 3
                 ( o f w h i c h B a n k )                            ( 1 8 6 4 5 )    ( 7 0 9 2 )  ( 0 )               ( 0 )       ( 2 5 7 3 7 )
    B . G o o d s
           T e x t b o o k s a n d R e a d i n g B o o k s            1 3 0 0          6 1 8 4                                      7 4 8 4
           C o m p u t e r H a r d w a r e a n d S o f t w a r e                                    0                               0
           C l a s s R o o m F u r n i t u r e                                         9 5 5        9 8 4                           1 9 3 9
           O t h e r                                                                                3 8 8                           3 8 8
               T o t a l                                              1 3 0 0          7 1 3 9      1 3 7 2                         9 8 1 1
                 ( o f w h i c h B a n k )                            ( 1 3 0 0 )      ( 2 1 8 6 )  ( 3 4 9 )                       ( 3 8 3 5 )
     C . C o n s u l t a n t S e r v i c e s                                                        4 3 4 9                         4 3 4 9
                 (o f w h i c h B a n k )                                                           ( 4 3 4 9 )                     ( 4 3 4 9 )
     D .    M i s c e l l a n e o u s
           S u b p r o j e c t s
               S c h o o l I m p r o v e m e n t P l a n s                                          1 1 0 6 6                       1 1 0 6 6
               E C C E P r o p o s a l                                                              2 9 8 2                         2 9 8 2
           T r a i n i n g G r a n t s                                                              0                               0
           R e c u r r e n t C o s t                                                                2 5 6 7                         2 5 6 7
           N o n -I B R D F i n . R e c u r r e n t C o s t                                         0                               0
               T o t a l                                              0                0            1 6 6 1 5                       1 6 6 1 5
                 ( o f w h i c h B a n k )                                                          ( 1 4 0 1 0 )                   ( 1 4 0 1 0 )
 ( o f W h i c h B a n k P l a n n e d )                              3 8 5 9 0        2 1 3 2 2    2 2 3 3 6                       8 2 2 4 8
 ( o f W h i c h B a n k A c t u a l )                                ( 1 9 9 4 5 )    ( 9 2 7 8 )  ( 1 8 7 0 8 )                   ( 4 7 9 3 1 )
 * M a y n o t a d d u p t o t o t a l p r o j e c t c o s t d u e t o r o u n d i n g .




                                                                                           - 30 -

                                       Project Financing by Component

                                                         Appraisal    Revised     Actual     Percent of
 Component                                               Estimate     Estimate    Estimate   Appraisal
  A. Increasing ECCE Quality & Access
        Upgrading Quality                                2.63         0.78        1.05       40%
        Increasing Access                                6.21         2.17        2.07       33%
  Sub-Total                                              8.84         2.95        3.12       35%
  B. Improving Educational Quality
        Classroom Instruction and Curriculum Strgth.     6.17         3.06        1.80       29%
        Textbooks and Instructional Materials            12.15        3.30        7.48       62%
 Sub-Total                                               18.32        6.36        9.28       51%
  C. Upgrading the Physical Environment
        School Construction and Reconstruction           47.54        25.85       29.23      61%
        Upgrading Existing School Facilities             10.45        6.20        8.98       86%
        Secondary Schools Pilot                          21.91        16.8        15.20      69%
        School-Based Maintenance Grants                  0.00         2.54        2.62       N A
 Sub-Total                                               79.90        51.39       56.03      70%
  D Education Management Strengthening
        Management Decentralization                      4.49         2.54        2.44       54%
        Reform Sector - Monitoring and Evaluation        1.21         0.02        0.08       7%
        School-Based Management Strengthening            8.92         11.93       8.48       95%
        Project Management                               0.00         3.24        2.82       N A
 Sub-Total                                               14.62        17.73       13.82      95%
 Total (including Contingencies and Taxes)               121.68       78.43       82.25      68%


Project Financing by Component (in US$million equivalent)`
                                                 Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
Component                                          IBRD     Gov't    IBRD         Gov't     IBRD         Gov't
 A. Increasing ECCE Quality & Access
     Upgrading Quality                                1.80     0.83      0.72         0.33     40%            40%
     Increasing Access                                1.95     4.26      0.65         1.42     33%            33%
          Sub-Total                                   3.75     5.09      1.37         1.75     37%            34%
 B. Improving Educational Quality
     Classroom Instruction and Curriculum Strgth.     3.20     2.97      0.94         0.86     29%            29%
     Textbooks and Instructional Materials           11.80     0.35      1.71         5.77     14%         1649%
          Sub-Total                                  15.00     3.32      2.65         6.63     18%           200%
 C. Uprgrading the Physical Environment
     School Construction and Reconstruction          11.20     36.34    18.70        10.53    167%            29%
     Upgrading Existing School Facilities             4.00     6.45      3.67         5.31     92%            82%
     Secondary Schools Pilot                          4.50     17.41     5.10        10.10    113%            58%
     School-Based Maintenance Grants                  0.00     0.00      2.62         0.00      0%             0%
          Sub-Total                                  19.70     60.20    30.09        25.94    153%            43%
 D Education Management Strengthening
     Management Decentralization                      3.60     0.89      2.44         0.00     68%             0%
     Reform Sector - Monitoring and Evaluation        0.75     0.46      0.08         0.00     11%             0%
     School-Based Management Strenthening             8.20     0.72      8.48         0.00    103%             0%
     Project Administration                           0.00     0.00      2.82         0.00                     0%
          Sub-Total                                  12.55     2.07     13.82         0.00    110%             0%

  Total (including Contingencies and Taxes)          51.00     70.68    47.93        34.32     94%            49%




                                                      - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Lending
              01/01/1995               8    SR. INSTITUTIONAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); DIVISION
                                            CHIEF (1); EDUCATION
                                            PROJECT ADVISOR (1);
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                                            ARCHITECTS CONSULTANTS
                                            (2); CURRICULUM &
                                            INSTRUCTION EXPERT (1);
              05/01/1995               8    SR. INSTITUTIONAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); DIVISION
                                            CHIEF (1); EDUCATION
                                            PROJECT ADVISOR (1);
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                                            ARCHITECTS CONSULTANTS
                                            (2); CURRICULUM &
                                            INSTRUCTION EXPERT (1);

 Supervision

              11/26/1996               3    FINAN. M. SPECIALIST (1); H.     S               S
                                            R. SPECIALIST (1);
                                            MONITORING AND
                                            EVALUAT (1)
              06/27/1997               5    FACILITATOR (1); TASK            S               S
                                            ASSISTANT (1); MISSION
                                            LEADER (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              10/26/1997               2    FORMER TASK MANAGER              S               S
                                            (1); MISSION LEADER (1)
              02/18/1998               5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1); EARLY
                                            CHILDHOOD SPEC. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1)
              12/11/1998               3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              04/29/1999               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
                                            EDUCATION REFORM (1)
              11/17/2000               1    T.M. AND EDU SPEC. (1)           S               S
              06/08/2001               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)
              03/22/2002               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                            (1); JPA (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             - 33 -
                                            SPECIALIST (1)

               03/22/2002              3    TASK MANAGER (1); EDUC.           S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); JPA (1)
               04/04/2003              4    TASK MANAGER (1); ECD             S    S
                                            POLICY (1); SCHOOL-BASED
                                            MANAGEMEN (1); JPA (1)


 ICR
               7/6/2003               2     SR. EDUCATION                     S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               10/3/2003              2     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Lending                                  97                    486,845.18
  Supervision                              54                    270,691.13
  ICR                                     2.3                     11,415.12
  Total                                  147                     738,951.43




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Alleyne, Michael H. McD., 1999. Project Implementation Review of the Trinidad and Tobago Basic
       Education Project, (World Bank consultancy).

Construction management company, November 2003. The World Bank FBEP civil works component,
       Final Report.

Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, September 2003. Proposed Standards for
       Regulating Early Childhood Services.

Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, Ministry of Education/ World Bank, January 1996.
       Fourth Basic Education Project, Implementation Manual.

High Scope Educational Research Foundation, July 2000. The Trinidad and Tobago Early Childhood
       Project, report of the mid term review.

Inter American Development Bank, November 1999. Secondary Education Modernization Programme,
       Implementation Manual.

Ministry of Education, 2003. Draft Proposal for the Institutionalization of School Improvement Plans.

Ministry of Education, Education Planning Division and Education Project Coordination Unit, October
       2003. Summary output indicators for the Fourth Basic Education Project.

Ministry of Education EPCU, Implementation Plan of Early Childhood Care and Education Centres,
       October 2003, Mr. Simon Toussaint.

Ministry of Education, July 2003. National Consultation Report on Restructuring and Decentralization of
       the Ministry of Education, Restructuring and Decentralization Action Unit.

Ministry of Education, December 26, 2002. Secondary Education Modernization Programme,
       Restructuring and decentralization of the Ministry of Education, Ralph Romain.

Ministry of Education, Division of Educational Research and Evaluation, Report on Student's performance
       in the national tests 1998-2001, Mathematics and Language Arts.

Ministry of Education Permanent Secretary, Circular Memorandum of January 9 ,2001: "Bachelor in
       Education (Education Administration) training program.

UWI, St Augustine, Training Programmes for Principals, B.Ed. degree, Faculty of Education.

World Bank, December 9, 2003. Trinidad and Tobago CAS Progress report.

World Bank, Project Status Reports, Trinidad and Tobago Basic Education Project, #1-17, 1997-2003.

World Bank LCSHD paper (under the auspices of a WB development grant), September 2002. The
       challenge of School autonomy: supporting principals, Alberto Rodriguez and Kate Hovde.




                                                 - 37 -

World Bank, February 10, 2000. Amendment to Loan Agreement Loan No. 3956, Republic of Trinidad
      and Tobago Basic Education Project.

World Bank, Aide Memoire Mid-term Review Mission, November 8, 1999.

World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, October 26, 1995, Trinidad and Tobago Basic Education Project.

World Bank, Loan Agreement, Loan No. 3956, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago Basic Education
      Project.




                                                - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Executive Summary

In the early 1990's, the Fourth Basic Education Project (FBEP), was conceptualized in an economic and
social milieu which in many ways saw the neglect of a number of needed educational reforms in the areas
of physical upgrade of school plants, which were mainly dilapidated and unsuitable for teaching and
learning; inadequate teacher training and low salary remuneration, which fostered lack of motivation and
poor teaching habits, on the part of teachers; low quality and limited access to ECCE places for
disadvantaged groups, limited secondary school places for primary school graduates and low levels of
achievement of students at the primary school level. The Fourth Basic Education Project addressed these
deficiencies in the education sector and comprised the following project components:

l Increasing the quality and access to early childhood care and education by preschool age (3-4) pupils of
    low-income and socially disadvantaged families;
l Improving teacher and learning quality at the primary school level;
l Upgrading the physical environment of teaching and learning at the preschool, primary, and secondary
    levels of the education sector
l Enhance curriculum revision and curriculum delivery in the traditional core subject areas;
l Introduction of school-based management programmes to assist principals, teachers, parents to
    diagnose the needs of their own schools, design and implement school improvement plans;
l Initiate the process of decentralization of the Ministry of Education operations;
l Strengthen the testing, evaluation and assessment of student performance.


The Fourth Basic Education Project laid the foundation to facilitate a number of the strategic goals and
plans of the Ministry of Education especially in its thrust towards the modernization of its curricula,
decentralization of Ministry of Education operations and development of the holistic child as the major
outcome and output of the education system.

At the end of the Implementation stage of the Fourth Basic Education Project there were a number of new
and revised policy directives, which emerged as a result of project outcomes and achievements. These
included:

l Establishment of a Decentralization Unit;
l Establishment of a stronger National ECCE Council and Unit;
l Revised and enhanced curricula for the teaching and learning in the core subject areas at the primary
    school level, namely Science, Mathematics, Language Arts;
l Provision of free textbooks for all primary school children;
l Improved and upgraded physical school plants, thus creating greater access to more school places;
l Increased number of university trained principals and senior teachers capable of undertaking
    administrative, pedagogical, curricular, decentralization and community participation programmes and
    goals;
l Announcement of new Government policy for the achievement of universal preschool education for all
    in Trinidad and Tobago.

The GORTT has demonstrated its support and commitment to the human resource development and
education of its citizenry by providing in 2003, the largest share of the national budget to the Education
Sector.



                                                   - 39 -

The Fourth Basic Education Project, in the laying of a solid base through its project outcomes, can be seen
to play both a facilitating role and as a catalyst to the Ministry of Education's new strategic plans and
policies over the next five (5) years, 2002-2006.

While the Fourth Basic Education Project achieved most of its intended project goals and objectives over a
seven (7) year period, the imminent closure of World Bank funding at the end of 2003 will necessitate the
discussion of the way forward and project sustainability of the project outputs and lessons learnt.

At the last World Bank's supervision mission in early October 2003, discussions with Ministry of
Education's officials included the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report as well as the
submission of a letter of intent to the World Bank for another loan initiative, namely a request for a Fifth
Basic Education Loan.

The last supervision mission in October 2003 to discuss the preparation and submission of the Implement
Completion Report was deemed very useful and informative and assisted the Government in understanding
the purpose of the ICR in documenting lessons learnt and project achievements. Experiences from other
countries were shared as a guide to assist the GORTT in the preparation of this most important `close out'
document.

The GORTT is committed to the transformation of the Education Sector to a more technically driven and
Modernized System to help prepare its citizens for the Twenty-first century. The underlying premise and
philosophy being that increased access to quality education would contribute to a more equitable driven
income distribution.

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW:

In September 1995 the GORTT negotiated a US$51 million loan from the World Bank to support its social
reforms in the Education Sector. The Loan was approved by the World Bank and the Loan Agreement was
signed by the Minister of Finance on 7th March 1996. Loan effectiveness was achieved on 27th November
1996. The Fourth Basic Education Project was estimated to be US$121.65 million, of which US$71.69
million was to be contributed by the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT) while
$51 million was to be loaned by the IBRD.

After the World Bank MTR in November 1999, there was agreement between both the IBRD and the
GORTT that the Project should be redefined in keeping with the realities of the implementation pace and
reflection of the GORTT`s then strategic priorities. In April 2000, the Cabinet of the GORTT agreed to
the Revised Fourth Basic Education Project with a revised total cost estimate of US$ 78.43 million
consisting of a GORTT contribution of US$ 27.43 million and an unchanged IBRD contribution of US$ 51
million.

The redefined and adjusted scope of the FBEP continued to build upon the successes experienced in the
civil works, curriculum revision, teacher training and school based management project components

The Implementation Agency of the FBEP was the EPCU, which the GORTT established in 1995 to
function outside the normal administrative and bureaucratic confines and constraints of a typical
Government ministry. The duration for the implementation of the project activities under the EPCU was
for a period of seven (7) years 1996-2003.




                                                    - 40 -

The Fourth Basic Education Project (FBEP) was intended to provide a framework of support to the
GORTT to enhance the quality of education, to reduce disparity in the Education System and to achieve an
effective and efficient management of the Education Sector.

After seven (7) years of Implementation, the FBEP has completed most of its targeted objectives, with a
resultant implementation rate of 93.9% of the allocated budget being expended, to date.

Concerns raised by the World Bank over the years, which posed challenges to project implementation are
highlighted below:

l The disbursement lag which has been one of the chief concerns of the World *Bank during the years of
    project implementation;
l The slow rate of implementation of the construction of ECCE Centres. The GORTT informed the
    World Bank of its new policy directive in the ECCE area;
l The limited budget allocation of funds to the FBEP by the Ministry of Finance at the start of each year
    posed a problem for the project unit in balancing funds;
l The lack of technical staff to implement the project in an effective manner.


The World Bank noted, as in previous supervision missions, that the lack of adequate EPCU staff has
presented a serious obstacle to successful implementation and reflects a breach of Section 3.05 (b) of the
Loan Agreement. The streamlining of recruitment processes discussed in the last mission has not occurred.
The Government indicated that many contracts ended in 2002, making it difficult to hire qualified personnel
given that the duration of the project is short.

Although the Project experienced a number of delays in key areas, project implementation was shown to be
slow but steady. Areas experiencing delays in 2002/2003 have been:

l Absence of key technical expertise especially in the area of civil works.
l Construction of the remaining 43 ECCE Centres.
l Procurement of Furniture and Equipment.


During the latter half of 2002, project implementation seemed to have slowed, despite this being the critical
time for bringing Project Activities to finalization and setting goals to achieve original Project Objectives
stated in the Loan Agreement.

The GORTT fully supported the Ministry of Education's (MOE) thrust towards modernization and
endorses the MOE's strategic plans to attain its goals as it seeks to transform the Educational System
through its planned revolutionary educational goals/reforms.

PROJECT RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENT

The Fourth Basic achieved many of its project objectives except in three (3) component areas, two of which
were excised in 1999, namely:

l Reform and Decentralization of the Ministry of Education operations. This involved funding on a
    Decentralization Study and recommendations
l Testing and Evaluation/Assessments
l Construction of ECCE Centres




                                                    - 41 -

Component A: ECCE QUALITY AND ACCESS (US$ 8.59 MILLION)
OBJECTIVE: Upgrading ECCE Quality (US$ 2.46 million)

l Establishment of a National Council for Early Childhood Care and Education NCECCE.
l In service training by ECCE training Institutions for field officers and regional facilitators and 300
  untrained ECCE teachers
l Pre-service training for 350 new ECCE teachers
l Employment of ECCE facilitators to register all preschool centers
l Employment of 25 Parent Outreach Workers (POW's) to work with parents at home to develop healthy
  childcare practices

RESULTS/ ACHIEVEMENTS

l The NCECCE was established and furnished in 1997 and is still operational
l In service training provided by a NGO for 75 enrolled ECCE teachers
l Pre-service training provided by a training school for 190 new ECCE teachers. 120 ECCE Teachers
  for Private Centres were included in the training in October, 2002
l 1398 teachers trained by 9 Field facilitators and 25 trainers through the training of trainers workshops
l 25 POWs employed to train parents in childcare practices


OBJECTIVE: Increasing Access (US$ 6.12 Million)

l Construction and furnishing of 50 new ECCE Centres to increase access for children in poor
  communities
l upgrading/rehabilitation and furnishing of 50 existing ECCE Centres       to bring them up to acceptable
  operating standards
l an additional 100 existing ECCE Centres to be provided with furniture, equipment, instructional
  materials

RESULTS

l 25 out of the targeted 50 new ECCE Centres constructed and furnished ;
l 32 out of the targeted 50 existing ECCE Centres rehabilitated and furnished out of 100 existing ECCE
  Centres furnished

Component B: TEACHING AND LEARNING QUALITY (US$18.20 MILLION)
OBJECTIVE: Classroom Instruction and Curriculum Strengthening (US$ 5.93 MILLION),
l Review and Revision of existing curricula of traditional core subject areas, namely, Mathematics,
  Science, Language Arts, Social Studies
l Training of trainers (TOT) workshops to study, recommend and design appropriate curriculum delivery
  and assessment methods.
l to support the professionalization of primary school staff, the project would provide a part-time
  university programme for school principals, vice-principals and senior teachers
l Pilot Project in the teaching of Spanish at the Primary level


RESULTS

l Curricula reviewed and revised in the areas of: Mathematics, Science, Language Arts, and Social
  Studies. Pilot Spanish project implemented


                                                  - 42 -

l 474 principals, vice-principals and senior teachers received B. Ed., UWI.
l Training of Trainers Workshop conducted for 1398 teachers


OBJECTIVE: TEXTBOOKS AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS (US$ 12.28 MILLION)

The principal objectives of the Textbooks and Instructional Materials aspect of the Fourth Basic Education
Project were to:
l Reduce the cost of education for needy families through the provision of textbooks to their students;
l Provide schools with quality instructional materials;
l Enhance teacher capability for designing and developing classroom instructional materials; and
l Promote the use of appropriate instructional materials in classrooms


RESULTS

Provision of Textbooks: This component would assist the Ministry of Education in selecting and
recommending quality textbooks. Two (2) trenches of textbooks have been provided to 35% of the total
primary school population defined as `needy' in 1999 and in 2002. In 1999 and 2002, approximately
221,000 textbooks in Mathematics, Science and Language Arts, were provided to 53,000 needy students,
respectively, while the rest of the student population had to purchase their own textbooks. By September
2003, the Ministry of Education's new initiative to provide free primary school textbooks to all children
was achieved. The Fourth Basic Education Project participated in this initiative, by providing textbooks in
Mathematics and Reading for approximately 600,000 needy students.

Because of the imminent closure of the Fourth Basic Education Project, the purchase of these books to be
finance by Government funds. This was done due the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
new policy decision to provide free textbooks to all primary school students.

Provision of Library Books: Library books were supplied at a cost of US$ 2.42 million to all primary
schools in 1998 and 1999.

Component C: CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT:

The Civil Works Component consisted of three subcomponents, which sought to reduce school
overcrowding and provide more school places at both the primary and secondary school levels.

Construction/Furnishing of Primary Schools: The school construction got off to a slow start in 1996 but by
1997 construction of schools had started and continued to gain momentum as the project was ably assisted
by the Construction Management Firm. Under the revised Fourth Basic Education Project the project
targeted the construction and furnishing of twenty-six (26) primary schools scheduled for completion by
September 2003.

RESULTS

Twenty-three (23) Primary Schools out of a targeted 26 were completed and furnished with two (2) other
primary schools still under construction and carded for completion by the end of November 2003. One (1)
school was dropped from the FBEP there was no longer any demographic demand for the school.

Construction/Furnishing of Secondary Schools: The project targeted three (3) secondary schools to be
constructed and furnished.     The objective was to lay the groundwork for access of primary school


                                                    - 43 -

graduates to the secondary level in selected parts of the country. The proposed sites of the secondary
schools were to be located in areas where the transition rate to the secondary level is below the national
average.

RESULTS

All three (3) secondary schools were completed and furnished: Guaico Secondary; Mason Hall Secondary;
and Cunupia High School

Early Childhood Education: The ECCE Component was guided by the following objectives:
l To improve the social and cognitive readiness for learning of preschool age children of disadvantaged
     families
l To increase access to ECCE Centers for some 2,250 children in poor communities,
l To rehabilitate 50 existing ECCE Centers and bring them up to acceptable operating standards,
l To implement Parent Outreach programme in order to increase the access of adults to the programme
     and so improve child-rearing practices

RESULTS

Fifty-seven (57) ECCE Centres out of one hundred (100) were built and furnished. Of the fifty-seven (57),
thirty-two (32) were upgraded and twenty-five (25) were newly constructed. A remaining balance of
forty-three (43) ECCE Centres were not constructed and furnished (eighteen {18} existing and twenty-five
{25} new ECCE Centres.

The GORTT has decided to conduct a needs assessment in the poorest communities as it was noted that the
poor communities did not have land tenure. As a result construction has been halted with no new
construction occurring since September 2001. Nineteen (19) communities, including five (5) in Tobago,
were tendered and were poised to move forward for construction. However, the GORTT has informed the
Bank that ECCE policy is currently under review with a view to a new and expanded approach, which is
expected to achieve both universal ECCE and specifically target poorer communities. It is expected that all
already tendered Communities will be given some priority in the new policy. As a result, loan proceeds
originally allocated for this component will not be utilized. The Bank stressed that Trinidad and Tobago
has an international example of both a community-driven ECCE initiative and a private-public partnership
in the National Council for Early Childhood Care and Education (NCECCE). Both of these innovative
characteristics should be built upon as the expanded effort to support ECCE is developed.

SCHOOL ­BASED MANAGEMENT PROGRAMMES

The School Improvement Plan (SIP) and the School Management Programme (SMG) programmes were
seen as innovative pilot projects, which empowered principals to improve their school environment for the
benefit of students, parents and community.        The Ministry of Education intends to absorb these
programmes into its normal operations and these programmes would also undergrad the decentralization
and modernization processes.

RESULTS

School Maintenance Grants (SMG). The target of disbursing School Maintenance Grants (SMG) to all
four hundred and seventy-seven (477) primary schools has been achieved and field visits and interviews
with School Principals and Teachers indicate that the SMGs have had a positive impact on school facilities,


                                                   - 44 -

management and efficiency. Repairs were under-taken in three areas of priority, namely, Electrical/
Plumbing and Minor Structural repairs. Allocations ranged from $5000- $50,000). Workshops were
conducted with school principals to ensure the technical and financial guidelines were adhered to.

School Improvement Plans (SIP).            The SIP Programme has advanced strongly and consistently
throughout project implementation. The Bank was informed that the MOE intends to review and modify
the accountability guidelines in light of the findings of an Internal Audit, which was provided to the Bank.
While the World Bank agrees that the monitoring role of the MOE should be strengthened, it stressed that
the continuity of the SIPs programme is critical in maintaining the impressive community-level capacity,
involvement and momentum that have been achieved during the project.

RESULTS

SIP grants were provided to 477 functional schools in the amount of $90,000 in Round 1 ­ and 163 schools
who completed Round I, in the amount of $60,000. The SIP Round I and II Programmes were well
supported and appreciated by the school supervisors, principals, teachers, parents and school communities
as it support not only school improvement but assisted in team building / cooperation between all
stakeholders of the school environment. Workshops on technical and financial guidelines were conducted
for all school principals to ensure accountability of Government funds were adhered to.           Follow-up
workshops were also conducted for new school principals, when the first trained principal retired and had
to hand-over the projects.

Major Constraints to Project Implementation: The main area, which constrained the implementation of the
FBEP, was:

l Inadequate attention to the management of the construction of ECCE Centers;
l Limitation of a ceiling cost to the construction of ECCE Centers;
l Poor supervision and lack of required skills by the Community Boards who were appointed to oversee
    the construction of ECCE Centers;
l Small contractors hired by the Community Boards to build ECCE Centers usually faced financial
    difficulties when delayed construction further;
l Poor communities who wanted ECCE Centers had no land tenure to qualify for the approval of a
    center;
l Inadequate monitoring of construction and management of primary and secondary schools by both
    consultants and project management firm, the result of which was that schools were at times not
    delivered ON TIME;
l Insufficient funds provided by the Ministry of Finance to the Project Unit at the start of each fiscal
    year;
l Heavy turnover and contraction of staff in key technical positions and delays in having them filled;
l Slow response by the MOE Human Resource Division in the finalization o staff contracts and terms
    and conditions;
l Lack of collaboration between Managers of the Project Staff and Divisional Heads, not due to lack of
    Interest on the part of individuals but because there was little time to do so.

Bank Performance

The GORTT is satisfied that the World Bank representatives demonstrated support and commitment to the
successful implementation of the Fourth Basic Education Project. The introduction of thresholds to guide
and keep the project `on track' was a successful intervention mechanism.


                                                     - 45 -

On another level, collaboration between the Project Unit and the World Bank could have been better, if
more time was allotted for providing greater interaction on project activities and issues/problems which
emerged during the implementation stages. The role of the Task Manager could have been more supportive
to the Project Unit rather than supervision visits geared towards discussion of achievement of thresholds
and obtaining of `satisfactory rating' by the World Bank. Missions could have been longer at times to
advise the Project Unit and the GORTT on areas of weakness and sharing of the information could have
lead to resolution of implementation difficulties, however both the EPCU and the MOE found the missions
to be useful in guiding the project implementation overall.

Borrower's Performance

The GORTT performance during project implementation was supportive and committed to the objectives of
the FBEP. The GORTT fully endorsed the FBEP throughout the implementation stages and saw it as a
catalyst to many of its planned educational reforms. There was always the political will to ensure that the
project achieved its targets.    It may be worth mention that during the seven (7) years of project
implementation, there were five (5) Permanent Secretaries and six (6) Project Coordinators managing the
Project.

At the World Bank Mid-Term Review in 1999, recognizing key project execution weaknesses and
implementation capacity due to a slow start-up in the Civil Works Component, the project goals were
re-visited and re-adjusted to ensure the Project met its most important objectives. Most importantly, the
GORTT continued to build upon its previous project successes and introduced changes that greatly
enhanced the overall quality of the project and put in place valuable lessons learnt to ensure project
sustainability.

LESSONS LEARNT. The main lessons leaned through the Implementation of the FBEP are:

CIVIL WORKS: PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS

Lessons learned are categorized as follows:
l Sites Selection
l Demographic studies that indicate where schools to be constructed are located must reflect recent data
    and not old data, when demand for the school could have been no longer viable and relevant
l Site selection should be governed by the physical characteristics of the site such as size, soil type
l Sites selected should be free of any encumbrances and sufficient time should be allowed for
    compulsory acquisition
l Land surveys must be carried out on selected sites to verify boundaries and ensure no encroachments
    by neighbors
l Sites should be chosen to maximize the use of the school and minimize the long term problems
    associated with heavy civil works

HIRING OF DESIGN CONSULTANTS

l There should be a clearly defined hierarchy with respect to roles of the client (MOE), the Project
    Managers, the Design Consultant team and the Contractor;
l The Project Management Team should have been empowered to properly represent the Client and be
    made accountable for the delivery of the Programme;
l The Project Management Team was hired after selection of Design Consultants



                                                    - 46 -

DESIGN CONSULTANT TEAM ISSUES

l Before variations are issued to the contractor, they must be quantified and approved by the Client,
   (MOE/EPCU) and Project Managers
l The Design Team should pay more attention to the verification of the physical conditions and
   characteristics of the selected sites prior to the design and tendering processes
l There should be some mechanism by which Design Team Performance can be evaluated prior to award
   of more schools granted to them
l Design Consultants are being paid administration and supervision fees and should be held accountable
   for any cost overruns or time slippage

FINANCIAL LESSONS

l Late payments to contractors should be avoided so as to prevent the accruing of interest fees;
l The issues of overtime payment for accelerated works should be considered as a contingency payment;
l The timely completion of schools could be delayed by untimely payment to contractors
l Contractors should be penalized for delays caused by poor management of construction and liquidated
   damages applied for delinquent contractors
l Design development and contractual obligations should be closely reviewed and monitored on a
   continuous basis to ensure that Client needs and expectations are achieved

ECCE CENTRES CONSTRUCTION

An evaluation of the performance of the construction of ECCE Centers indicated that the objectives of the
Component were not being fully met. Whereas 57 out of the targeted 100 Centers were constructed and
furnished, it was noted that the poorer communities were under-represented. Reasons posed were:
l the possession of land tenure was the main criterion which exempted the poor communities from
   benefiting from the program
l The construction appears to be predominantly focused on the western side of the island and the eastern
   side of the island and Tobago did not benefit significantly.
l The perceived role of the community boards was not as effective in reality.          Boards did not take
   decisions of a financial nature and appeared too docile in decision making;
l The financial ceiling set by the GORTT of $250,000 (Trinidad) and $300,000 (Tobago) became
   insufficient to construct the prototype design in a climate of a construction boom in the country
l There is need for the GORTT to conduct a need assessment of ECCE sites and to assist the poorer
   communities with land, if necessary to create access and availability of places to poor children.
l In order to ensure there is Universal preschool for all children 3-4 years old, there is need for new
   policy directives and a plan of action to achieve this.

Administrative Lessons

l The FBEP suffered from an absence of key technical staff to guide the project in the areas of Accounts,
   and Civil Engineering One key reason was insufficient attention paid to offering adequate remuneration
   to attract qualified staff.
l Human Resources Matters were not given high priority thus demotivating existing staff. Contracts and
   Terms and Conditions took too long to be finalized.
l Collaboration between Project Unit and Divisional Managers of the MOE could have been better. The
   FBEP was conceptualized with heavy involvement by the MOE divisional heads. This did not take


                                                      - 47 -

    place as much as was expected. The MOE needed to "own " the project, which would have facilitated
    project sustainability.
l There was need for additional staff to monitor the project activities at field level. Reliance on the MOE
    existing staff who were few in number rendered the project "unable " to respond to emergencies and led
    to delays in implementation.
l The Project Unit was a part of the MOE but the MOE did not understand its role in the implementation
    process

Project Sustainability/Future Initiatives

The MOE has found the FBEP to be a necessary and timely intervention in assisting it to lay certain
foundation blocks to its strategic plans and goals. Project sustainability has already borne fruits in the
following areas:      Decentralization; ECCE; School-Based Management Programmes; Curriculum
Review/Revision; ECCE Teacher Training; National Council on ECCE(NCECC); Textbooks; School
Boards; Fifth Basic Education Project

In summary, the following initiatives have been put in place:
l A Decentralization Unit has been established and staffed- the school-based management programmes
    have played an important role in this process.
l The GORTT has begun to put in place the process and plans to incorporate the SIPs and SMG's into
    its future operations
l The Decentralization Study is now being reviewed for implementation of its recommendations
l Curriculum revision commenced under the FBEP with the traditional core subject areas will continue in
    other subject areas
l Free textbooks are now provided for all primary school children
l The NCECCE has been commissioned to provide guidance and policy direction to the MOE on all
    ECCE issues
l Universal Preschooling announced in 2003 which would build upon the successes of the FBEP;
l The important Role of Community Boards in the administration of ECCE Centers has been recognized
    and the MOE has plans to create Primary and Secondary School Boards in its decentralization Process
l The MOE is committed to building on the successes of the FBEP and has begun discussions with the
    World Bank for the funding of another loan initiative
l The ECCE training provided to ECCE teachers by training institutions (will be continued utilizing
    GORTT's funding).

PROJECT COSTS

Financial Audited Statement for the expenditure and utilization of project funds were submitted annually to
the World Bank since 1998. The most recent Statement was submitted for the period September 2002.
The Audited Statement for the period September 2003 is due on or before March 2004. See Appendix V.

CONCLUSION

The scheduled in accordance with the Loan Agreement whereby completion date for project implementation
of the FBEP was December 31, 2002 continues with counterpart funding until completion of the Project.
The scheduled date for reimbursement of funds was June 30, 2003.

During its seven (7) years of implementation the Project experienced slow but steady momentum. School
Construction commenced in 1997 and the last five (5) Primary Schools are under construction and were


                                                  - 48 -

completed at the end of April 2003. The FBEP has provided a number of educational initiatives that will
assist the MOE in its reform towards `decentralization' and `restructuring'.

The MOE wishes to thank all stakeholders to the project for their inputs and commitment. The Project
staff is to be complimented for the yeoman services rendered despite a number of extenuating
circumstances, which plagued the project, from its inception. The lessons learned should be applied to the
next loan agreement and the MOE is satisfied with the final outcomes of the FBEP.




                                                  - 49 -

- 50 -

